

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 80 (Tuesday, May 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 80 (Tuesday, May 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2846-S2847]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health 
care services for veterans.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to 
the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the 
Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 447

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 447, a bill to 
require reporting on acts of certain foreign countries on Holocaust era 
assets and related issues.


                                 S. 473

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin

[[Page S2847]]

(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 473, a bill the amend 
title 38, United States Code, to make qualification requirements for 
entitlement to Post-9/11 Education Assistance more equitable, to 
improve support of veterans receiving such educational assistance, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of States 
to tax certain income of employees for employment duties performed in 
other States.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to 
amend title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 656

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 656, a bill to help 
individuals receiving disability insurance benefits under title II of 
the Social Security Act obtain rehabilitation services and return to 
the workforce, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 712

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 712, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes 
relating to appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under 
the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend 
the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 765

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 765, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to provide for penalties for the 
sale of any Purple Heart awarded to a member of the Armed Forces.


                                 S. 838

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 838, a bill to amend the 
Truth in Lending Act to include retrofit loans such as property 
assessed clean energy loans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 916

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 916, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act with regard to the provision of emergency 
medical services.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize 
the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 976

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 976, a bill to restore 
States' sovereign rights to enforce State and local sales and use tax 
laws, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 978

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 978, a bill to direct 
the Secretary of Education to establish an award program recognizing 
excellence exhibited by public school system employees providing 
services to students in prekindergarten through higher education.


                                 S. 985

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 985, a bill to prohibit the 
Secretary of the Interior from revising the approved oil and gas 
leasing program for fiscal years 2017 through 2022.


                                 S. 992

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 992, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct an independent review of the 
deaths of certain veterans by suicide, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1034

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1034, a bill to 
improve agricultural job opportunities, benefits, and security for 
aliens in the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1055

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1055, a bill to restrict the exportation 
of certain defense articles to the Philippine National Police, to work 
with the Philippines to support civil society and a public health 
approach to substance abuse, to report on Chinese and other sources of 
narcotics to the Republic of the Philippines, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 109

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 109, a resolution 
encouraging the Government of Pakistan to release Aasiya Noreen, 
internationally known as Asia Bibi, and reform its religiously 
intolerant laws regarding blasphemy.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 139, a resolution 
condemning the Government of Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its 
Baha'i minority and its continued violation of the International 
Covenants on Human Rights.


                              S. RES. 155

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the 
Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the Senator from California (Mrs. 
Feinstein), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the Senator 
from Washington (Mrs. Murray) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 155, 
a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States 
should work in cooperation with the international community and 
continue to exercise global leadership to address the causes and 
effects of climate change, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



