

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5418]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  WELCOMING THE HONORABLE JIMMY GOMEZ TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentlewoman from California (Ms. 
Maxine Waters) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the 
Democratic delegation of California, I am so very pleased to welcome 
the newest member of the California delegation, Congressman Jimmy 
Gomez.
  Congressman Gomez will represent the people of the 34th Congressional 
District.
  Congressman Gomez was elected to the California State Assembly in 
2012 and reelected in 2014, and most recently in 2016, with over 86 
percent of the vote, to represent California's 51st assembly district.
  In the assembly, Congressman Gomez was a national champion of paid 
family leave. Congressman Gomez authored and passed legislation, 
Assembly Bill 908, the Nation's most progressive expansion of paid 
family leave, that President Obama held as a model for Congress.
  Jimmy also authored legislation to address public health, 
environmental justice, water conservation, and access to education.
  We are all looking forward to Representative Gomez expanding and 
continuing his work in the United States Congress. I hope Members will 
all join me in welcoming him to Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Gomez).
  Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank everyone for the warm 
welcome.
  I also want to thank Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy for all the 
attention he has given me for the past several weeks. Thank you so 
much.
  I am truly honored to be here and to be joined by my mother, Socorro; 
my brother, Gerry; my mother-in-law, Sally; and, of course, my amazing 
wife, Mary.
  My approach to public policy, politics, and government is shaped by 
the experiences of my family and of my community. As the son of 
immigrants who believes in this country and everything it promises, I 
am a living embodiment of that promise. I have a profound commitment to 
protecting the rights of immigrants no matter where they are from and 
no matter what God they worship.
  I am also a fighter for universal healthcare, because when I was 7 
years old, I ended up in the hospital with pneumonia, and that 1-week 
stay in the hospital almost bankrupted my family.
  I also believe that young people from working families should have 
access to debt-free education, because I know from my own personal 
experience that a high school degree is not always enough, and that is 
why a higher education can actually transform an individual's life.
  I believe everyone deserves access to clean air and clean water and 
that climate change has exacerbated that challenge.
  And lastly, I don't believe in the hype and the false divides that 
progressives can't be for working families and for families from all 
over America.
  To the people of the 34th Congressional District, I know why they 
sent me to Congress. They want me to fight for our families, our State, 
and our values, and I will do that every single day, and I won't let 
them down.

                          ____________________



