

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4120]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 260. Mr. ROUNDS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 1519, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title XVI, add the following:

     SEC. 1630C. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON USE OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL 
                   PERSONNEL ACT MOBILITY PROGRAM AND DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EXCHANGE 
                   PROGRAM TO OBTAIN PERSONNEL WITH CYBER SKILLS 
                   AND ABILITIES FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the Department of Defense should fully use the 
     Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program (IPAMP) and 
     the Department of Defense Information Technology Exchange 
     Program (ITEP) to obtain cyber personnel across the 
     Government by leveraging cyber capabilities found at the 
     State and local government level and in the private sector in 
     order to meet the needs of the Department for cybersecurity 
     professionals; and
       (2) the Department should implement at the earliest 
     practicable date a strategy that includes policies and plans 
     to fully use such programs to obtain such personnel for the 
     Department.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 261. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 1519, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle F of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. 1273. STRATEGY TO IMPROVE DEFENSE INSTITUTIONS AND 
                   SECURITY SECTOR FORCES IN NIGERIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a 
     comprehensive strategy to support improvements in defense 
     institutions and security sector forces in Nigeria.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) An assessment of the threats posed by terrorist and 
     other militant groups operating in Nigeria, including Boko 
     Haram, ISIS-WA, and Niger Delta militants, as well as a 
     description of the origins, strategic aims, tactical methods, 
     funding sources, and leadership structures of each such 
     organization.
       (2) An assessment of efforts by the Government of Nigeria 
     to improve civilian protection, accountability for human 
     rights violations, and transparency in the defense 
     institutions and security sector forces.
       (3) A description of the key international and United 
     States diplomatic, development, intelligence, military, and 
     economic resources available to address instability across 
     Nigeria, and a plan to maximize the coordination and 
     effectiveness of these resources to counter the threats posed 
     by Boko Haram, ISIS-WA, and Niger Delta militants.
       (4) An assessment of efforts undertaken by the security 
     forces of the Government of Nigeria to improve the protection 
     of civilians in the context of--
       (A) ongoing military operations against Boko Haram in the 
     northeast region;
       (B) addressing farmer-herder land disputes in the Middle 
     Belt;
       (C) renewed militant attacks on oil and gas infrastructure 
     in the Delta; and
       (D) addressing pro-Biafra protests in the southeast region.
       (5) An assessment of the effectiveness of the Civilian 
     Joint Task Force that has been operating in parts of 
     northeastern Nigeria in order to ensure that underage youth 
     are not participating in government-sponsored vigilante 
     activity in violation of the Child Soldiers Accountability 
     Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-340).
       (6) An assessment of the options for the Government of 
     Nigeria to eventually incorporate the Civilian Joint Task 
     Force into Nigeria's military or law enforcement agencies or 
     reintegrate its members into civilian life.
       (7) A plan for the United States Government to work with 
     the Nigerian military and judiciary to transparently 
     investigate human rights violations committed by the security 
     forces of the Government of Nigeria and other security forces 
     operating in Nigeria that have involved civilian casualties, 
     including a plan to undertake tangible measures of 
     accountability following such investigations in order to 
     break the cycle of conflict.
       (8) A plan for the United States Government to work with 
     the Nigerian defense institutions and security sector forces 
     to improve detainee conditions.
       (9) A plan for the United States Government to work with 
     the Nigerian military, international organizations, and 
     nongovernmental organizations to demilitarize the 
     humanitarian response to the food insecurity and population 
     displacement in northeastern Nigeria.
       (10) Any other matters the President considers appropriate.
       (c) Updates.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which 
     the report required under subsection (a) is submitted to the 
     appropriate congressional committees, and annually thereafter 
     for 5 years, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees an update of the report containing 
     updated assessments and evaluations on progress made on the 
     plans described in the report, including--
       (1) updated assessments on the information described in 
     paragraphs (2), (4), and (6) of subsection (a); and
       (2) descriptions of the steps taken and outcomes achieved 
     under each of the plans described in paragraphs (7), (8), 
     (9), and (10) of subsection (a), as well as assessments of 
     the effectiveness and descriptions of the metrics used to 
     evaluate effectiveness for each such plan.
       (d) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) and the 
     updates required under (c) shall be submitted in unclassified 
     form, but may include a classified annex.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees;
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives.

                          ____________________



