

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 104 (Monday, June 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 104 (Monday, June 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3568-S3569]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        SPECIAL COUNSEL MUELLER

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, finally, on another matter entirely, I 
continue to be alarmed by the wave of criticism from the far right of 
Special Counsel Robert Mueller. It seems obvious that, because Mr. 
Mueller--one of the most respected and trusted men in Washington--is in 
charge of investigating Russian interference in our elections and any 
other issues that arise out of that investigation, the far-right, 
special interest partisans have set out on a despicable campaign to 
smear his character and muddy the waters of his investigation.

[[Page S3569]]

  I just want to remind my colleagues and the American people that 
there is no one more qualified or more trusted to do this job than 
Robert Mueller. He spent almost his entire adult life in service to his 
country. He is a decorated veteran of the Vietnam war and served as 
U.S. attorney for 12 years. He was appointed by a Republican President, 
President George Bush, to lead the FBI in 2001 and served his full 10-
year term with distinction, and then he was asked to spend an 
additional 2 years under President Obama. Congress had to pass a 
special waiver to allow him to continue in his FBI post, and the vote 
was unanimous. Every Republican--many in this Chamber--voted 
unanimously to ratify Robert Mueller for another 2 years as FBI 
Director. What an endorsement--a great endorsement. That vote made Mr. 
Mueller the longest serving FBI Director since J. Edgar Hoover and the 
only FBI Director to serve under Presidents of both parties.
  Mr. Mueller represents the best of public service. He will pursue 
this investigation without regard to politics or pressure of any kind, 
and that is exactly what America needs.
  The chorus of extreme commentators and media personalities who seek 
to curry favor with the President by trying to tear down this man of 
great integrity is only heaping dishonor on themselves. Worse yet, they 
are trying to discredit our most important democratic institution--the 
rule of law. These critics know Mr. Mueller is a straight arrow, and 
many of them said as much when he was appointed, but because he is in a 
position to examine the President's actions and perhaps to take action, 
they are attacking his character.
  This is not, my colleagues, a political game. This is a very serious 
investigation about foreign interference in our elections--something 
that eats at, that corrodes the roots of our democracy, the very 
wellspring of our being and pride as a nation.
  The man leading this investigation ought to be trusted by the 
American people, and over the course of his long, distinguished career, 
he has certainly earned that trust.
  Again, I urge that these attacks on Mr. Mueller cease and that my 
friends on the other side of the aisle join me in defending his 
reputation. The critics are going much too far.
  I yield the floor and ask that the Senator wait 1 minute so that I 
might have a word with him.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Indiana.

                          ____________________



