

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5403-H5404]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 REMOVAL OF USE RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN LAND TRANSFERRED TO ROCKINGHAM 
                            COUNTY, VIRGINIA

  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 954) to remove the use restrictions on certain land 
transferred to Rockingham County, Virginia, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 954

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. REMOVAL OF USE RESTRICTION.

       Public Law 101-479 (104 Stat. 1158) is amended--
       (1) by striking section 2(d); and
       (2) by adding the following new section at the end:

     ``SEC. 4. REMOVAL OF USE RESTRICTION.

       ``(a) The approximately 1-acre portion of the land referred 
     to in section 3 that is used for purposes of a child care 
     center, as authorized by this Act, shall not be subject to 
     the use restriction imposed in the deed referred to in 
     section 3.
       ``(b) Upon enactment of this section, the Secretary of the 
     Interior shall execute an instrument to carry out subsection 
     (a).''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. LaHood) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Panetta) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois.


                             General Leave

  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Illinois?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 954, offered by our colleague, the chairman of the 
Judiciary Committee, Congressman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, would 
remove certain deed restrictions on an approximately 1-acre portion of 
a property previously transferred in Rockingham County, Virginia, under 
the terms of the National Park Service's Federal Lands to Parks 
Program. The transferred land included a garage that had previously 
been used by the National Park Service.
  Following the transfer, Rockingham County decided that the nonprofit 
Plains Area Daycare Center, which provides affordable childcare for 
nearly 100 children, would benefit from use of the garage.
  In 1990, Congress passed a law allowing for a portion of the 
previously transferred land to be used for the childcare center. 
Although a portion of the transferred property is authorized for use as 
a daycare center, the center encounters hurdles in securing financing 
for improvements and repairs due to the terms of the original deed and 
the subsequent legislation.
  H.R. 954 would remove certain deed restrictions from an approximately 
1-acre portion of the property, while the other 2 acres would continue 
to be subject to the existing deed restrictions and revisionary clause. 
Removal of these deed restrictions will ensure that improvements and 
repairs can take place without further delay in the future.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the measure, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 954 removes the use restrictions on a 1-acre parcel 
of Federal land provided to Rockingham County, Virginia.
  In 1989, Congress authorized Rockingham County to use a 3-acre parcel 
of Federal land for the purpose of establishing a childcare center 
under the condition that the land continues to be used for this 
purpose. If the county no longer needs the land for a childcare center, 
the land reverts back to ownership by the United States or the county 
has the option to purchase it at a fair market value.
  The Federal Government has a long tradition of providing public land 
to State, county, and local governments. Fair use of Federal land and a 
fair return to the American taxpayer has yet to be at the forefront of 
these transactions.
  Removing public-purpose requirements and use restrictions should only 
be done when it is deemed appropriate and necessary, and in this 
particular case, the sponsor of this bill has worked with the National 
Park Service to develop legislation that is both fair and transparent.
  The land provided to Rockingham County includes a garage previously 
used by the National Park Service that the county has determined could 
benefit Plains Area Daycare Center. The Park Service no longer needs 
the garage, and removing the use restriction on one of the 3 acres will 
allow this childcare provider to access financial assistance in order 
to upgrade and rehabilitate the garage so that it is suitable to their 
needs.
  This is a worthy goal, and I commend the gentleman from Virginia for 
this legislation, and that is why we support the adoption of H.R. 954.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Goodlatte), the chairman of the Judiciary 
Committee.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Illinois for 
yielding to me and for his work on this bill, as well as Chairman 
Bishop's work on this legislation and those on the other side of the 
aisle.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of H.R. 954. This bill 
simply removes 20-year-old deed use restrictions on 1 acre of land in 
Rockingham County, Virginia.
  For over 25 years, a little over 3 acres of land and its associated 
buildings previously held by the Federal Government have been 
maintained by Rockingham County in the Plains Area Daycare Center in 
the Sixth District of Virginia.
  In 1989, the Federal Government deeded these 3 acres of land, with 
restriction, to Rockingham County. However, even prior to this official 
declaration, Rockingham County had already been faithfully maintaining 
the property no longer utilized by the Federal Government.
  The government transferred this land to Rockingham County in 1989 
under the condition that this property was to be used for public 
purposes. The county then decided that the nonprofit Plains Area 
Daycare Center in Broadway, Virginia, which provides childcare on a 
sliding scale to many families who otherwise could not afford such a 
service, would benefit from the use of the old garage located on the 
property.
  Therefore, in 1990, Congress enacted Public Law 101-479, which 
allowed the deed to be changed from public use to the particular use of 
the childcare center. Donations by the community, totaling $75,000, 
turned the building into a nursery, daycare, and afterschool care 
facility.
  Additionally, the establishment of the daycare center provided for 
the creation of a playground that the center supports and opens for 
public use. To

[[Page H5404]]

be clear, the center and the playground are the sole reason 
this previously abandoned government land is being used by the 
community.

  I have visited the Plains Area Daycare Center on many occasions, and 
I have seen the immeasurable investment this center is making in the 
community by providing high-quality childcare. Since opening in 1991, 
the center has always been at capacity and is the only facility of its 
kind in the community.
  However, after 2 decades of consistent use, the facility is in 
desperate need of repairs. Unfortunately, because of the narrow way 
Public Law 101-479 was drafted and because of the terms of the deed, 
the daycare center has been unable to obtain a loan to complete much-
needed renovations. To solve this problem, my legislation would remove 
the deed's use restrictions from the 1 acre of property on which the 
building resides.
  While I would like to have seen the entire 3 acres released, this 
legislation is the result of a compromise that has been endorsed by the 
National Park Service and Rockingham County. By passing this 
legislation and allowing Rockingham County and, in turn, the Plains 
Area Daycare Center more authority over the land, we will ensure that 
more children and more of the community will be served.
  Mr. Speaker, while my legislation today is simply a formality, it is 
of great importance to those being served by this daycare center in the 
community. For 25 years, the land has been deeded to Rockingham County, 
but with overbearing restrictions. Since it is clear the Federal 
Government no longer has a vested interest in the land, it is time to 
lift those restrictions to allow the Plains Area Daycare Center to 
reach it full potential.
  Twenty years ago, Congress made its intention clear that a daycare 
facility was to have use of the property, and I am pleased to lead the 
charge in fixing the law.
  Again, I thank Chairman Bishop and his committee for bringing this 
bill before the House. I also thank my legislative assistant, Angela 
Inglett, for her hard work on this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of H.R. 954 to simply remove the deed 
restrictions on 1 acre of land so that the necessary upgrades may be 
made to the childcare center and so that this community investment may 
continue.
  Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no more speakers, and I yield back 
the balance of our time.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the legislation, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LaHood) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 954.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



