

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2915-S2916]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
             Nelson, Mr. McCain, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Moran, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Heller, and Mr. Flake):
       S. 1094. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the accountability of employees of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 1095. A bill to ensure that the Secretary of the 
     Interior collaborates fully with State and local authorities 
     and certain nonprofit entities in managing the Corolla Wild 
     Horse population on Federal land; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1096. A bill to amend and enhance certain maritime 
     programs of the Department of Transportation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. DAINES:
       S. 1097. A bill to postpone the deadline for the completion 
     of the conversion of certain military technician (dual 
     status) positions to positions of civilian employment by the 
     Federal Government, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 1098. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from employing 
     individuals who have been convicted of a felony and medical 
     personnel who have had their medical licenses or credentials 
     revoked or suspended, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr. Grassley, and Mrs. 
             McCaskill):
       S. 1099. A bill to provide for the identification and 
     prevention of improper payments and the identification of 
     strategic sourcing opportunities by reviewing and analyzing 
     the use of Federal agency charge cards; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 1100. A bill to amend title 46, United States Code, to 
     authorize appropriations for the program to provide 
     assistance for small shipyards and maritime communities 
     through fiscal year 2020, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Heller, and Mrs. 
             Shaheen):
       S. 1101. A bill to eliminate discrimination and promote 
     women's health and economic security by ensuring reasonable 
     workplace accommodations for workers whose ability to perform 
     the functions of a job are limited by pregnancy, childbirth, 
     or a related medical condition; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Merkley, Ms. Warren, Mr. Reed, Mr. Booker, and Mr. 
             Brown):
       S. 1102. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for an investment tax credit related to the 
     production of electricity from offshore wind; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 1103. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue 
     Department-wide guidance and to develop training programs as 
     part of the Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Schatz, 
             Mrs. Fischer, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Peters, and Mr. 
             Moran):
       S. 1104. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to establish a methodology for the collection by 
     the Commission of information about commercial mobile service 
     and commercial mobile data service, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Brown, 
             Mr. Casey, Mr. Warner, Mr. Franken, Mrs. McCaskill, 
             Mr. Nelson, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             Donnelly, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Portman, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Durbin, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Burr, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Booker, and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 1105. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain funds to the 1974 
     United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1106. A bill to designate the same individual serving as 
     the Chief Nurse Officer of the Public Health Service as the 
     National Nurse for Public Health; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Nelson, Mr. Carper, Ms. Cortez Masto, and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 1107. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     authorize the appointment of

[[Page S2916]]

     additional bankruptcy judges, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Moran, Mr. Udall, Mr. Carper, and Mr. 
             Gardner):
       S. 1108. A bill to amend title 4, United States Code, to 
     provide for the flying of the flag at half-staff in the event 
     of the death of a first responder in the line of duty; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Burr, Ms. Baldwin, and 
             Ms. Collins):
       S. 1109. A bill to amend title VIII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to extend advanced education nursing grants to 
     support clinical nurse specialist programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mrs. Fischer, and Mrs. 
             McCaskill):
       S. 1110. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     provide for private lactation areas in the terminals of large 
     and medium hub airports, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 1111. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to improve the provision of services and benefits 
     from the Department of Veterans Affairs for veterans who 
     experience domestic violence or sexual assault, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1112. A bill to support States in their work to save and 
     sustain the health of mothers during pregnancy, childbirth, 
     and in the postpartum period, to eliminate disparities in 
     maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related and pregnancy-
     associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve health 
     care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 1113. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety of cosmetics; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Wyden, 
             Mr. Franken, Mr. Markey, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Ms. Harris, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Booker, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Coons, Mr. Bennet, Mr. 
             Merkley, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Reed, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Durbin, and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 1114. A bill to nullify the effect of the recent 
     Executive order laying a foundation for discrimination 
     against LGBTQ individuals, women, religious minorities, and 
     others under the pretext of religious freedom; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Cotton, and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1115. A bill to improve access to prescription drugs; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 1116. A bill to amend the Native American Business 
     Development, Trade Promotion, and Tourism Act of 2000, the 
     Buy Indian Act, and the Native American Programs Act of 1974 
     to provide industry and economic development opportunities to 
     Indian communities; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Rounds, 
             and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 1117. A bill to protect the investment choices of 
     investors in the United States, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Gardner, Mr. 
             Menendez, and Mr. Cruz):
       S. 1118. A bill to reauthorize the North Korea Human Rights 
     Act of 2004, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.

                          ____________________



