

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4425-S4426]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 1641. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to limit certain 
     administrative actions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Peters, and 
             Mr. Daines):
       S. 1642. A bill to amend the Revised Statutes, the Home 
     Owners' Loan Act, the Federal Credit Union Act, and the 
     Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require the rate of interest 
     on certain loans remain unchanged after transfer of the loan, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
             Roberts, and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 1643. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to prohibit the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service 
     from rehiring any employee of the Internal Revenue Service 
     who was involuntarily separated from service for misconduct; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 1644. A bill to clarify the status of the Captain John 
     Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail as a unit of the 
     National Park System; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 1645. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct a special resource study of P.S. 103 in West 
     Baltimore, Maryland, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 1646. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct a special resource study of President Station in 
     Baltimore, Maryland, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Cochran, 
             and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 1647. A bill to require the appropriate Federal banking 
     agencies to treat certain non-significant investments in the 
     capital of unconsolidated financial institutions as 
     qualifying capital instruments, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD:
       S. 1648. An original bill making appropriations for the 
     Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
     2018, and for other purposes; from the Committee on 
     Appropriations; placed on the calendar.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Cruz, and Mr. Sasse):
       S. 1649. A bill to help States combat abuse of occupational 
     licensing laws by economic incumbents, to promote 
     competition, to encourage innovation, to protect consumers, 
     and to facilitate the restoration of antitrust immunity to 
     State occupational boards, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Brown, Ms. Warren, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Franken, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1650. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to award grants to support the access of 
     marginalized youth to sexual health services, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Hassan, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 1651. A bill to provide for temporary financing of 
     short-time compensation programs; to the Committee on 
     Finance.

[[Page S4426]]

  

           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Franken, 
             Mr. Durbin, Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Booker, Mr. Sanders, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1652. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 and the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 to prevent wage 
     theft and assist in the recovery of stolen wages, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Labor to administer grants to 
     prevent wage and hour violations, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Brown, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Warren, and Mr. 
             Markey):
       S. 1653. A bill to provide for the overall health and well-
     being of young people, including the promotion of lifelong 
     sexual health and healthy relationships, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Heller, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Mr. Daines, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Gardner, and 
             Mr. Franken):
       S. 1654. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     update the privacy protections for electronic communications 
     information that is stored by third-party service providers 
     in order to protect consumer privacy interests while meeting 
     law enforcement needs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. COLLINS:
       S. 1655. An original bill making appropriations for the 
     Departments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban 
     Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2018, and for other purposes; from the 
     Committee on Appropriations; placed on the calendar.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
       S. 1656. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to provide cybersecurity protections for medical 
     devices; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 1657. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     update the privacy protections for electronic communications 
     information that is stored by third-party service providers 
     and for geolocation information in order to protect consumer 
     privacy interests while meeting law enforcement needs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 1658. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to give the Department of 
     Education the authority to award competitive grants to 
     eligible entities to establish, expand, or support school-
     based mentoring programs to assist at-risk students in middle 
     school and high school in developing cognitive and social-
     emotional skills to prepare them for success in high school, 
     postsecondary education, and the workforce; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mr. 
             Franken):
       S. 1659. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     establish a national usury rate for consumer credit 
     transactions; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Blunt, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1660. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act 
     of 1971 to prohibit the acceptance by political committees of 
     online contributions from certain unverified sources, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Peters, 
             Ms. Warren, and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 1661. A bill to make permanent the extended period of 
     protections for members of uniformed services relating to 
     mortgages, mortgage foreclosure, and eviction, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SHELBY:
       S. 1662. An original bill making appropriations for the 
     Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Related 
     Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and 
     for other purposes; from the Committee on Appropriations; 
     placed on the calendar.
           By Mr. HOEVEN:
       S. 1663. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to enhance the requirements for secure geological storage of 
     carbon dioxide for purposes of the carbon dioxide 
     sequestration credit; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 1664. A bill to amend section 5307 of title 49, United 
     States Code, with respect to the treatment of communities as 
     urbanized areas following a major disaster; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 1665. A bill to authorize the State of Utah to select 
     certain lands that are available for disposal under the Pony 
     Express Resource Management Plan to be used for the support 
     and benefit of State institutions, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1666. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to issue a rule requiring all new passenger motor vehicles to 
     be equipped with a child safety alert system, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 1667. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide protections for consumers against excessive, 
     unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory increases in premium 
     rates; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. SCHUMER:
       S. 1668. A bill to rename a waterway in the State of New 
     York as the ``Joseph Sanford Jr. Channel''; to the Committee 
     on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BOOKER:
       S. 1669. A bill to provide mandatory funding for the 
     remediation of National Priority List sites, certain 
     abandoned coal mining sites, and formerly used defense sites, 
     and for the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program 
     and the Diesel Emissions Reduction Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 1670. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish a program to increase participation in community 
     solar and the receipt of associated benefits, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Mr. Heller):
       S. 1671. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     safeguard data stored abroad, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



