

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2530]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 925. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the ability of health care professionals to treat 
     veterans through the use of telemedicine, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 926. A bill to authorize the Global War on Terror 
     Memorial Foundation to establish the National Global War on 
     Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the District of 
     Columbia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LEAHY (for himself and Mr. Grassley):
       S. 927. A bill to allow acceleration certificates awarded 
     under the Patents for Humanity Program to be transferable; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Booker, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mr. Markey, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Hassan, 
             Mr. Wyden, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Leahy, Mr. Casey, Mr. Franken, Ms. Harris, and Mr. 
             Durbin):
       S. 928. A bill to prohibit, as an unfair or deceptive act 
     or practice, commercial sexual orientation conversion 
     therapy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 929. A bill to improve the HUBZone program; to the 
     Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. McCain, and Mr. King):
       S. 930. A bill to require the Administrator of the Western 
     Area Power Administration to establish a pilot project to 
     provide increased transparency for customers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 931. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 4910 Brighton Boulevard in 
     Denver, Colorado, as the ``George Sakato Post Office''; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Perdue, 
             Mr. Paul, and Mr. Lee):
       S. 932. A bill to amend the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974 to provide that any estimate prepared by the 
     Congressional Budget Office or the Joint Committee on 
     Taxation shall include costs relating to servicing the public 
     debt, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 933. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to carry out a pilot program to provide veterans the option 
     of using an alternative appeals process to more quickly 
     determine claims for disability compensation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 934. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to revise and extend the user-fee programs for 
     prescription drugs, medical devices, generic drugs, and 
     biosimilar biological products, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 935. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
     to permit Governors of States to regulate intrastate 
     endangered species and intrastate threatened species, to 
     amend the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to permit the taking of 
     certain black vultures and ravens, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Brown, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Markey, Ms. Stabenow, and Mr. 
             Menendez):
       S. 936. A bill to designate certain National Forest System 
     land and certain public land under the jurisdiction of the 
     Secretary of the Interior in the States of Idaho, Montana, 
     Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilderness, wild and 
     scenic rivers, wildland recovery areas, and biological 
     connecting corridors, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Markey, Mr. Rounds, and Ms. 
             Klobuchar):
       S. 937. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for a refundable adoption tax credit; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Carper, 
             and Mr. Reed):
       S. 938. A bill to require notice of cost-free Federal 
     procurement technical assistance in connection with 
     registration of small business concerns in procurement 
     systems; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CRUZ:
       S. 939. A bill to reserve any amounts forfeited to the 
     United States Government as a result of the criminal 
     prosecution of Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera (commonly 
     known as ``El Chapo''), or of other felony convictions 
     involving the transportation of controlled substances into 
     the United States, for security measures along the Southern 
     border, including the completion of a border wall; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 940. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the rules relating to loans made from a qualified 
     employer plan, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 941. A bill to withdraw certain National Forest System 
     land in the Emigrant Crevice area located in the Custer 
     Gallatin National Forest, Park County, Montana, from the 
     mining and mineral leasing laws of the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S.J. Res. 41. An original joint resolution providing for an 
     exception to the limitation on the appointment of certain 
     persons as the United States Trade Representative; from the 
     Committee on Finance; placed on the calendar.

                          ____________________



