

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3731-S3732]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Blunt, and 
             Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 1405. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     authorize appropriations for the Federal Aviation 
     Administration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 1406. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for the issuance of Green Bonds and to establish the 
     United States Green Bank, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1407. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to enhance tax incentives for manufacturing in the United 
     States; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 1408. A bill to enhance effective prosecution and 
     defense in courts-martial, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 1409. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to extend the credit for residential energy efficient 
     property, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Hoeven, Ms. Cortez 
             Masto, and Mr. Heller):
       S. 1410. A bill to further the development of unmanned 
     aircraft system technology through investing in additional 
     research, building a trained workforce, and establishing 
     working groups to address near-term and long-term challenges, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 1411. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for a five-year extension of the payment of the 
     special survivor indemnity allowance under the Survivor 
     Benefit Plan; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Markey, 
             Mr. Franken, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Udall, Ms. Hirono, Ms. 
             Hassan, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 1412. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for a percentage of student loan forgiveness for 
     public service employment, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Grassley, 
             and Mr. Reed):
       S. 1413. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Education to 
     award grants to establish teacher leader development 
     programs; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Kaine, 
             Mr. King, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Cochran, 
             Mr. Strange, Ms. Collins, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Perdue, Mr. 
             Cotton, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Sullivan, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Roberts, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1414. A bill to state the policy of the United States on 
     the minimum number of available battle force ships; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 1415. A bill to terminate the prohibitions on the 
     exportation and importation of natural gas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr. Burr):
       S. 1416. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     redefine the eastern and middle judicial districts of North 
     Carolina; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 1417. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior to 
     develop a categorical exclusion for covered vegetative 
     management activities carried out to establish or improve 
     habitat for greater sage-grouse and mule deer, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1418. A bill to establish protections for passengers in 
     air transportation, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Bennet, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Carper, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
             Coons, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Donnelly, Ms. Duckworth, 
             Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Harris, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mr. Kaine, Mr. King, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Markey, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Schumer, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Tester, Mr. Udall, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Mr. Warner, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, and 
             Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1419. A bill to amend the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to 
     revise the criteria for determining which States and 
     political subdivisions are subject to section 4 of the Act, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Booker, Mr. Kaine, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Coons, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Wyden, 
             Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Menendez, and Mr. Udall):
       S. 1420. A bill to direct the Secretary of State to review 
     the termination characterization of former members of the 
     Department of State who were fired by reason of the sexual 
     orientation of the official, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Markey, Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Merkley, and Mr. 
             Schatz):
       S. 1421. A bill to support educational entities in fully 
     implementing title IX and reducing and preventing sex 
     discrimination in all areas of education; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Roberts, and Mr. 
             Tester):
       S. 1422. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to treat certain farming business machinery and equipment as 
     5-year property for purposes of depreciation; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr.

[[Page S3732]]

             Markey, Mr. Franken, and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 1423. A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation 
     to modify the final rule relating to flightcrew member duty 
     and rest requirements for passenger operations of air 
     carriers to apply to all-cargo operations of air carriers to 
     apply to all-cargo operations of air carriers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. Moran, Mr. Tester, and 
             Mr. Daines):
       S. 1424. A bill to apply the provisions of title 5, United 
     States Code, related to veterans' preference to the Federal 
     Aviation Administration personnel management system, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Ms. Cantwell, Ms. 
             Murkowski, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Graham, Ms. 
             Collins, Mr. Markey, Mr. Schatz, and Mr. Peters):
       S. 1425. A bill to reauthorize the Integrated Coastal and 
     Ocean Observation System Act of 2009, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 1426. A bill to amend the Ted Stevens Olympic and 
     Amateur Sports Act to expand the purposes of the corporation, 
     to designate the United States Center for Safe Sport, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.

                          ____________________



