

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4645-H4646]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 2772. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for requirements relating to the reassignment of 
     Department of Veterans Affairs senior executive employees; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Kuster 
             of New Hampshire, and Mr. Duncan of Tennessee):
       H.R. 2773. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to sell Pershing Hall; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Taylor):
       H.R. 2774. A bill to establish a bug bounty pilot program 
     within the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself, Ms. Foxx, 
             Mr. Walberg, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Byrne, Mr. 
             Grothman, Mr. Allen, and Mr. Mitchell):
       H.R. 2775. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to require that lists of employees eligible to vote in 
     organizing elections be provided to the National Labor 
     Relations Board; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr.

[[Page H4646]]

             Byrne, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Allen, and Mr. Mitchell):
       H.R. 2776. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     with respect to the timing of elections and pre-election 
     hearings and the identification of pre-election issues; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Ms. Norton, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Takano, 
             Mr. Evans, and Mr. Norcross):
       H.R. 2777. A bill to include information regarding VA home 
     loans in the Informed Consumer Choice Disclosure required to 
     be provided to a prospective FHA borrower who is a veteran, 
     to amend title 10, United States Code, to authorize the 
     provision of a certificate of eligibility for VA home loans 
     during the preseparation counseling for members of the Armed 
     Forces, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself and Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee):
       H.R. 2778. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish a Smart Technology Traffic Signals Grant 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. DENHAM (for himself and Mr. Valadao):
       H.R. 2779. A bill to amend title XI of the Social Security 
     Act to provide through the Center for Medicare and Medicaid 
     Innovation (CMMI) for a Medicaid payment model demonstration 
     project on Medicaid reimbursement for physicians' services in 
     counties with a disproportionately high proportion of 
     Medicaid enrollees; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. EVANS (for himself and Mr. Brat):
       H.R. 2780. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to create 
     certain requirements for Federal agencies with a SBIR or STTR 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small 
     Business, and in addition to the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DUNN (for himself and Mr. Panetta):
       H.R. 2781. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to certify the sufficient participation of small 
     business concerns owned and controlled by veterans and small 
     business concerns owned by veterans with service-connected 
     disabilities in contracts under the Federal Strategic 
     Sourcing Initiative, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Mr. Bucshon):
       H.R. 2782. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide students with disabilities and their families with 
     access to critical information needed to select the right 
     college and succeed once enrolled; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
       H.R. 2783. A bill to amend titles 28 and 10, United States 
     Code, to allow for certiorari review of certain cases denied 
     relief or review by the United States Court of Appeals for 
     the Armed Forces; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 2784. A bill to require the Attorney General to 
     establish a ``Good Neighbor'' code of conduct for federally 
     licensed firearms dealers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself and Mr. 
             LaMalfa):
       H.R. 2785. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pay the 
     reasonable costs of urgent care provided to certain veterans, 
     to establish cost-sharing amounts for veterans receiving care 
     at an emergency room of the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself and Ms. DeGette):
       H.R. 2786. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act with 
     respect to the criteria and process to qualify as a 
     qualifying conduit hydropower facility; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio):
       H.R. 2787. A bill to establish in the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs a pilot program instituting a clinical 
     observation program for pre-med students preparing to attend 
     medical school; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Gallego, 
             Mr. Veasey, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Soto, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. 
             Pingree, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. Hastings, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Lofgren, and Ms. Lee):
       H.R. 2788. A bill to expand access to health care services, 
     including sexual, reproductive, and maternal health services, 
     for immigrant women, men, and families by removing legal 
     barriers to health insurance coverage, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Schneider, and Mr. Lipinski):
       H.R. 2789. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     reauthorize and improve the Small Business Innovation 
     Research Program and the Small Business Technology Transfer 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small 
     Business, and in addition to the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Tonko, 
             Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Donovan, Ms. Titus, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Stefanik, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Katko, and Mr. 
             Deutch):
       H.R. 2790. A bill to phase out cosmetic animal testing and 
     the sale of cosmetics tested on animals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 2791. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to treat infant formula as adulterated if its 
     use-by date has passed; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself and Mr. Sam Johnson of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 2792. A bill to amend the Social Security Act to make 
     certain revisions to provisions limiting payment of benefits 
     to fugitive felons under titles II, VIII, and XVI of the 
     Social Security Act; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS (for himself and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 2793. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Act to provide that the consumer transaction account deposits 
     of an insured depository institution are not considered to be 
     funds obtained by or through a deposit broker, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Walden, and Mr. Schrader):
       H.J. Res. 105. A joint resolution condemning the deadly 
     attack on May 26, 2017, in Portland, Oregon, expressing 
     deepest condolences to the families and friends of the 
     victims, and supporting community efforts to overcome hatred, 
     bigotry, and violence; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself and Mr. Franks of Arizona):
       H. Res. 376. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of July 2, 2017, as the ``National Day of 
     Personal Reflection and Repentance''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



