

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3829-S3830]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1450. A bill to prohibit cell phone voice communications 
     during passenger flights; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. FISCHER:
       S. 1451. A bill to facilitate and promote innovative 
     approaches to railroad safety, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Young, and 
             Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1452. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     establish within the Office of the Under Secretary for Health 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs the position of Chief 
     Information Officer of the Veterans Health Administration, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 1453. A bill to allow the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to designate certain substance use disorder 
     treatment facilities as eligible for National Health Service 
     Corps service; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, and Mr. 
             Grassley):
       S. 1454. A bill to ensure that persons who form 
     corporations in the United States disclose the beneficial 
     owners of those corporations, in order to prevent the 
     formation of corporations with hidden owners, stop the misuse 
     of United States corporations by wrongdoers, and assist law 
     enforcement in detecting, preventing, and punishing 
     terrorism, money laundering, tax evasion, and other criminal 
     and civil misconduct involving United States corporations, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

[[Page S3830]]

  

           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 1455. A bill to amend the United States Energy Storage 
     Competitiveness Act of 2007 to direct the Secretary of Energy 
     to establish new goals for the Department of Energy relating 
     to energy storage and to carry out certain demonstration 
     projects relating to energy storage; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. STRANGE:
       S. 1456. A bill to provide that human life shall be deemed 
     to begin with fertilization; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1457. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     direct the Secretary of Energy to carry out demonstration 
     projects relating to advanced nuclear reactor technologies to 
     support domestic energy needs; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 1458. A bill to establish a grant program to incentivize 
     States to reduce prison populations, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself and Mr. Graham):
       S. 1459. A bill to establish Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie 
     National Park in the State of South Carolina, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 1460. A bill to provide for the modernization of the 
     energy and natural resources policies of the United States, 
     and for other purposes; read the first time.
           By Mrs. ERNST:
       S. 1461. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for the eligibility of certain former members of the 
     Armed Forces who are medically retired and who are entitled 
     to hospital insurance benefits under Medicare part A by 
     reason of previous entitlement to social security disability 
     insurance benefits to enroll in the TRICARE program 
     regardless of whether such members decline enrollment under 
     Medicare part B, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Carper, Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. King, Mr. Coons, Mr. Cardin, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mr. Leahy, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Warner, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mr. Reed, Mr. Casey, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
             Udall, and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 1462. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to improve cost sharing subsidies; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cortez Masto, 
             Mr. Cotton, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Rounds, Mr. 
             Scott, Mr. Tester, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Warner, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1463. A bill to amend the Financial Stability Act of 
     2010 to modify the term of the independent member of the 
     Financial Stability Oversight Council; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Heller, Mr. Bennet, 
             and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 1464. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand the exclusion for energy conservation subsidies 
     provided by public utilities to include subsidies provided by 
     public utilities and State and local governments for water 
     conservation and storm water management; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 1465. A bill to terminate the prohibitions on the 
     exportation and importation of natural gas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr. Murphy):
       S. 1466. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to 
     award grants to fund research on orthotics and prosthetics, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Coons, Mr. Franken, Mr. Nelson, 
             Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Duckworth, and Mr. Peters):
       S. 1467. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to award grants to establish, or expand upon, 
     master's degree programs in orthotics and prosthetics, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. WARREN:
       S. 1468. A bill to require reports on civilian casualties 
     in connection with United States military operations; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Isakson, 
             and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 1469. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to extend tax incentives to permanently extend the special 
     expensing rules for certain film, television, and live 
     theatrical productions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. WARREN:
       S. 1470. A bill to protect members of our Armed Forces from 
     Russian and other foreign interference, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. WARREN:
       S. 1471. A bill to ensure the compliance of Department of 
     Defense regulations with Federal consumer protection laws on 
     the collection of debt; to the Committee on Armed Services.

                          ____________________



