

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2975-H2976]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       THE PAGO PAGO DECLARATION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
American Samoa (Mrs. Radewagen) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my 
appreciation and that of the Samoan people for the April 23 visit of 
Vice President Mike Pence, who was accompanied by the Second Lady and 
their daughters to my home district, the United States Territory of 
American Samoa, upon the conclusion of his historic 10-day visit to 
strategic Asian and Pacific partners. Upon his arrival to Pago Pago, 
the Vice President remarked that he was glad to be back on American 
soil.
  This historic visit to American Samoa marks only the third time a 
sitting Vice President has graced our shores and follows in the 
footsteps of past visits from Vice Presidents Quayle in 1989 and Biden 
in 2016. Previous visits to our beautiful islands from White House 
dignitaries include First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt in 1943, President 
Lyndon Johnson in 1966, and President Jimmy Carter's son, Jeffrey, who 
represented his father at the inauguration of our first elected 
Governor in 1977, who happens to be my father, Peter Tali Coleman.
  Madam Speaker, pursuant to legislation I introduced in February, 
which was enacted by Congress and signed into law by President Trump on 
May 31, the Vice President came to American Samoa at my humble request 
to dedicate our veterans clinic to the memory of the late former 
representative of American Samoa, Congressman Eni F.H. Faleomavaega, 
with whom the Vice President served the entirety of his tenure in the 
U.S. House of Representatives from 2003 to 2013.
  While in American Samoa, the Vice President also reviewed the troops 
comprised of Reserve companies who are part of the 100th Battalion, 
442nd Infantry of the U.S. Army based in Hawaii. Headquartered at Ft. 
Shafter in Honolulu, the 100th Battalion, 442nd Infantry is the only 
infantry unit in the entire United States Army Reserve. Samoan soldiers 
who are part of the battalion have fought and served bravely in 
conflicts from Desert Storm to Afghanistan and Iraq, and others, since 
the companies were relocated to American Samoa in 1980.
  Madam Speaker, American Samoa takes particular pride that Vice 
President Pence was able to celebrate with us the 109th anniversary of 
the establishment of the United States Army Reserves, which just 
happened to line up perfectly with his visit.
  While the Vice President's journey was well covered by international 
and domestic media, most outlets outside of the Pacific failed to 
report a significant statement he made, which I have called the Pago 
Pago Declaration. This important statement made on our soil was well 
noted and well received in the Pacific Islands.
  Specifically, the Vice President spoke of the challenges the U.S. 
faces in Asia and the Pacific and confirmed to the audience assembled 
that, as quoted by Radio New Zealand International and broadcast 
region-wide: ``We're here to stay, we're here for peace, we're here for 
the prosperity of all of our people, and we are proud the American flag 
flies in American Samoa.''
  Madam Speaker, I include in the Record this Radio New Zealand 
International story.

                [From Radio New Zealand, Apr. 25, 2017]

        American Samoans Told US Is Committed to Regional Peace

       The United States Vice President has told American Samoans 
     that his country is committed to peace and stability in the 
     Asia-Pacific region.
       Mike Pence made a brief stopover in the US territory 
     yesterday where he was greeted by Governor Lobo Matalasi 
     Moliga his wife, the Lieutenant-Governor Lemanu Peleti Mauga, 
     Chief Justice Michael Kruse, House Speaker Savali Talavou 
     Ale'a and congresswoman Aumua Amata Radewagen.
       Secret Service agents restricted access and only a few 
     leaders were allowed to shake hands with the Vice-President. 
     Governor Lobo apologised to traditional leaders who weren't 
     able to conduct a traditional ava ceremony because of 
     security restrictions. Mr Pence, who was with his wife Karen, 
     thanked American Samoans for their support and prayers.
       He said it was an important time for the Asia-Pacific 
     region.
       Mr Pence said he was in the territory on behalf of 
     President Donald Trump to symbolise the US commitment to the 
     area.
       ``We're here to stay, we're here for peace, we're here for 
     the prosperity of all of our people and we are proud the 
     American flag flies in American Samoa,'' he said.


[[Page H2976]]


  

  Mrs. RADEWAGEN. The People's Republic of China and other external 
powers are gaining visibility and influence in the region, including 
the neighboring Independent State of Samoa. Due to the new influence of 
foreign interests in the region, members of American Samoa's 
territorial legislature, the Fono, just days prior to the Vice 
President's arrival, expressed to me, during my appearance before a 
special joint session, their concern about the rise of foreign 
influences in the region. I am certain the Pago Pago Declaration will 
help to allay their concerns and will be welcome in capitals across the 
Pacific from Port Moresby to Papeete, Tahiti.
  Moreover, Madam Speaker, I anticipate that the Pago Pago Declaration 
will be a component of the evolving Trump doctrine that is under 
development by the administration, which I expect will be fully 
articulated when the U.S. participates in the Port Moresby APEC summit 
in November of next year.
  Madam Speaker, we, in American Samoa, recognize the strategic 
importance of our location in the center of the Pacific Ocean and are 
proud of the contributions we make to our Nation's security.
  As always, we stand ready to do our part to advance the spirit of the 
Vice President's Pago Pago Declaration, which I expect will have a long 
lasting and positive effect on the region.
  I want to, once again, thank the Vice President and the 
administration for their attention to the Pacific territories, a region 
that too often goes unnoticed in Washington.

                          ____________________



