

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3559]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





  SENATE RESOLUTION 192--CONGRATULATING THE GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS FOR 
  THEIR HISTORIC CHAMPIONSHIP VICTORY IN THE 2017 NATIONAL BASKETBALL 
                           ASSOCIATION FINALS

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Ms. Harris) submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and agreed to:
  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a resolution 
recognizing and heartily commending the Golden State Warriors for their 
dazzling season and 2017 World Championship victory.
  After going 16 and 1 in the postseason, earning the highest win 
percentage in NBA playoff history, and defeating the Cleveland 
Cavaliers 129 to 120 in game five of the NBA Finals, the Warriors have 
become champions for the second time in just 3 years. The best part: 
they did something for their fans that had never been done before--they 
won the title at home, in Oracle Arena. As a bay area native myself, I 
know how much this means to all of Dub Nation.
  Everyone who is a part of the Warriors Organization--the video staff, 
the trainers, the owners, coaches, players and fans--deserves praise 
for a hard-fought and historic 2016 to 2017 season. The year was 
primarily marked by highs. Among my favorites was Klay Thompson's 
astonishing 29-minute, 60-point performance against the Indiana Pacers. 
And who could forget Steph Curry's mind-boggling, half-court buzzer-
beater against the Clippers?
  The Warriors undoubtedly played remarkable basketball this year, but 
they also overcame their share of obstacles. When Coach Kerr was forced 
to take a leave of absence, the team rallied behind him and, under Mike 
Brown's leadership, continued to earn wins in his honor. When starters 
were sidelined due to injury, bench players stepped in and stepped up, 
demonstrating the team's depth and heart. When the Warriors were 
knocked down by the Cavaliers in game four of the finals, they woke up 
the next morning, flew home, and got straight to work--running hours of 
drills so they could come back stronger in game five.
  The Warriors are a team with resolve and great character. They are 
highly focused but still manage to have fun together. They take care of 
each other, and equally as important, they take care of their 
community. The Warriors recognize that they are in a unique position to 
give back and effect positive change.
  Over the past several years, the Warriors Foundation has awarded $5 
million in grants to support educational initiatives in Alameda and San 
Francisco Counties. The foundation, along with individual players, has 
also refurbished over 60 basketball courts throughout the bay area, 
creating safe and beautiful places for our young people to play.
  So, to MVP Kevin Durant, Coach Kerr, Coach Brown, Joe Lacob, Peter 
Guber, Rick Welts, Bob Myers and all of the players, coaches, staff, 
family, friends and fans, I say thank you. Thank you for making 
California proud both on and off the court, and congratulations on a 
job well done.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the 
resolution be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the resolution was ordered to 
be printed in the Record, as follows:

                              S. Res. 192

       Whereas, on June 12, 2017, the Golden State Warriors 
     defeated the Cleveland Cavaliers by a score of 129-120 in an 
     extraordinary game 5 at Oracle Arena in Oakland, California, 
     to win the 2017 National Basketball Association (referred to 
     in the preamble as the ``NBA'') Finals;
       Whereas the Golden State Warriors captured their second 
     championship in 3 years, and their fifth championship in 
     franchise history;
       Whereas the 2017 championship victory marks the first time 
     a Bay Area professional sports team has clinched a 
     championship title at home in 43 years;
       Whereas in 2017 the Golden State Warriors had the NBA's 
     best regular-season record with 67 wins, capping an 
     extraordinary 3-year run, during which the Warriors won a 
     record-setting 207 regular season games;
       Whereas the Golden State Warriors finished the post-season 
     16-1, which constitutes the best post-season record in the 
     71-year history of the NBA;
       Whereas every single member of the 2016-2017 Golden State 
     Warriors team contributed to this championship, including 
     Matt Barnes, Ian Clark, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Draymond 
     Green, Andre Iguodala, Damian Jones, Shaun Livingston, Kevon 
     Looney, James Michael McAdoo, Patrick McCaw, JaVale McGee, 
     ZaZa Pachulia, Klay Thompson, and David West;
       Whereas Kevin Durant became just the sixth player to score 
     30 or more points in each game of a championship round, and 
     was named Most Valuable Player of the NBA Finals;
       Whereas Steve Kerr, Mike Brown, and the entire team of 
     coaches and staff have been instrumental in developing the 
     Golden State Warriors' dynamic and record-setting style of 
     play, and have fostered a positive, selfless team spirit;
       Whereas Joe Lacob and Peter Guber have built one of the 
     most exciting and high-performing franchises in NBA history;
       Whereas the dedicated fan base of Golden State Warriors has 
     offered unrelenting, passionate support to the team; and
       Whereas, both on and off the court, the Golden State 
     Warriors are an immense source of pride for the Bay Area and 
     the entire Golden State Warrior fan base: Now, therefore, be 
     it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) congratulates the Golden State Warriors for winning the 
     2017 National Basketball Association Finals;
       (2) recognizes the historic achievements of all the 
     players, coaches, and staff who contributed to the 2016-2017 
     season; and
       (3) celebrates the selfless teamwork and extraordinary 
     character, pride, determination, and hard-work of the Golden 
     State Warriors.

                          ____________________



