

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2877-S2878]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
  Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements of Section 
36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended, we are forwarding 
herewith Transmittal No. 17-21, concerning the Army's proposed 
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Government of the United Arab 
Emirates for defense articles and services estimated to cost $2.0 
billion. After this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to 
issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                      J. W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-21

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of the United Arab 
     Emirates (UAE).
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $1.0 billion.
       Other $1.0 billion.
       Total $2.0 billion.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Sixty (60) Patriot Advanced Capability 3 (PAC-3) Missiles 
     with canisters.
       One hundred (100) Patriot Guidance Enhanced Missile-
     Tactical (GEM-T) Missiles.
       Non-MDE includes:
       Also included are canisters, tools and test equipment, 
     support equipment, publications and technical documentation, 
     spare and repair parts, U.S. Government and contractor 
     technical, engineering and logistics support services, and 
     other related elements of logistics and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Army (AE-B-ZUG, Amendment 8).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: AE-B-ZUG.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: May 10, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

 Government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE)--Patriot PAC-3 and GEM-T 
                                Missiles

       The Government of the United Arab Emirates has requested 
     the possible sale of sixty (60) Patriot Advanced Capability 3 
     (PAC-3) missiles with canisters and one hundred (100) Patriot 
     Guidance Enhanced Missile-Tactical (GEM-T) missiles. Also 
     included are canisters, tools and test equipment, support 
     equipment, publications and technical documentation, spare 
     and repair parts, U.S. Government and contractor technical, 
     engineering and logistics support services, and other related 
     elements of logistics and program support. The estimated cost 
     is $2 billion.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security of the United States by improving the 
     security of an important ally which has been, and continues 
     to be, a force for political stability and economic progress 
     in the Middle East. This sale is consistent with U.S. 
     initiatives to provide key allies in the region with modern 
     systems that will enhance interoperability with U.S. forces 
     and increase security.
       The proposed sale will enhance the UAE's capability to meet 
     current and future aircraft and missile threats. The UAE will 
     use the capability as a deterrent to regional threats and to 
     strengthen its homeland defense. The UAE has fielded the 
     Patriot system since 2009 and will have no difficulty 
     absorbing these additional missiles into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of these missiles will not alter the 
     basic military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor for the PAC-3 Missile is Lockheed-
     Martin in Dallas, Texas. The prime contractor for the GEM-T 
     missile is Raytheon Company in Andover, Massachusetts. There 
     are no known offset agreements proposed in connection with 
     this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require 
     additional contractor representatives to the UAE. It is not 
     expected additional U.S. Government personnel will be 
     required in country for an extended period of time. U.S. Army 
     Aviation and Missile Life Cycle Management Command (AMCOM) 
     currently maintains a field office in UAE in support of UAE 
     Patriot systems.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-21

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 Missile Segment 
     Enhancement/Configuration-3 Ground Support Equipment (PAC-3 
     MSE/C-3) Air Defense System. The Patriot Advanced Capability-
     3/Configuration-3 Ground Support Equipment (PAC-3/C-3) Air 
     Defense System contains classified CONFIDENTIAL hardware 
     components, SECRET tactical software, and critical/sensitive 
     technology. The PAC-3 Missile Four-Pack and Guidance Enhanced 
     Missile (GEM-T) hardware is classified CONFIDENTIAL and the 
     associated launcher hardware is UNCLASSIFIED. The items 
     requested represent significant technological advances for 
     UAE. The PAC-3/C-3 Air Defense System continues to hold a 
     significant technology lead over other surface-to-air missile 
     systems in the world.
       2. The PAC-3/C-3 sensitive/critical technology is primarily 
     in the area of design and production know-how and primarily 
     inherent in the design, development and/or manufacturing data 
     related to the following components:
       a. Radar Enhancement Phase III (REP-3) Exciter Assemblies
       b. Radar Digital Processor
       c. Modern Adjunct Processor
       d. REP-3 Traveling Wave Tube
       e. Classification, Discrimination, and Identification-3 
     (CDI-3) Digital Signal Processor
       f. CDI-3 Analog/Digital Converters
       g. Hardware-in-the-Loop and Digital Simulations
       h. Surface Acoustic Wave (SAW) Oscillators
       i. PAC-3 Missile Guidance Processor Unit
       j. PAC-3 Seeker
       k. PAC-3 Missile Software
       l. PAC-3 MSE Software
       m. GEM-T Fuze
       n. GEM-T SAW Oscillator
       o. Selected areas of the Patriot Ground Equipment software
       p. Multiband Radio Frequency Datalink (MRFDL)

[[Page S2878]]

  

       3. Information on vulnerability to electronic 
     countermeasures and counter-countermeasures, system 
     performance capabilities and effectiveness, survivability and 
     vulnerability data, PAC-3 and GEM-T Missile seeker 
     capabilities, non-cooperative target recognition, low 
     observable technologies, select software/software 
     documentation and test data are classified up to and 
     including SECRET.
       4. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures which 
     might reduce weapons systems effectiveness or be used in the 
     development of a system with similar or advanced 
     capabilities.
       5. A determination has been made that the Government of the 
     UAE can provide substantially the same degree of protection 
     for the sensitive technology being released as the U.S. 
     Government. This proposed sustainment program is necessary to 
     the furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and national 
     security objectives outlined in the policy justification.
       6. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of the UAE.
                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-08, 
     concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of India for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $75 million. After this letter 
     is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news release 
     to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                      J.W. Rixley,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         transmittal no. 17-08

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of India.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $0 million.
       Other $75 million.
       Total $75 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
       Non-MDE include:
       Thirty-eight thousand thirty-four (38,034) M50 General 
     Purpose Masks.
       Joint Service Lightweight Integrated Suit Technology 
     (JSLIST) consisting of: Thirty-eight thousand thirty-four 
     (38,034) Suits, Thirty-eight thousand thirty-four (38,034) 
     Pairs of Trousers, Thirty-eight thousand thirty-four (38,034) 
     Pairs of Gloves, Thirty-eight thousand thirty-four (38,034) 
     Pairs of Boots, Thirty-eight thousand thirty-four (38,034) 
     NBC Bags, Eight hundred fifty-four (854) Aprons, Eight 
     hundred fifty-four (854) Alternative Aprons, Nine thousand 
     five hundred nine (9,509) Quick Doff Hood, One hundred 
     fourteen thousand one hundred two (114,102) M61 Filters.
       Also included is training, technical data, U.S. Government 
     technical assistance, staging/consolidation, and 
     transportation line.
       (iv) Military Department: Army.
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
       (vi) Sales Commission. Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Annex 
     Attached.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: May 10, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          policy justification

              Government of India--CBRN Support Equipment

       The Government of India (GoI) has requested a possible sale 
     of 38,034 M50 general purpose masks; Joint Service 
     Lightweight Integrated Suit Technology (JSLIST), which 
     consists of 38,034 each: suits, pairs of trousers, pairs of 
     gloves, pairs of boots and NBC bags; 854 aprons; 854 
     alternative aprons; 9,509 Quick Doff Hoods; and 114,102 M61 
     filters. Also included in the potential sale is training; 
     technical data; U.S. Government technical assistance; 
     staging/consolidation; transportation; and other related 
     elements of logistics support. The estimated cost is $75 
     million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security of the United States, by helping to 
     improve the security of a friendly country which has been, 
     and continues to be, an important force for political 
     stability and economic progress in South Asia.
       The GoI intends to use these defense articles and services 
     to modernize its armed forces. This will contribute to the 
     Indian military's goal to update its capability while 
     enhancing the relationship between India and the United 
     States. The GoI will have no difficulty absorbing these 
     defense articles into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The principal contractor involved in this program is Avon 
     Protection Systems, Inc., Cadillac, MI. At this time, there 
     are no known offset agreements proposed in connection with 
     this potential sale.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         transmittal no. 17-08

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The Joint Service lightweight Integrated Suit Technology 
     (JSLIST) is a chemical and biological protective garment 
     meant to be worn over the operational uniform of the user. It 
     has an outer shell made up of a 50% nylon and 50% cotton 
     poplin blend material with a water repellant finish. The 
     liner layer consists of a nonwoven front laminated to 
     activated carbon spheres and bonded to a tricot knit back 
     that absorbs chemical agents. When the JSLIST coat and 
     trousers are combined with boots, gloves, and a chemical 
     protective mask, JSLIST provides protection against chemical 
     and biological agents, radioactive fallout particles, and 
     battlefield contaminants. The highest level of information 
     that could be disclosed by the transfer of the JSLIST Suit is 
     UNCLASSIFIED. JSLIST is considered a U.S. military uniform 
     item, and as such, any unit being sold to Foreign Military 
     Sales customers will not utilize an actively used U.S. 
     military camouflage pattern in accordance with the Security 
     Assistance Management Manual (SAMM), Chapter 4, paragraph 
     4.5.6. and 10 USC Sec. 771.
       2. The M50 Joint Service General Purpose Mask is the U.S. 
     Armed Forces' field protective mask. The system used two M61 
     filters integrated into the air inlet system to protect 
     against nuclear, biological and chemical threats including 
     select toxic industrial chemicals. The highest level of 
     information that could be disclosed by the transfer of the 
     M50 is UNCLASSIFIED.
       3. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of India.

                          ____________________



