

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3997]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 1548. A bill to designate certain land administered by 
     the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service in the 
     State of Oregon as wilderness and national recreation areas 
     and to make additional wild and scenic river designations in 
     the State of Oregon, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 1549. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a safe harbor for determinations of worker 
     classification, to require increased reporting, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. STRANGE (for himself, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Rubio, and 
             Mr. Cotton):
       S. 1550. A bill to improve the authority of the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain physicians and other 
     employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr. McConnell):
       S. 1551. A bill to provide for the establishment of free 
     market enterprise zones in order to help facilitate the 
     creation of new jobs, entrepreneurial opportunities, enhanced 
     and renewed educational opportunities, and increased 
     community involvement in bankrupt or economically distressed 
     areas; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 1552. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow individuals to designate that up to 10 percent of 
     their income tax liability be used to reduce the national 
     debt, and to require spending reductions equal to the amounts 
     so designated; to the Committee on Finance .
           By Mr. JOHNSON:
       S. 1553. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     list fentanyl analogues as schedule I controlled substances; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Manchin, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1554. A bill to require certain practitioners authorized 
     to prescribe controlled substances to complete continuing 
     education; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 1555. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the administration of Post-9/11 Educational 
     Assistance by the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Daines, Mr. Udall, Ms. 
             Heitkamp, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Franken, and Ms. 
             Klobuchar):
       S. 1556. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to use designated funding to pay for construction of 
     authorized rural water projects, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 1557. An original bill making appropriations for 
     military construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
     and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
     2018, and for other purposes; from the Committee on 
     Appropriations; placed on the calendar.
           By Mr. RISCH:
       S. 1558. A bill to amend section 203 of Public Law 94-305 
     to ensure proper authority for the Office of Advocacy of the 
     Small Business Administration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. RISCH:
       S. 1559. A bill to ensure a complete analysis of the 
     potential impacts of rules on small entities; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 1560. A bill to ensure the integrity of border and 
     immigration enforcement efforts by requiring U.S. Customs and 
     Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement to administer law enforcement polygraph 
     examinations to all applicants for law enforcement positions 
     and to require post-hire polygraph examinations for law 
     enforcement personnel as part of periodic reinvestigations; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAIN:
       S. 1561. A bill to repeal the Jones Act restrictions on 
     coastwise trade, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr. Markey, Mr. Menendez, 
             Mr. Portman, Mr. Rubio, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 1562. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to the 
     Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and 
     any enablers of the activities of that Government, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 1563. A bill to authorize the Office of Fossil Energy to 
     develop advanced separation technologies for the extraction 
     and recovery of rare earth elements and minerals from coal 
     and coal byproducts, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Markey, 
             Mr. Coons, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Heinrich, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Booker, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Carper, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Franken, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Warner, Mr. Udall, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Reed, 
             Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Ms. Harris, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1564. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permit legally married same-sex couples to amend their 
     filing status for returns outside the 3-year limitation; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. FRANKEN:
       S. 1565. A bill to support the preparation and retention of 
     outstanding educators in all fields to ensure a bright future 
     for children in under-resourced, under-served communities in 
     the United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Manchin, 
             Ms. Hassan, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Franken, and Mr. 
             Peters):
       S. 1566. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     expand eligibility for mental health services from the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs to include members of the 
     reserve components of the Armed Forces, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 1567. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     disclose certain patient information to state controlled 
     substance monitoring programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



