

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3041-S3042]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 1171. A bill to keep girls in school around the world, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Portman, Mr. Murphy, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Merkley, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1172. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to foreign 
     persons responsible for gross violations of internationally 
     recognized human rights against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and 
     transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. PORTMAN:
       S. 1173. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit taking minors across State lines in circumvention of 
     laws requiring the involvement of parents in abortion 
     decisions; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LEAHY:
       S. 1174. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide that a deduction equal to fair market value shall 
     be allowed for charitable contributions of literary, musical, 
     artistic, or scholarly compositions created by the donor; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, and Ms. 
             Murkowski):
       S. 1175. A bill to protect Federal, State, and local public 
     safety officers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KING (for himself, Mr. Burr, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Manchin, Mr. Warner, Mr. Wicker, Mrs. Shaheen, and 
             Ms. Collins):
       S. 1176. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to establish a simplified income-driven repayment plan, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BLUNT:
       S. 1177. A bill to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     to require the annual human rights reports to include 
     information on the institutionalization of children and the 
     subjection of children to cruel, inhuman, or degrading 
     treatment, unnecessary detention, and denial of the right to 
     life, liberty, and the security of persons; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Wicker, 
             Mr. Burr, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Cotton, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. King, and Mr. Coons):
       S. 1178. A bill to realign structures and reallocate 
     resources in the Federal Government in keeping with the core 
     belief that families are the best protection for children and 
     the bedrock of any society to bolster United States diplomacy 
     targeted at ensuring that every child can grow up in a 
     permanent, safe, nurturing, and loving family, and to ensure 
     that intercountry adoption to the United States becomes a 
     viable and fully developed option for providing families for 
     children in need, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Sullivan, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Franken, Ms. Baldwin, 
             and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 1179. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to inter in 
     national cemeteries individuals who supported the United 
     States in Laos during the Vietnam War era, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 1180. A bill to advance the integration of clean 
     distributed energy into electric grids, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1181. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior and 
     Secretary of Agriculture to expedite access to certain 
     Federal land under

[[Page S3042]]

     the administrative jurisdiction of each Secretary for good 
     Samaritan search-and-recovery missions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Tillis, 
             Mr. Cotton, Mr. Tester, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Cassidy, 
             Mr. Manchin, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Capito, Ms. Murkowski, 
             Mr. Carper, Mr. King, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Moran, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Peters, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Graham, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Nelson, Mr. Daines, Mr. Sullivan, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. 
             Rounds, and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 1182. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
     mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th 
     anniversary of The American Legion; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 1183. A bill to establish a third-party quality system 
     assessment program; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Udall, 
             Mr. Franken, and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 1184. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978 to require individuals nominated or appointed to Senate-
     confirmed positions or to positions of a confidential or 
     policymaking character to disclose certain types of 
     contributions made or solicited by, or on behalf of, the 
     individuals; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. Collins, and Mr. 
             Durbin):
       S. 1185. A bill to increase public safety by punishing and 
     deterring firearms trafficking; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             Rubio, and Mr. Kennedy):
       S. 1186. A bill to authorize the Secretary of 
     Transportation to designate certain entities as centers of 
     excellence for domestic maritime workforce training and 
     education, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Toomey, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1187. A bill to designate the area between the 
     intersections of International Drive, Northwest and Van Ness 
     Street, Northwest and International Drive, Northwest and 
     International Place, Northwest in Washington, District of 
     Columbia, as ``Liu Xiaobo Plaza'', and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 1188. A bill to amend title XXIX of the Public Health 
     Service Act to reauthorize the program under such title 
     relating to lifespan respite care; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. Gardner, and Mr. 
             Franken):
       S. 1189. A bill to provide greater controls and 
     restrictions on revolving door lobbying; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



