

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2828-H2829]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HOMELAND SECURITY FOR CHILDREN ACT

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 1372) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to ensure 
that the needs of children are considered in homeland security 
planning, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1372

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Homeland Security for 
     Children Act''.

     SEC. 2. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR STRATEGY, 
                   POLICY, AND PLANS.

       Paragraph (6) of section 709(c) of the Homeland Security 
     Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 349(c)) is amended by inserting ``, 
     including feedback from organizations representing the needs 
     of children,'' after ``stakeholder feedback''.

     SEC. 3. TECHNICAL EXPERT AUTHORIZED.

       Paragraph (2) of section 503(b) of the Homeland Security 
     Act (6 U.S.C. 313(b)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (H), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(I) identify and integrate the needs of children into 
     activities to prepare for, protect against, respond to, 
     recover from, and mitigate against the risk of natural 
     disasters, acts of terrorism, and other manmade disasters, 
     including catastrophic incidents, including by appointing a 
     technical expert, who may consult with relevant outside 
     organizations and experts, as necessary, to coordinate such 
     integration, as necessary.''.

     SEC. 4. REPORT.

       Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act and annually thereafter for five years, the Under 
     Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans of the Department 
     of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
     the Senate a report describing the efforts the Department has 
     undertaken to review and incorporate feedback from 
     organizations representing the needs of children into 
     Department policy in accordance with paragraph (6) of section 
     709(c) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as added by 
     section 2 of this Act), including information on the 
     following:
       (1) The designation of any individual responsible for 
     carrying out such paragraph (6).
       (2) Any review, formal or informal, of Department policies, 
     programs, or activities to assess the suitability of such 
     policies, programs, or activities for children and where 
     feedback from organizations representing the needs of 
     children should be reviewed and incorporated.
       (3) Any review, change, modification, or promulgation of 
     Department policies, programs, or activities to ensure that 
     such policies, programs, or activities are appropriate for 
     children.
       (4) Coordination with organizations or experts outside the 
     Department pursuant to such paragraph (6) conducted to inform 
     any such review, change, modification, or promulgation of 
     such policies, programs, or activities.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Donovan) and the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Payne) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New York.


                             General Leave

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include any extraneous materials on the bill under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1372, the Homeland 
Security for Children Act.
  According to the U.S. Census Bureau, there are about 74 million 
children in the United States, and while we are constantly making 
progress to achieve national resilience in the face of the next 
emergency, we must continue to ensure special consideration is made to 
integrate emergency planning at the Department of Homeland Security 
that addresses the unique needs of children when emergencies arise. I 
want to thank Mr. Payne for introducing H.R. 1372, which will ensure 
such consideration is made.
  Recently, the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and 
Communications held a series of hearings focused on the progress and 
the future of achieving national preparedness in the face of events 
like Hurricane Katrina and Superstorm Sandy. Among the child safety 
efforts made in the last 10 years, FEMA created the National Emergency 
Child Locator Center within the National Center for Missing & Exploited 
Children to ensure the swift reunification of children should a major 
emergency displace communities.
  Mr. Speaker, I know this personally, having been an elected official 
on Staten Island during the tragedy in lower Manhattan in September of 
2001. All three bridges from Staten Island to New Jersey were closed, 
the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge was closed, and ferry service was stopped 
from Staten Island to Manhattan. We had many of our residents stuck at 
work in Manhattan. Their children were on Staten Island and could not 
be reached when being released from school.
  I know Mr. Payne can comment on this as well, but I just want to 
publicly thank him, because I experienced that myself.
  The subcommittee heard from weather-tested first responders who, 
among other important issues, stressed the importance of integrating 
the needs of children into emergency planning, reminding us that, after 
all, children are not just mini-adults.
  While DHS and FEMA have taken steps to elevate the safety of our most 
important populations, DHS can still do more to ensure Department 
policies, programs, and activities to prepare for, protect against, 
respond to, recover from, and mitigate against disasters, and also 
consider the needs of children throughout our impacted communities.
  By authorizing a children's needs technical expert at FEMA, as H.R. 
1372 seeks to do, we can make certain that the needs of children are 
integrated into emergency preparedness, protection, response, recovery, 
and mitigation activities.
  Further, H.R. 1372 will require DHS's Office of Strategy, Policy, and 
Plans to appropriately consider the needs of children throughout 
Departmental activities and report such efforts to Congress.
  H.R. 1372 provides peace of mind that the future of our most 
treasured assets, our children, are safe in the face of emergencies. 
Additionally, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that this 
legislation would not have a significant impact on the Federal budget.
  I want to thank Chairman Shuster of the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure and Chairman Barletta of the Transportation and 
Infrastructure's Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public 
Buildings, and Emergency Management for working with the Committee on 
Homeland Security to see that this legislation receives timely 
consideration on the House floor.
  As chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, 
and Communications, I am committed to ensuring FEMA has resources at 
its disposal to meet its mission of safeguarding a more resilient 
nation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my fellow Members to join me in supporting 
this bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.

         Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, House of 
           Representatives,
                                   Washington, DC, March 10, 2017.
     Hon. Michael T. McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman McCaul: I write concerning H.R. 1372, the 
     ``Homeland Security for Children Act.'' This legislation 
     includes matters that fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
       In order to expedite Floor consideration of H.R. 1372, the 
     Committee on Transportation

[[Page H2829]]

     and Infrastructure will forgo action on this bill. However, 
     this is conditional on our mutual understanding that forgoing 
     consideration of the bill does not prejudice the Committee 
     with respect to the appointment of conferees or to any future 
     jurisdictional claim over the subject matters contained in 
     the bill or similar legislation that fall within the 
     Committee's Rule X jurisdiction. I request you urge the 
     Speaker to name members of the Committee to any conference 
     committee named to consider such provisions.
       Please place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest in the 
     Congressional Record during House Floor consideration of the 
     bill. I look forward to working with the Committee on 
     Homeland Security as the bill moves through the legislative 
     process.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Bill Shuster,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Homeland Security,

                                   Washington, DC, March 16, 2017.
     Hon. Bill Shuster,
     Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Shuster: Thank you for your letter regarding 
     H.R. 1372, the ``Homeland Security for Children Act''. I 
     appreciate your support in bringing this legislation before 
     the House of Representatives, and accordingly, understand 
     that the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure will 
     waive further consideration of the bill.
       The Committee on Homeland Security concurs with the mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing a action on this bill at this 
     time, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure does 
     not waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained 
     in this bill or similar legislation in the future. In 
     addition, should a conference on this bill be necessary, I 
     would support your request to have the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure represented on the 
     conference committee.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during consideration of this bill on the House floor, 
     I thank you for your cooperation in this matter.
           Sincerely,

                                            Michael T. McCaul,

                                                         Chairman,
                                   Committee on Homeland Security.

  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1372, the Homeland 
Security for Children Act.
  Mr. Speaker, children are not tiny adults, as was stated, but too 
often that is how the Federal policy treats them when there is not a 
deliberate effort to do otherwise.
  The Department of Homeland Security, through its components, 
interacts with children regularly, and its policies have a direct 
impact on them. That is why I introduced H.R. 1372, the Homeland 
Security for Children Act.
  H.R. 1372 would make integrating the unique needs of children a 
priority at the Department of Homeland Security. The bill directs the 
DHS Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans to solicit and 
incorporate feedback from children's organizations into Department-wide 
policies and activities.
  Additionally, H.R. 1372 would formally authorize the existing 
children's technical expert position at the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency. The position was established by former Administrator 
Fugate in response to a March 2015 recommendation by the FEMA National 
Advisory Council.
  At the time, the National Advisory Council had concluded that FEMA 
had made progress integrating the unique needs of children into 
disaster plans since Hurricane Katrina, despite the fact that it did 
not have a technical lead to emphasize and address children's issues. 
As a result, State and local governments and emergency managers were 
unaware of guidance related to children's needs at the State and local 
level, leaving children vulnerable.
  According to Save the Children, 80 percent of the National Commission 
on Children and Disasters' recommendations from 2010 still remain open. 
Whatever progress has been made in integrating the needs of children in 
disasters, it is clear there is still work left to be done.
  H.R. 1372 will ensure FEMA and DHS has the expertise necessary to do 
its part to ensure the unique needs of children are integrated into 
relevant activities, plans, and policies.
  The legislation has been endorsed by Save the Children, and former 
Administrator Fugate has said he supports efforts to authorize the 
children's needs technical expert at FEMA.
  Mr. Speaker, the Homeland Security for Children Act is commonsense, 
bipartisan legislation that will ensure that the needs of the most 
vulnerable among us are adequately integrated into homeland security 
and disaster policies planning.
  I would like to just state, Mr. Speaker, that this bill has been a 
long time coming. I was just reminded of its importance by a program 
that I watched on television the other day about the tornadoes in 
Oklahoma, where we lost 7 children in a school building that fell. It 
showed the disarray in the rest of the parents being able to be 
reunited with their children. This is a timely bill.
  Before I yield back, I would like to thank Transportation and 
Infrastructure Committee Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio 
for agreeing to exchange letters to expedite consideration of H.R. 1372 
on the floor.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I once again urge my colleagues to support 
H.R. 1372, as amended, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Donovan) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1372, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



