

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5425]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      HONORING MR. CLARENCE GOODEN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Mast). Under the Speaker's announced 
policy of January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Rutherford) 
is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor the 
great community stewardship of Mr. Clarence Gooden, recently retired 
president of the CSX Railroad.
  In 2003, Mr. Speaker, I was newly elected sheriff of the city of 
Jacksonville, Florida, and my wife, Pat, and I were invited to a 
Christmas dinner hosted by Mr. Clarence Gooden and his wife, Corkie.
  It was during my discussions surrounding my new position as sheriff 
that I shared with Clarence and his wife how drug dealers had taken 
over Mallison Park, which in years past was actually the crown jewel of 
parks in the city of Jacksonville. I explained to them how the park 
manager had been severely battered by drug dealers, and though we had 
made several arrests in the park, the dealers continued to return, and 
the children were being denied the use of this great park.
  Mr. Speaker, I also shared with him a campaign promise that I had 
made to help at-risk youth through an expansion of an intervention 
program called the Police Athletic League into areas such as Mallison 
Park, which would offer at-risk youth sports programs, after-school 
tutoring, food, and personal hygiene, all provided by specialized 
officers trained in intervention.
  Clarence asked me the cost of such an expansion, and I informed him 
it would be close to $100,000 to refurbish and move programs into 
Mallison Park. He immediately responded, Mr. Speaker, that he would 
raise those funds by April. I reminded him it was already the end of 
December, but he and Corkie assured me that they would meet an April 
deadline.
  Incredibly, Clarence devised a plan for what became known as the CSX 
Charity Train Ride, which entailed a fundraiser that gave contributors 
an amazing train ride with dinner and entertainment. The event was a 
first-class success, and Clarence had raised all the funds necessary to 
refurbish Mallison Park and move the Police Athletic League into those 
new facilities. Their efforts led to an over 40 percent drop in violent 
crime within a 1-mile radius of Mallison Park.
  Over the years, the CSX Charity Train Ride grew into one of the 
largest single charity events in northeast Florida, and it continued to 
add additional charity recipients every year.
  Mr. Speaker, Clarence and Corkie, with the assistance of Mrs. 
Rosemary Thigpen, have raised, to date, over $4 million for over 10 
local charities. Last year alone, they raised over $400,000 for 
charities, including Angelwood, the Police Athletic League, and the 
American Heart Association, just to name a few. Not only does he have a 
huge heart for the community, but he never lost his concern for others 
as he worked his way up throughout his career.
  Mr. Speaker, Clarence actually began as a laborer at Seaboard 
Coastline Railroad before it became CSX, and he worked his way up the 
ranks to the president's office of a tier one railroad. He recently 
retired from CSX, and I know he will continue to have passion for 
others.
  I appreciate his dedication to the citizens of northeast Florida. I 
am sure I echo the thoughts of all when I wish him and Corkie continued 
good health and happiness in both his retirement and all of their 
future endeavors.
  Mr. Speaker, I look forward to seeing Mr. Gooden soon and presenting 
him with this coin as a token of the tremendous appreciation from all 
of those in the Fourth District whose lives Mr. Gooden, Mrs. Gooden, 
and CSX have touched.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



