

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4664-S4665]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            MORNING BUSINESS

                                 ______
                                 

                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-29, 
     concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of the Republic of Iraq for 
     defense articles and services estimated to cost $150 million. 
     After this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to 
     issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed 
     sale.
           Sincerely,
                                               Gregory M. Kausner,
                                                  Acting Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-29

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: The Republic of Iraq.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $0 million.
       Other $150 million.
       Total $150 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Non-MDE:
       Follow-On Technical Support (FOTS) for various U.S.-origin 
     navy vessels and a ship repair facility in Iraq to include 
     procurement of spare and repair parts, support and test 
     equipment, publications and technical documentation, 
     personnel training equipment, engineering and logistics 
     support services and other related elements of logistics and 
     program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Navy (XX-P-GAS).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: GAL, 20 May 14; GAM, 20 
     May 14; GAO, 3 Nov 16.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: August 1, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

 Republic of Iraq--Follow-On Technical Support (FOTS) for U.S. Origin 
                Navy Vessels and a Ship Repair Facility

       The Government of Iraq has requested a possible sale of 
     Follow-On Technical Support

[[Page S4665]]

     (FOTS) for various U.S.-origin navy vessels and a ship repair 
     facility in Iraq to include procurement of spare and repair 
     parts, support and test equipment, publications and technical 
     documentation, personnel training equipment, engineering and 
     logistics support services, and other related elements of 
     logistics and program support. The estimated total program 
     value is $150 million.
       The proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy and 
     national security of the United States by helping to provide 
     for a stable, sovereign, and democratic Iraq, capable of 
     combating terrorism and protecting its people and 
     sovereignty.
       Iraq intends to use this maintenance support to ensure the 
     Navy is fully-operationally capable of providing coastal 
     defense and security. The various vessels to be supported 
     are: patrol boats, offshore support vessels, fast assault 
     boats, and Rigid Hull Inflatable Boats. The proposed sale of 
     Follow-On Technical Support will increase the Iraq Navy's 
     material and operational readiness. Iraq will have no 
     difficulty absorbing this support into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this support will not alter the basic 
     military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor will be Swiftships, LLC, Morgan City, 
     LA. There are no known offset agreements proposed in 
     connection with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require annual 
     trips to Iraq and in-country presence involving U.S. 
     Government and contractor representatives for technical 
     reviews, support and oversight for approximately three years.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.

                          ____________________



