

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4638-H4640]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       CONDEMNING TERRORIST ATTACKS IN MANCHESTER, UNITED KINGDOM

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
agree to the resolution (H. Res. 355) condemning in the strongest terms 
the terrorist attacks in Manchester, United Kingdom, on May 22, 2017, 
expressing heartfelt condolences, and reaffirming unwavering support 
for the special relationship between our peoples and nations in the 
wake of these attacks, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
  The text of the resolution is as follows:

                              H. Res. 355

       Whereas, on May 22, 2017, a terrorist triggered improvised 
     explosive devices at the Manchester Arena following the 
     conclusion of a concert by American recording artist Ariana 
     Grande;
       Whereas the blasts took the lives of at least 22 people, 
     and seriously injured 59, many of whom were children;
       Whereas British officials are continuing to investigate the 
     bombing to determine whether it was perpetrated by a lone 
     individual or by a terrorist network;
       Whereas, on May 23, 2017, the Islamic State of Iraq and 
     Syria (ISIS) claimed responsibility for the attacks and 
     threatened further attacks;
       Whereas on June 3, 2017, three terrorists drove a van into 
     pedestrians on London Bridge before committing multiple 
     stabbing attacks against innocent bystanders in the Borough 
     Market area of London;
       Whereas British police quickly arrived at the scene and 
     successfully ended the terrorist attack;
       Whereas at least seven people were killed, and more than 48 
     wounded in the terrorist attack;
       Whereas British police continue to investigate the incident 
     to ensure that all involved in planning or supporting the 
     attack are brought to justice;
       Whereas the horrific attacks at the Manchester Arena and in 
     London are the latest in a series of deadly assaults by ISIS 
     in Europe in recent years;
       Whereas British first responders reacted swiftly and 
     heroically to both attacks, taking immediate measures to 
     secure the areas and care for the wounded in ways that 
     prevented further loss of life;
       Whereas Prime Minister Theresa May stated on May 23, 2017, 
     that ``all acts of terrorism are cowardly attacks on innocent 
     people but this attack stands out for its appalling, 
     sickening cowardice, deliberately targeting innocent, 
     defenseless children and young people'' and paid tribute to 
     ``the spirit of Manchester and the spirit of Britain, a 
     spirit that through years of conflict and terrorism has never 
     been broken and will never be broken.'';
       Whereas President Donald Trump condemned those who 
     perpetrated the attacks and offered any and all assistance to 
     the United Kingdom as it investigates these attacks and works 
     to bring the terrorists to justice; and
       Whereas the United Kingdom has been a steadfast ally to the 
     United States: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
       (1) condemns the recent terrorist attacks in Manchester, 
     United Kingdom, on May 22, 2017, and in London, United 
     Kingdom, on June 3, 2017, and extends its deepest sympathies 
     to all those affected by these tragedies;
       (2) reaffirms the American commitment to the special 
     relationship with the United Kingdom, and supports the 
     efforts of the British Government to bring all those involved 
     with these heinous attacks to justice;
       (3) appreciates the significant efforts by the United 
     Kingdom to combat terrorism;
       (4) recognizes the persistent and growing threat posed by 
     Islamist terrorist groups worldwide, and reaffirms the 
     commitment of

[[Page H4639]]

     the United States to the multilateral, global fight against 
     such violent extremists; and
       (5) remains committed to the defense of universal 
     democratic values.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentleman from New York (Mr. Espaillat) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include any extraneous material on this measure.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to recognize Congressman Gregory Meeks, the 
ranking member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats 
Subcommittee; and Congressman Paul Cook, the vice chairman of the House 
Foreign Affairs Committee. I recognize them for their work on this 
timely and important resolution.
  On May 22, as the world knows, in a cowardly act of terrorism, a 
suicide bomber attacked those exiting a concert at the Manchester Arena 
in England. These were principally teenagers and children who were 
attending that concert, in some cases, parents. What many had planned 
to be a night of joy, a festival, a chance for them to gather to 
celebrate turned with one horrifying blast into a nightmare of chaos 
and devastation, and 23 innocent people were killed, 166 were severely 
injured, and many of those victims were children.
  This past week, in another cowardly attack, terrorists struck 
unsuspecting and unarmed pedestrians on London Bridge, and then those 
terrorists went on an attack against innocent bystanders in London's 
Borough Market area, slashing and killing, and thus far, at least 7 
victims have died and 48 have been seriously wounded. We grieve their 
loss and send our prayers and condolences to their families.
  We also commend the brave and selfless actions of British first 
responders who, in the wake of both attacks, moved to quickly secure 
the areas, aid the wounded, and prevent further loss of life.
  Our deranged enemies, it is clear, are intent on striking us wherever 
and whenever possible, often choosing to prey upon the most vulnerable, 
the most innocent in our society, preying, in this case, on children 
and teenagers. We must be even more determined in our resolve to stop 
them and we must continue to build upon our own capabilities, 
strengthening our cooperation with our friends and allies like the 
United Kingdom.
  Mr. Speaker, the United Kingdom has been a staunch friend and ally, 
unparalleled in its support for the United States, including as a 
partner in our counterterrorism efforts. At this sad time, we stand 
solidly beside our friends and allies as they mourn, heal, and most 
assuredly rise again following this tragedy. Passage of this resolution 
is just one way that we can demonstrate this support.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in unanimously 
supporting this measure, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H. Res. 355. This 
resolution was submitted by the gentleman from New York (Mr. Meeks) and 
the gentleman from California (Mr. Cook). It is a strong message 
condemning in the strongest terms the most recent terrorist attacks in 
Manchester and London. We worked quickly in the committee to pass this 
resolution in a bipartisan way. I thank Chairman Royce and Ranking 
Member Engel again for their bipartisan efforts.

                              {time}  1730

  I would like to lend my voice of condolence to the families and 
friends of those who were killed and injured. I pray that the 
Manchester and London communities remain resilient and continue their 
beautiful human display of kindness in the depths of such tragedy.
  I read numerous human stories about neighbors, faith leaders, and 
local businessmen and -women coming together to aid their fellow 
citizens with open arms and compassionate hearts. The people of 
Manchester, London, and the U.K. in general show the rest of the world 
how to persevere in the face of terror.
  Finally, let us remember that the attacks are directed at our open 
societies that we have built over many generations. Let us remember 
that our response will set the tone for not only the security of the 
present day but also the faith in such open societies and the 
unbreakable bonds of community for years to come.
  We will continue to work in the Foreign Affairs Committee to bring 
about justice and encourage peace. The United States admires the 
Manchester and London response of stoicism, openheartedness, and 
solidarity.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Holding), chairman of the British-
American Parliamentary Group and co-chairman of the Congressional 
United Kingdom Caucus, and he also has strong family ties in Britain.
  Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Royce for yielding me 
time, and I rise in strong support of this resolution condemning the 
terror attacks in the United Kingdom.
  Mr. Speaker, the senseless acts of terror that took place in 
Manchester and London are stark reminders of the threat our allies and 
our Nation face together. These horrific attacks require strong and 
coordinated response to not only bring the perpetrators and their 
enablers to justice but also to combat global terrorism.
  Mr. Speaker, Congress stands ready to support our colleagues in 
Parliament with any assistance necessary. The special relationship that 
bonds our two nations and peoples is unlike any other relationship that 
we enjoy.
  I am reminded of the events 73 years ago today when the United States 
stood with Great Britain to execute the largest amphibious landing ever 
assembled in order to liberate Europe. Our task in fighting terrorism 
is no less daunting.
  I appreciate the efforts here today by the House to condemn these 
acts of terror and reaffirm our unwavering support for the special 
relationship that we enjoy with the United Kingdom.
  Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, the British people are well known for 
their stiff upper lip, their resolve, and resilience. We have seen all 
these traits on display in the recent days in the proud European cities 
of Manchester and London as the dead are mourned, the injured are 
nursed to health, and the guilty are pursued.
  Life must and will go on, and the United Kingdom will remain the 
beacon of freedom, tolerance, and justice. I am glad we took this time 
today to send this strong message of solidarity to the people of the 
U.K. Through the years, they have long stood by us, and we are proud of 
their friendship. We call them our friends. I support this measure and 
trust the House will do the same.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Poe), chairman of the Foreign Affairs' 
Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me 
time and for his work on this very important resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, last month, as fans streamed out of a concert in 
Manchester, they were met by the worst kind of despicable treachery. A 
terrorist lay in wait with his time bomb to inflict maximum damage on 
people, killing as many as he could and creating fear among survivors. 
Twenty-two innocent people were slaughtered, including many children.
  The attack claimed by ISIS thugs was, unfortunately, not the last to 
hit the United Kingdom. Over the weekend, terrorists attacked innocent 
civilians in London, killing 7 and wounding at least 48 others.
  Free countries cannot and must not tolerate these attacks and must 
not ever accept these attacks as the norm. We must defeat the cancer of 
Islamic

[[Page H4640]]

terrorism and the perverted thinking that inspires it.
  I strongly support this resolution which condemns the attack in 
Manchester and expresses our support to the people of the United 
Kingdom. We will and must continue to stand together with the United 
Kingdom for many reasons, but the main reason being the bond of freedom 
that we have shared for so many years. We must stand together to combat 
and defeat those who seek to attack freedom and liberty and destroy our 
way of life. They must not win.
  Mr. Speaker, I offer my sincere condolences to the victims of the 
attacks in the United Kingdom and their families. This evil cannot be 
allowed to continue without a bold response.
  Mr. Speaker, justice demands that we track down these terrorists and 
hold them accountable for their evil deeds whenever and wherever they 
attack. Justice must be served because, Mr. Speaker, justice is what 
free people demand.
  And that is just the way it is.
  Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, following the killing in London this past weekend, 
British Prime Minister May compared the attacks in Manchester and those 
in the capital, and she said: `` . . . while the recent attacks are not 
connected by common networks, they are connected in one important 
sense. They are bound together by the single evil ideology of Islamist 
extremism that preaches hatred, sows division, and promotes 
sectarianism.''
  ``Defeating this ideology is one of the great challenges of our time. 
. . .''
  Those were the Prime Minister's words.
  We are committed to standing with our British friends and allies in 
this important fight. This resolution signals our resolve to deepen our 
collaboration with our friends and allies in the United Kingdom to 
counter terrorism and to counter radicalization.
  Mr. Speaker, I, therefore, urge my colleagues to join me in unanimous 
support of this resolution, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 
355, which expresses the condolences of the United States to the 
twenty-two innocent victims who lost their lives and the fifty-nine 
individuals who were seriously injured in the barbaric attack 
perpetrated by a terrorist in Manchester, United Kingdom.
  Mr. Speaker, I support this resolution's condemnation of this 
terrorist attack for the depraved, cowardly act that it is.
  Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and loved ones of the 
victims.
  Moreover, our heartfelt appreciation goes out to the first responders 
and others who selflessly came to the aid of those affected by this 
act.
  Manchester will emerge from the attack more vibrant and united than 
ever before with the same resiliency that has enabled it to grow and 
evolve from the ``birthplace of the Industrial Revolution'' to the 
modern, progressive, and welcoming metropolis that it is today.
  As Manchester recovers and responds, I hope that Mancunians and 
Britons as a whole will take comfort in the knowledge that the people 
of the United States stand in solidarity with them.
  This attack is a reminder of the common danger that democratic, 
peace-loving nations of the world face from those who reject the norms 
of civilized society and abuse the liberties and freedoms afforded them 
by free societies.
  This terrorist attack in Manchester was a horrific act on innocent 
civilians perpetrated by a depraved individual who had the support of 
those who misuse the peaceful religion of Islam for their own misguided 
purposes.
  Those who claim responsibility for this crime against humanity should 
make no mistake; they will be held accountable for their actions.
  Today, however, our thoughts and prayers are with the people of 
Manchester, a city that represents everything terrorists despise--that 
is, a place that welcomes people from all walks of life to live 
together in harmony.
  That symbol is recognizable to Americans, because we are a society 
formed by diverse individuals intertwined to create a mosaic that is 
altogether lovely, strong, and unique.
  Given our special relationship with the United Kingdom, the people of 
the United States of America offer our unwavering support to the people 
of Manchester and of the United Kingdom.
  Today, I ask a moment of silence for the victims killed and injured 
in the terrorist attack in Manchester.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) that the House suspend the rules 
and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 355, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



