

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3732-S3733]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. 
Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that 
the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 256

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 256, a bill to 
establish the Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond to Health and Wellness 
Training pilot program to address human trafficking in the health care 
system.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill 
to require Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and 
reports in electronic form.


                                 S. 424

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 424, a bill to amend title 
5, United States Code, to include certain Federal positions within the 
definition of law enforcement officer for retirement purposes, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 474, a bill to condition 
assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian 
Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of States to tax 
certain income of employees for employment duties performed in other 
States.


                                 S. 584

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 584, a bill to amend chapter 
6 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act), to ensure complete analysis of potential impacts on 
small entities of rules, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 622

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 622, a bill to preserve 
open competition and Federal Government neutrality towards the labor 
relations of Federal Government contractors on Federal and federally 
funded construction projects.


                                 S. 804

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 804, a bill 
to improve the provision of health care for women veterans by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 856

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 856, a bill 
to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 and the Jeanne Clery 
Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act to 
combat campus sexual assault, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 976

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 976, a bill to restore 
States' sovereign rights to enforce State and local sales and use tax 
laws, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to reform the rights and 
processes relating to appeals of decisions regarding claims for 
benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Mr. Cochran, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1104

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1104, a bill to require 
the Federal Communications Commission to establish a methodology for 
the collection by the Commission of information about commercial mobile 
service and commercial mobile data service, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1196

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. 
Heitkamp) were added as cosponsors of S. 1196, a bill to expand the 
capacity and capability of the ballistic missile defense system of the 
United States, and for other purposes.

[[Page S3733]]

  



                                S. 1296

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1296, a bill to 
amend the Uniform Code of Military Justice to prohibit the wrongful 
broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images.


                                S. 1303

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1303, a bill 
to prohibit discrimination in adoption or foster care placements based 
on the sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of any 
prospective adoptive or foster parent, or the sexual orientation or 
gender identity of the child involved.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1311, a bill to provide assistance in abolishing human 
trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1313

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1313, a bill to 
reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1315

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1315, a bill to require the 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to amend its regulations 
relating to qualified mortgages, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable tax 
provisions.


                                S. 1350

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1350, a bill to 
amend the National Labor Relations Act with respect to the timing of 
elections and pre-election hearings and the identification of pre-
election issues, and to require that lists of employees eligible to 
vote in organizing elections be provided to the National Labor 
Relations Board.


                                S. 1366

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1366, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Defense to review the discharge characterization of former 
members of the Armed Forces who were discharged by reason of the sexual 
orientation of the member, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1368

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1368, a bill to 
reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1369

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1369, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish an excise tax on certain 
prescription drugs which have been subject to a price spike, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1377

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1377, a bill to remove the 
limitation on certain amounts for which large non-rural hospitals may 
be reimbursed under the Healthcare Connect Fund of the Federal 
Communications Commission, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1379

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1379, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permit fellowship and stipend 
compensation to be saved in an individual retirement account.


                                S. 1389

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1389, a bill to allow the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
Protection to provide greater protection to servicemembers.


                                S. 1393

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1393, a bill to streamline the process by which 
active duty military, reservists, and veterans receive commercial 
driver's licenses.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 7, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt fraternal 
benefit societies have historically provided and continue to provide 
critical benefits to the people and communities of the United States.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who 
served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of 
Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on 
May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of 
Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                              S. RES. 102

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) 
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 102, a resolution reaffirming the 
strategic partnership between the United States and Mexico, and 
recognizing bilateral cooperation that advances the national security 
and national interests of both countries.


                              S. RES. 195

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 195, a resolution 
recognizing June 20, 2017, as ``World Refugee Day''.

                          ____________________



