

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3765-S3766]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 16

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 16, a bill to require a full 
audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
Federal reserve banks by the Comptroller General of the United States, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 445, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to ensure more timely access to home health services for 
Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 480

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 480, a bill 
to reauthorize the Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal 
Stamp.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Vermont

[[Page S3766]]

(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise section 
48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 765

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 765, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to provide for penalties for the sale of any 
Purple Heart awarded to a member of the Armed Forces.


                                 S. 816

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 816, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow rollovers from 529 programs to 
ABLE accounts.


                                 S. 822

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 822, a bill to 
amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 to modify provisions relating to grants, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1109

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1109, a bill to amend 
title VIII of the Public Health Service Act to extend advanced 
education nursing grants to support clinical nurse specialist programs, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1146

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1146, a bill to enhance the 
ability of the Office of the National Ombudsman to assist small 
businesses in meeting regulatory requirements and develop outreach 
initiatives to promote awareness of the services the Office of the 
National Ombudsman provides, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1238

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1238, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to increase and make permanent the 
exclusion for benefits provided to volunteer firefighters and emergency 
medical responders.


                                S. 1286

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1286, a bill to 
lift the trade embargo on Cuba.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1311, a bill to provide assistance in 
abolishing human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1312, a bill to prioritize the fight against human 
trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1330

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1330, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize a dependent to 
transfer entitlement to Post-9/11 Education Assistance in cases in 
which the dependent received the transfer of such entitlement to 
assistance from an individual who subsequently died, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1350

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1350, a bill to 
amend the National Labor Relations Act with respect to the timing of 
elections and pre-election hearings and the identification of pre-
election issues, and to require that lists of employees eligible to 
vote in organizing elections be provided to the National Labor 
Relations Board.


                                S. 1354

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1354, a bill to establish an Individual Market 
Reinsurance fund to provide funding for State individual market 
stabilization reinsurance programs.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse 
practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, 
intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1393

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1393, a bill to 
streamline the process by which active duty military, reservists, and 
veterans receive commercial driver's licenses.


                                S. 1414

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1414, a bill to state the 
policy of the United States on the minimum number of available battle 
force ships.


                              S.J. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 5, a joint resolution removing the deadline for 
the ratification of the equal rights amendment.


                              S.J. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 6, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relative to equal rights for men and women.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who served in 
the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of Vietnam 
during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 
1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of Vietnam for 
all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.

                          ____________________



