

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5830-H5832]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. McNERNEY:
       H.R. 3216. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require the disclosure of the total number of a 
     company's domestic and foreign employees; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. McNERNEY:
       H.R. 3217. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the identification of corporate tax haven 
     countries and increased penalties for tax evasion practices 
     in haven countries that ship United States jobs overseas, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             McCarthy, Mr. Messer, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Mullin, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Wenstrup, Mrs. Radewagen, 
             Mr. Cook, Mr. McKinley, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Bost, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Dunn, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Walberg, Mr. 
             Coffman, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. 
             Peters, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Peterson, Mr. O'Rourke, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mrs. 
             Davis of California, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Butterfield, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Titus, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. 
             Richmond, and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 3218. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make certain improvements in the laws administered by the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. GRANGER:
       H.R. 3219. A bill making appropriations for the Department 
     of Defense for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and 
     for other purposes.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, and Mr. Holding):
       H.R. 3220. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to preserve taxpayers' rights to administrative appeal 
     of deficiency determinations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer):
       H.R. 3221. A bill to provide exemptions under the Truth in 
     Lending Act and the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, 
     and Enforcement Act of 1989 to encourage access to affordable 
     mortgages, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Huffman, Ms. Speier, Mr. Evans, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Pallone, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             McCollum, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Keating, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Payne, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Carbajal, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Welch, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Engel, Mr. Aguilar, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Mr. Polis, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Price of North Carolina, 
             Mr. Peters, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Hastings, and Ms. 
             Tsongas):
       H.R. 3222. A bill to amend the Religious Freedom 
     Restoration Act of 1993 to protect civil rights and otherwise 
     prevent meaningful harm to third parties, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DUNN (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, 
             Mr. Donovan, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Faso, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, and Mr. Ross):
       H.R. 3223. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the statute of limitations on making a claim 
     for credit or

[[Page H5831]]

     refund and shorten the statute of limitations on collection 
     after assessment; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Palazzo, and Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 3224. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to clarify reasonable costs for critical access 
     hospital payments under the Medicare program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself and Mr. Walden):
       H.R. 3225. A bill to allow the Confederated Tribes of Coos, 
     Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians, the Confederated Tribes of 
     the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon, the Confederated Tribes 
     of Siletz Indians of Oregon, the Confederated Tribes of Warm 
     Springs, and the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians to 
     lease or transfer certain lands; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico (for herself, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Sablan, and Ms. 
             Plaskett):
       H.R. 3226. A bill to extend the supplemental security 
     income program to Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin 
     Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Ms. Bass, Mr. Ellison, 
             Mr. Rush, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Polis, and Ms. Lee):
       H.R. 3227. A bill to improve Federal sentencing and 
     corrections practices, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Financial Services, Energy and Commerce, and Homeland 
     Security, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIMES:
       H.R. 3228. A bill to require the President to provide 
     frequent press briefings covering the official business of 
     the President to the White House press corps; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself, Mr. Issa, and Mr. 
             Conyers):
       H.R. 3229. A bill to protect the safety of judges by 
     extending the authority of the Judicial Conference to redact 
     sensitive information contained in their financial disclosure 
     reports, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. LABRADOR (for himself, Mr. Simpson, and Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina):
       H.R. 3230. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 915 Center Avenue in 
     Payette, Idaho, as the ``Harmon Killebrew Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. LONG:
       H.R. 3231. A bill to amend title X of the Public Health 
     Service Act with respect to adoption and other pregnancy 
     options counseling; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. Babin, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Correa, Mr. Crawford, 
             Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Budd, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Bishop 
             of Michigan, Mr. Kind, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Barr, 
             Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Posey, 
             Mr. Bergman, and Mr. Brown of Maryland):
       H.R. 3232. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     establish a separation oath for members of the Armed Forces 
     who are separating from military service; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Ms. Kaptur):
       H.R. 3233. A bill to promote fair trade, allow for greater 
     participation in trade enforcement, and improve 
     accountability and transparency in trade matters; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NEAL (for himself, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Carbajal, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Connolly, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Levin, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Lynch, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Nadler, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Peters, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Vargas, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, and Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 3234. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to permit legally married same-sex couples to amend 
     their filing status for returns outside the 3-year 
     limitation; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Mr. Cramer, and Mr. 
             Peterson):
       H.R. 3235. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 
     with respect to the administration of wetland determinations, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. NUNES (for himself and Mr. Upton):
       H.R. 3236. A bill to amend titles XI and XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act to improve provider and supplier cost 
     reporting of ambulance services under the Medicare program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROHRABACHER:
       H.R. 3237. A bill to require the Secretary of State to 
     withhold certain assistance for Honduras until the President 
     certifies to Congress that the Government of Honduras has 
     settled all known commercial disputes with United States 
     citizens; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SANFORD (for himself, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Zeldin, 
             Mr. Engel, and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 3238. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to provide assistance for 
     common interest communities, condominiums, and housing 
     cooperatives damaged by a major disaster, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Gallego, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Sherman, Miss Rice of New York, Ms. Kaptur, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Kind, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Messer, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Heck, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Cummings, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Veasey, Ms. Norton, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
             Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Payne, 
             Mr. Cooper, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cole, Mr. Nadler, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Clyburn, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Higgins 
             of New York, Ms. Bonamici, and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H.R. 3239. A bill to amend the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to 
     revise the criteria for determining which States and 
     political subdivisions are subject to section 4 of the Act, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 3240. A bill to improve the productivity and energy 
     efficiency of the manufacturing sector by directing the 
     Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the National 
     Academies and other appropriate Federal agencies, to develop 
     a national smart manufacturing plan and to provide assistance 
     to small- and medium-sized manufacturers in implementing 
     smart manufacturing programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Kildee, Ms. Moore, Mr. Al Green of Texas, and Mr. 
             Perlmutter):
       H. Res. 442. A resolution of inquiry directing the 
     Secretary of the Treasury to provide certain documents in the 
     Secretary's possession to the House of Representatives 
     relating to President Trump's financial connections to 
     Russia, certain illegal financial schemes, and related 
     information; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois):
       H. Res. 443. A resolution recognizing the importance and 
     effectiveness of trauma-informed care; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H. Res. 444. A resolution encouraging the courts of the 
     United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to allow 
     Charles William Gard and Constance Rhoda Keely Yates to 
     pursue innovative medical care for their son; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.

[[Page H5832]]

  

           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. 
             Smith of New Jersey):
       H. Res. 445. A resolution honoring the life and legacy of 
     Liu Xiaobo for his steadfast commitment to the protection of 
     human rights, political freedoms, free markets, democratic 
     elections, government accountability, and peaceful change in 
     the People's Republic of China; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.

                          ____________________



