

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2629-S2630]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            TRIBUTE TO MADISON ENGLUND AND JENNIFER TROUTMAN

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, every week I have been coming down to 
the

[[Page S2630]]

floor for months now to recognize someone in my State who has made a 
difference, someone who has devoted time and energy to making Alaska a 
better place to live for the community and for others. We call these 
individuals our Alaskan of the week. It covers Alaskans from all over 
the State.
  As I have said repeatedly in every one of my ``Alaskan of the Week'' 
speeches, I believe Alaska is the most beautiful State in the country--
I would argue, in the world. I urge everybody in the room--the pages, 
the Presiding Officer, and the folks watching on TV--to come see for 
yourself. It will be a trip of a lifetime, I guarantee it. But it is 
the people who truly make Alaska unique, people who are helping each 
other, people who face tough odds and conquer them, strong-willed, 
warm-hearted, tenacious people who have carved generous lives and 
sometimes in very extreme conditions.
  Today, our Alaskan of the week is going to be a twofer. We are going 
to do two today. So I would like to recognize two Alaskans, Madison 
Englund of Fairbanks and Jennifer Troutman of Anchorage, as our 
Alaskans of the week. These are two special athletes who have made all 
of us in Alaska very proud.
  Last month, Madison and Jennifer returned to Alaska with a slew of 
medals from the 2017 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Austria. 
First, these young women did everything in their power, including 
training their hearts out, to qualify for these world Olympic games, 
and when they got there, they excelled. Madison won a Gold Medal in the 
advanced super-G snowboard race and added a Silver Medal in the 
advanced giant slalom. Jennifer claimed a Silver Medal in Monday's 
advanced super-G ski race, as well.
  Jennifer has been an athlete with Special Olympics for 11 years. 
During her freshman year of high school, she participated in bowling, 
track and field, and floor hockey through the Partners Club. During her 
junior year, she found a passion for skiing and has been excelling on 
the slopes ever since, as you can see from these incredible medals from 
the Special Olympics. She also works at Petco during her free time.
  Madison has been part of Special Olympics for 7 years. Aside from 
sports, she enjoys other hobbies, to include playing the cello, 
camping, fishing, and caring for animals. She is proud of her dogs, and 
she has three of them. She also loves to make jewelry. She said it is 
her favorite hobby. In addition to all this, she has also won the Good 
Citizens Award from the Daughters of the American Revolution.
  Since its founding nearly 50 years ago and subsequent growth to all 
corners of the globe, the Special Olympics has brought hope and joy and 
self-esteem to countless children and adults with intellectual 
disabilities and, of course, to their families and friends and their 
supporters like me. Special Olympics has shown what can happen when a 
group of people get together and sweat it out and work hard in the name 
of fair competition, camaraderie, and perseverance. These Special 
Olympians--all Special Olympians, really--make us in Alaska proud.
  I want to thank Jim Balamaci, who has been the Special Olympics 
Alaska head for many years, and his whole team for giving so many 
Alaskans the opportunity to get out to the field or the slopes and 
experience the fulfillment of sports for all.
  In Alaska, we love our Special Olympics athletes. They are an 
inspiration to all of us, whether it is when they are competing or even 
participating in the Polar Plunge in the icy waters of Alaska every 
winter to raise money for Special Olympics.
  Congratulations again to Jennifer and Madison on your hard work and 
incredible achievements and representing Alaska so well. 
Congratulations. You have earned it, being our Alaskans of the week.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Alaska.

                          ____________________



