

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4816-H4818]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Roskam, Mr. 
             Walberg, and Mr. Wilson of South Carolina):
       H.R. 2823. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     ensure that retirement investors receive advice in their best 
     interests, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself, Mr. Burgess, Mr. 
             Tiberi, Mr. Reed, Mr. Meehan, Mrs. Noem, and Mrs. 
             Walorski):
       H.R. 2824. A bill to amend title V of the Social Security 
     Act to extend the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home 
     Visiting Program; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself and Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana):
       H.R. 2825. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to make certain improvements in the laws administered by 
     the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. LABRADOR (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, and Mr. 
             Smith of Texas):
       H.R. 2826. A bill to provide for an annual adjustment of 
     the number of admissible refugees, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mr. Walz, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Peters, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, 
             Mr. Takano, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Evans, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Rush, Ms. Meng, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Mr. Welch, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Kildee, 
             Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Engel, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. 
             Moore, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Kind, 
             Ms. Gabbard, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 2827. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend and expand the membership of the Advisory Committee on 
     Minority Veterans to include veterans who are lesbian, gay, 
     bisexual, or transgender; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE:
       H.R. 2828. A bill to extend the deadline for commencement 
     of construction of a hydroelectric project; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. Nadler, and Mr. Costa):
       H.R. 2829. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     strengthen enforcement of spousal court-ordered property 
     distributions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.

[[Page H4817]]

  

           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, and 
             Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 2830. A bill to authorize methane leak detection and 
     mitigation research activities by the Department of Energy; 
     to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and Mr. 
             Donovan):
       H.R. 2831. A bill to improve the port and maritime security 
     functions of the Department of Homeland Security, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. JORDAN (for himself, Mr. Brat, Mr. Westerman, 
             and Mr. Meadows):
       H.R. 2832. A bill to help individuals receiving assistance 
     under means-tested welfare programs obtain self-sufficiency, 
     to provide information on total spending on means-tested 
     welfare programs, to provide an overall spending limit on 
     means-tested welfare programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, Energy and Commerce, Financial 
     Services, and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself and Ms. Tenney):
       H.R. 2833. A bill to require the President to assess the 
     effects of the sale or export of major defense equipment to 
     countries in the Middle East on the qualitative military edge 
     of Israel, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mrs. 
             Noem):
       H.R. 2834. A bill to improve the well-being of, and improve 
     permanency outcomes for, children and families affected by 
     heroin, opioids, and other substance abuse; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 2835. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to waive 
     the guarantee fee for loans of not more than $150,000 
     provided to veterans and spouses of veterans under the Export 
     Working Capital, International Trade, and Export Express 
     programs; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 2836. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a credit against tax for hurricane and 
     tornado mitigation expenditures; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Jones, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Ms. Norton, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 2837. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     grant family of members of the uniformed services temporary 
     annual leave during the deployment of such members, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
       H.R. 2838. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure access to acupuncturist services through the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
       H.R. 2839. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     ensure access to qualified acupuncturist services for 
     military members and military dependents, to amend title 38, 
     United States Code, to ensure access to acupuncturist 
     services through the Department of Veterans Affairs, to amend 
     title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for 
     coverage of qualified acupuncturist services under the 
     Medicare program; to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize the appointment of qualified acupuncturists as 
     officers in the commissioned Regular Corps and the Ready 
     Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Armed Services, Veterans' 
     Affairs, and Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Adams, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Foster, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Pallone, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Moore, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Huffman, Mr. McNerney, 
             Mr. Cooper, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Delaney, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Serrano, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Bass, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. 
             Fudge, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Aguilar, 
             Mr. Welch, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Deutch, 
             Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Ellison, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, 
             Ms. Meng, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Mr. Kind, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Neal, and Mr. 
             Panetta):
       H.R. 2840. A bill to amend the National Voter Registration 
     Act of 1993 to require each State to ensure that each 
     individual who provides identifying information to the State 
     motor vehicle authority is automatically registered to vote 
     in elections for Federal office held in the State unless the 
     individual does not meet the eligibility requirements for 
     registering to vote in such elections or declines to be 
     registered to vote in such elections, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mr. Deutch, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Keating, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Conyers, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Evans, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, and Ms. Judy Chu of California):
       H.R. 2841. A bill to prevent a person who has been 
     convicted of a misdemeanor hate crime, or received an 
     enhanced sentence for a misdemeanor because of hate or bias 
     in its commission, from obtaining a firearm; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself and Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 2842. A bill to provide for the conduct of 
     demonstration projects to test the effectiveness of 
     subsidized employment for TANF recipients; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself and Mr. Kennedy):
       H.R. 2843. A bill to amend titles XI and XIX of the Social 
     Security Act to establish a comprehensive and nationwide 
     system to evaluate the quality of care provided to 
     beneficiaries of Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance 
     Program and to provide incentives for voluntary quality 
     improvement; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Buck, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Coffman, and Mr. 
             Polis):
       H.R. 2844. A bill to authorize 2 additional district 
     judgeships for the district of Colorado; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Serrano, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, 
             Mr. Takano, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Norcross, 
             Ms. Blunt Rochester, Ms. Adams, Mr. Polis, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Raskin, and Mr. Swalwell of 
             California):
       H.R. 2845. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     make grants to support early college high schools and dual or 
     concurrent enrollment programs; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD (for himself and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 2846. A bill to require the collection of voluntary 
     feedback on services provided by agencies, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself, Mr. Reed, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 2847. A bill to make improvements to the John H. 
     Chafee Foster Care Independence Program and related 
     provisions; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself and Mr. Swalwell of 
             California):
       H.R. 2848. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to allow qualified entrepreneurs to temporarily defer Federal 
     student loan payments after starting a new business; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Richmond, 
             Mr. Abraham, and Mr. Higgins of Louisiana):
       H.R. 2849. A bill to provide emergency tax relief for 
     persons affected by severe storms and flooding occurring in 
     Louisiana; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 2850. A bill to establish the Military Resale Patron 
     Benefits Advisory Commission, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.

[[Page H4818]]

  

           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Goodlatte, and Mr. Gowdy):
       H.R. 2851. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     clarify how controlled substance analogues are to be 
     regulated, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 2852. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require certain tax exempt organizations to certify 
     that foreign funds will not be used to make any contribution 
     or expenditure in connection with any election in the United 
     States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. Reed, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. 
             Walorski, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Gibbs, 
             Mr. Rokita, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Mr. 
             Arrington, Mr. Blum, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Stivers, Mr. Thornberry, and Mr. Collins of New 
             York):
       H.R. 2853. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make qualified biogas property and qualified manure 
     resource recovery property eligible for the energy credit and 
     to permit new clean renewable energy bonds to finance 
     qualified biogas property, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for himself, Mr. Veasey, 
             Mr. Smith of Washington, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Crist, Mr. Cummings, Ms. 
             DeGette, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Himes, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Titus, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Welch, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Soto, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. O'Rourke, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Clyburn, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Tonko, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Keating, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Adams, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Grijalva, and Mr. 
             Pallone):
       H.R. 2854. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to permit an individual who is subject to a requirement 
     to present identification as a condition of voting in an 
     election for Federal office to meet such requirement by 
     presenting a sworn written statement attesting to the 
     individual's identification, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Adams, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Norton, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, and Mr. Cardenas):
       H.R. 2855. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to enhance Social Security benefits and maintain the 
     commitment and the long-term solvency of the Social Security 
     program; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Education and the Workforce, 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and Energy and Commerce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McHENRY (for himself, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Sherman, 
             Mr. Roskam, and Mr. Schneider):
       H.R. 2856. A bill to provide for nonpreemption of measures 
     by State and local governments to divest from entities that 
     engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
     divestment, or sanctions activity targeting Israel, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself and Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California):
       H.R. 2857. A bill to support foster care maintenance 
     payments for children with parents in a licensed residential 
     family-based treatment facility for substance abuse; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Mr. Coffman, and Mr. Carbajal):
       H.R. 2858. A bill to establish a task force to review 
     policies and measures to promote, and to develop best 
     practices for, reduction of short-lived climate pollutants, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Messer, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Sablan, and Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois):
       H.R. 2859. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to establish demonstration projects for competency-based 
     education; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. DelBene, 
             and Mr. Cole):
       H.R. 2860. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to permit American Indian tribal councils to enter into 
     agreements with the Commissioner of Social Security to obtain 
     social security coverage for services performed by tribal 
     council members; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 2861. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide incentives for States to accept professional 
     credentials related to military training and skills that are 
     obtained by members of the Armed Forces while serving in the 
     Armed Forces; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself, Mr. Schrader, Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Calvert, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Walden, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Amodei, Mr. 
             Costa, Mr. Labrador, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Polis, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. 
             Stivers):
       H.R. 2862. A bill to provide for wildfire suppression 
     operations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Budget, and in addition to the Committees on Agriculture, and 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SIMPSON:
       H.R. 2863. A bill to provide for consistent and reliable 
     authority and funding to meet conservation and deferred 
     maintenance needs affecting lands under the administrative 
     jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior and the 
     Department of Agriculture, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Budget, and Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Mr. Hollingsworth):
       H.R. 2864. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to allow certain issuers to be exempt from 
     registration requirements, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SIRES:
       H.R. 2865. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a credit for employer-provided job training, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself and Ms. Sewell of Alabama):
       H.R. 2866. A bill to review and improve licensing standards 
     for placement in a relative foster family home; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Soto, Mr. Gallego, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Butterfield, and Mr. Norcross):
       H.R. 2867. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to establish a pilot program to facilitate 
     education and training programs in the field of advanced 
     manufacturing; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.R. 2868. A bill to protect National Flood Insurance 
     Program policyholders from unreasonable premium rates and to 
     require the Program to consider the unique characteristics of 
     urban properties, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.

                          ____________________



