

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4139]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SENATE RESOLUTION 230--DESIGNATING THE WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 16 THROUGH 
           SEPTEMBER 23, 2017, AS ``NATIONAL ESTUARIES WEEK''

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Reed, Ms. 
Hirono, Mr. Markey, Mr. Carper, Ms. Warren, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Blumenthal, 
Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
Coons, Mr. Booker, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. 
Collins, Mr. King, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Warner, Mr. Cochran, 
Ms. Harris, Mr. Menendez, and Mr. Portman) submitted the following 
resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary:

                              S. Res. 230

       Whereas the estuary regions of the United States constitute 
     a significant share of the economy of the United States, with 
     as much as 43 percent of the gross domestic product of the 
     United States generated in shore adjacent counties;
       Whereas the population of shore adjacent counties in the 
     United States increased by 39 percent from 1970 to 2010 and 
     is projected to continue to increase;
       Whereas not fewer than 2,100,000 jobs in the United States 
     were supported by marine tourism and recreation in 2013;
       Whereas the commercial and recreational fishing industries 
     support over 1,600,000 jobs in the United States;
       Whereas, in 2015--
       (1) commercial fish landings in the United States were 
     valued at nearly $5,300,000,000; and
       (2) recreational anglers took nearly 61,000,000 saltwater 
     fishing trips and spent $28,700,000,000 on fishing trips and 
     durable equipment;
       Whereas estuaries provide vital habitats for countless 
     species of fish and wildlife, including more than 68 percent 
     of the commercial fish catch in the United States by value 
     and 80 percent of the recreational fish catch in the United 
     States by weight, as well as many species that are listed as 
     threatened or endangered species;
       Whereas estuaries provide critical ecosystem services that 
     protect human health and public safety, including water 
     filtration, flood control, shoreline stabilization, erosion 
     prevention, and the protection of coastal communities during 
     hurricanes and storms;
       Whereas the United States had already lost more than 50 
     percent of the wetlands that existed in the 13 Colonies by 
     the 1980s;
       Whereas some bays in the United States that were once 
     filled with fish and oysters have become dead zones filled 
     with excess nutrients, chemical wastes, harmful algae, and 
     marine debris;
       Whereas changes in sea level can affect estuarine water 
     quality and estuarine habitats;
       Whereas the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
     1451 et seq.) provides that the policy of the United States 
     is to preserve, protect, develop, and, if possible, restore 
     or enhance the resources of the coastal zone of the United 
     States, including estuaries, for current and future 
     generations;
       Whereas 27 coastal and Great Lakes States and territories 
     of the United States operate or contain a National Estuary 
     Program or a National Estuarine Research Reserve;
       Whereas scientific study leads to a better understanding of 
     the benefits of estuaries to human and ecological 
     communities;
       Whereas the Federal Government, State, local, and tribal 
     governments, national and community organizations, and 
     individuals work together to effectively manage the estuaries 
     of the United States;
       Whereas estuary restoration efforts restore natural 
     infrastructure in local communities in a cost-effective 
     manner, helping to create jobs and reestablish the natural 
     functions of estuaries that yield countless benefits; and
       Whereas the week of September 16 through September 23, 
     2017, is recognized as ``National Estuaries Week'' to 
     increase awareness among all people of the United States, 
     including Federal Government and State, local, and tribal 
     government officials, about the importance of healthy 
     estuaries and the need to protect and restore estuaries: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates the week of September 16 through September 
     23, 2017, as ``National Estuaries Week'';
       (2) supports the goals and ideals of National Estuaries 
     Week;
       (3) acknowledges the importance of estuaries to sustaining 
     employment in the United States and the economic well-being 
     and prosperity of the United States;
       (4) recognizes that persistent threats undermine the health 
     of the estuaries of the United States;
       (5) applauds the work of national and community 
     organizations and public partners that promote public 
     awareness, understanding, protection, and restoration of 
     estuaries;
       (6) reaffirms the support of the Senate for estuaries, 
     including the scientific study, preservation, protection, and 
     restoration of estuaries; and
       (7) expresses the intent of the Senate to continue working 
     to understand, protect, and restore the estuaries of the 
     United States.

                          ____________________



