

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3328-S3329]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm 
that the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.


                                 S. 319

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 319, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to establish within the Department of Veterans Affairs 
a center of excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, 
treatment, and rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure 
to burn pits.


                                 S. 341

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 341, a bill to provide 
for congressional oversight of actions to waive, suspend, reduce, 
provide relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions 
with respect to the Russian Federation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 379, a bill to 
amend title II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month 
waiting period for disability insurance benefits under such title for 
individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 447

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 447, a bill to require 
reporting on acts of certain foreign countries on Holocaust era assets 
and related issues.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 486, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the non-application of 
Medicare competitive acquisition rates to complex rehabilitative 
wheelchairs and accessories.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to 
Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of international 
terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 749

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 749, a bill to amend the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 to require the disclosure of the annual 
percentage rates applicable to Federal student loans.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 751, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use of 
amounts in a National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address 
the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 806

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 806, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act to ensure College for All.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin

[[Page S3329]]

(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 829, a bill to reauthorize 
the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and 
Safety Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency 
Response grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize the 
Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 928

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 928, a bill 
to prohibit, as an unfair or deceptive act or practice, commercial 
sexual orientation conversion therapy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1018

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1018, a bill to provide 
humanitarian assistance for the Venezuelan people, to defend democratic 
governance and combat widespread public corruption in Venezuela, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Mr. Cochran, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.
  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, supra.


                                S. 1055

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1055, a bill to 
restrict the exportation of certain defense articles to the Philippine 
National Police, to work with the Philippines to support civil society 
and a public health approach to substance abuse, to report on Chinese 
and other sources of narcotics to the Republic of the Philippines, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1068

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1068, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide tax incentives for 
increased investment in clean energy.


                                S. 1099

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1099, a bill to provide for 
the identification and prevention of improper payments and the 
identification of strategic sourcing opportunities by reviewing and 
analyzing the use of Federal agency charge cards.


                                S. 1129

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1129, a bill to 
authorize appropriations for the Coast Guard, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1146

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1146, a bill to enhance 
the ability of the Office of the National Ombudsman to assist small 
businesses in meeting regulatory requirements and develop outreach 
initiatives to promote awareness of the services the Office of the 
National Ombudsman provides, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1154

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1154, a bill to amend title 
37, United States Code, to provide for the housing treatment of members 
of the Armed Forces and their spouses and dependents undergoing a 
permanent change of station in the United States, and for other 
purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 42

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 42, a joint 
resolution relating to the disapproval of the proposed export to the 
Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia of certain defense articles.


                              S.J. RES. 44

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 44, a joint 
resolution condemning the deadly attack on May 26, 2017, in Portland, 
Oregon, expressing deepest condolences to the families and friends of 
the victims, and supporting efforts to overcome hatred, bigotry, and 
violence.


                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 136, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 102nd anniversary of 
the Armenian Genocide.


                              S. RES. 174

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 174, a resolution recognizing the 100th 
anniversary of Lions Clubs International and celebrating the Lions 
Clubs International for a long history of humanitarian service.

                          ____________________



