

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2939-H2941]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Mr. Kind, and Mr. 
             Crist):
       H.R. 2183. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a reduced excise tax rate for portable, 
     electronically-aerated bait containers; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Perlmutter, 
             Mr. Thornberry, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Ratcliffe, and Mr. 
             Richmond):
       H.R. 2184. A bill to support meeting our Nation's growing 
     cybersecurity workforce needs by expanding the cybersecurity 
     education pipeline; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. PITTENGER (for himself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 2185. A bill to require the President to transmit to 
     Congress determinations and certifications of whether foreign 
     financial institutions listed in Attachment 3 or Attachment 4 
     to Annex II of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action have 
     facilitated transactions or provided services for foreign 
     terrorist organizations, sanctioned foreign persons, or 
     Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, 
     agents, or affiliates, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for himself, Mr. Brady of 
             Texas, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Gohmert, and Mr. 
             Garrett):
       H.R. 2186. A bill to reserve any amounts forfeited to the 
     United States Government as a result of the criminal 
     prosecution of Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera (commonly 
     known as ``El Chapo``), or of other felony convictions 
     involving the transportation of controlled substances into 
     the United States, for security measures along the Southern 
     border, including the completion of a border wall; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. DesJarlais, 
             Mrs. Blackburn, and Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee):
       H.R. 2187. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify the treatment of certain retirement plan 
     contributions picked up by governmental employers; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Sessions, Ms. 
             McSally, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. King of New 
             York, Mr. Katko, Ms. Sinema, Mrs. Demings, Mr. 
             Ratcliffe, Mr. Williams, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Brady of 
             Texas, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Olson, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. 
             Flores, and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 2188. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish the major metropolitan area 
     counterterrorism training and exercise grant program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 2189. A bill to amend section 337 of the Tariff Act of 
     1930 with respect to requirements for domestic industries, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD:
       H.R. 2190. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to direct the Under Secretary for Management of the 
     Department of Homeland Security to make certain improvements 
     in managing the Department's real property portfolio, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. DUNN (for himself, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. 
             Buchanan, and Mr. Neal):
       H.R. 2191. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to revise certain regulations relating to aircraft boarding, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Flores, Mrs. 
             Wagner, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Walker, Mr. Gallagher, 
             Mr. Stivers, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Upton, Ms. Stefanik, 
             Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Brat, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Bridenstine, Ms. 
             Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Knight, Mr. Bishop of 
             Michigan, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Harris, Mr. 
             Fortenberry, Mr. Westerman, Mrs. Love, Mr. Lewis of 
             Minnesota, Ms. Cheney, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Stewart, Mr. 
             Smith of Missouri, Mr. Walden, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Budd, 
             Mr. Babin, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. 
             Harper, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             King of New York, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Hollingsworth, 
             Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Davidson, Mr. 
             Latta, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Faso, Mr. 
             Garrett, and Mr. Gowdy):
       H.R. 2192. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     eliminate the non-application of certain State waiver 
     provisions to Members of Congress and congressional staff; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

[[Page H2940]]

  

           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Mr. Womack, Mr. Chaffetz, 
             Mr. Stivers, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Speier, 
             Ms. DelBene, Mr. Welch, and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 2193. A bill to grant States authority to enforce 
     State and local sales and use tax laws on remote 
     transactions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. HUNTER:
       H.R. 2194. A bill to protect the public health by providing 
     the Food and Drug Administration with certain authority to 
     regulate e-liquids and personal electronic vaporizers, to 
     reduce the morbidity and mortality resulting from cigarette 
     smoking through the responsible regulation of e-liquids and 
     personal electronic vaporizers as a tobacco harm reduction 
     strategy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. BLUM (for himself, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Cummings, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Coffman, and Ms. Speier):
       H.R. 2195. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for access of the Special Counsel to certain 
     information; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. RUSSELL (for himself, Mr. Cummings, and Mr. 
             Lynch):
       H.R. 2196. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     allow whistleblowers to disclose information to certain 
     recipients; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Matsui, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Peters, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Raskin, Miss Rice of New York, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Rush, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Welch, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 2197. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish an energy efficiency materials pilot program; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 2198. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to ensure that calls to medical facilities of the 
     Department can be quickly redirected to the Veterans Crisis 
     Line; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 2199. A bill to improve Federal land management, 
     resource conservation, environmental protection, and use of 
     Federal real property, by requiring the Secretary of the 
     Interior to develop a multipurpose cadastre of Federal real 
     property and identifying inaccurate, duplicate, and out-of-
     date Federal land inventories, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Ms. Bass, Mr. 
             Royce of California, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mrs. Brooks of 
             Indiana, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Poe of Texas, and Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 2200. A bill to reauthorize the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, Oversight and Government Reform, 
     Ways and Means, Transportation and Infrastructure, Energy and 
     Commerce, Armed Services, and Education and the Workforce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. EMMER:
       H.R. 2201. A bill to amend the Securities Act of 1933 to 
     exempt certain micro-offerings from the registration 
     requirements of such Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 2202. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize appointment of Doctors of Chiropractic to regular 
     and reserve corps of the Public Health Service Commissioned 
     Corps, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Ms. HANABUSA (for herself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Frankel 
             of Florida, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Blumenauer, and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 2203. A bill to authorize Federal agencies to 
     establish prize competitions for innovation or adaptation 
     management development relating to coral reef ecosystems and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself and Mr. Barr):
       H.R. 2204. A bill to require the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to conduct a study regarding the privacy of 
     information collected under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act 
     of 1975, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas:
       H.R. 2205. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude from gross income interest received on 
     certain loans secured by agricultural real property; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Pocan, 
             Ms. Moore, Ms. Lee, Ms. Norton, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Evans, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Perlmutter, and 
             Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 2206. A bill to authorize the President to reestablish 
     the Civilian Conservation Corps as a means of providing 
     gainful employment to unemployed and underemployed citizens 
     of the United States through the performance of useful public 
     work, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Walz, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Langevin, 
             Mr. Schneider, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, and Mr. 
             Gutierrez):
       H.R. 2207. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to support community college and industry 
     partnerships, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Rush, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, and Mr. 
             Gutierrez):
       H.R. 2208. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to provide funding, on a competitive basis, 
     for summer and year-round employment opportunities for youth 
     ages 14 through 24; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, and Mr. Gutierrez):
       H.R. 2209. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the work opportunity credit for certain youth 
     employees, and to extend empowerment zones; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Thompson 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Meehan, and Mr. Dent):
       H.R. 2210. A bill to designate the community living center 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Butler Township, 
     Butler County, Pennsylvania, as the ``Sergeant Joseph George 
     Kusick VA Community Living Center``; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, and Mr. 
             LoBiondo):
       H.R. 2211. A bill to provide for the award of medals or 
     other commendations to handlers of military working dogs and 
     military working dogs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 2212. A bill to promote competition in the market for 
     drugs and biological products by facilitating the timely 
     entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar versions of those 
     drugs and biological products; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Hurd, Mr. 
             Carter of Texas, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, 
             and Mr. Vela):
       H.R. 2213. A bill to amend the Anti-Border Corruption Act 
     of 2010 to authorize certain polygraph waiver authority, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN:
       H.R. 2214. A bill to prohibit the payment of salary to 
     Members of Congress in the event of a Government shutdown, to 
     direct the Congressional Budget Office to submit daily 
     reports during the period in which a Government shutdown is 
     in effect on the effects of the shutdown on the economy and 
     the costs of the shutdown to taxpayers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PERLMUTTER (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Coffman, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Courtney, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Delaney, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Hunter, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Norton, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Schrader, 
             Mr. Sherman, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. Titus, 
             and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 2215. A bill to create protections for depository 
     institutions that provide financial services to cannabis-
     related legitimate businesses, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN:
       H.R. 2216. A bill to provide that certain project works on 
     the St. Croix River, Maine,

[[Page H2941]]

     are not required to be licensed by the Federal Energy 
     Regulatory Commission; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. POLIS:
       H.R. 2217. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase for 2 years the residential energy credit 
     and the investment tax credit with respect to solar property 
     with a nameplate capacity of less than 20 kilowatts; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee:
       H.R. 2218. A bill to expand the Big Laurel Branch 
     Wilderness and Sampson Mountain Wilderness in the Cherokee 
     National Forest in the State of Tennessee, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Keating, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, and Mrs. Love):
       H.R. 2219. A bill to increase the role of the financial 
     industry in combating human trafficking; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. SINEMA:
       H.R. 2220. A bill to appropriate such funds as may be 
     necessary to ensure that members of the Armed Forces, 
     including reserve components thereof, and supporting civilian 
     and contractor personnel continue to receive pay and 
     allowances for active service performed when a Government 
     shutdown occurs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMUCKER:
       H.R. 2221. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for automatic continuing resolutions; to the 
     Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mrs. Beatty):
       H.R. 2222. A bill to amend section 428 of the McKinney-
     Vento Homeless Assistance Act to provide incentives to 
     grantees under the Continuum of Care program to re-house all 
     former members of the Armed Forces, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Evans, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Pocan, and 
             Mr. Walz):
       H.J. Res. 100. A joint resolution to authorize the use of 
     United States Armed Forces against al Qaeda, the Islamic 
     State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), and the Afghan Taliban; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Rules, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts:
       H. Res. 286. A resolution directing certain officials of 
     the executive branch to provide information to the House of 
     Representatives that will enable the House to meet its 
     constitutional responsibility to conduct oversight of the 
     executive branch by investigating potential conflicts of 
     interests of President Donald J. Trump; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Rules, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa:
       H. Res. 287. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that Congress should pass no law that 
     would exempt from its obligations or provide any other 
     special consideration to--- elected or appointed Federal 
     officials or any other Federal employee; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committees on House Administration, and the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Ms. Velazquez, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Blum, Mr. Espaillat, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Knight, Mr. 
             Lawson of Florida, Mr. Evans, Mr. Bacon, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Schneider, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. 
             Brat, Mr. Comer, Ms. Adams, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico, and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H. Res. 288. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of April 30, 2017, through May 6, 
     2017, as ``National Small Business Week`` to celebrate the 
     contributions of small businesses and entrepreneurs in every 
     community in the United States; to the Committee on Small 
     Business.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Ms. 
             Adams, and Mrs. Beatty):
       H. Res. 290. A resolution expressing support for 
     celebrating the fourth week in April as Every Kid Healthy 
     Week; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas (for himself, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Mr. Clay, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. 
             Beyer, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Adams, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. 
             Maxine Waters of California, Ms. Moore, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Lee, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Kelly 
             of Illinois, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr. Richmond, Mr. Hastings, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Johnson 
             of Georgia, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mrs. Lawrence, 
             and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H. Res. 291. A resolution promoting and supporting the 
     goals and ideals of the Fair Housing Act and recognizing 
     April 2017 as Fair Housing Month, which includes bringing 
     attention to the discrimination faced by every-day Americans 
     in the United States in housing and housing-related 
     transactions on the basis of race, color, national origin, 
     sex, familial status, disability, and religion; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H. Res. 292. A resolution designating April 30, 2017, as El 
     Dia de Los Ninos-Celebrating Young Americans; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



