

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3920-S3922]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit the 
conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration of war by 
Congress.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend 
the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the 
mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and to require the provision of advance electronic information on 
shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 617

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 617, a bill 
to amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate certain segments 
of the Farmington River and Salmon Brook in the State of Connecticut as 
components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 756

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr.

[[Page S3921]]

Portman), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey) were added as cosponsors of S. 756, a bill to reauthorize and 
amend the Marine Debris Act to promote international action to reduce 
marine debris, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 839

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 839, a bill to allow for 
judicial review of any final rule addressing national emission 
standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance 
with such rule.


                                 S. 845

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 845, a bill to protect sensitive community 
locations from harmful immigration enforcement action, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the 
extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the 
increased payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 910, a bill to prohibit discrimination 
against individuals with disabilities who need long-term services and 
supports, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 985

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 985, a bill to prohibit the 
Secretary of the Interior from revising the approved oil and gas 
leasing program for fiscal years 2017 through 2022.


                                S. 1015

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1015, a bill to require the 
Federal Communications Commission to study the feasibility of 
designating a simple, easy-to-remember dialing code to be used for a 
national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system.


                                S. 1122

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1122, a bill to amend the 
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to clarify when the time 
period for the issuance of citations under such Act begins and to 
require a rule to clarify that an employer's duty to make and maintain 
accurate records of work-related injuries and illnesses is an ongoing 
obligation.


                                S. 1132

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1132, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the removal of 
the rental cap for durable medical equipment under the Medicare program 
with respect to speech generating devices.


                                S. 1151

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1151, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a nonrefundable credit for 
working family caregivers.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts), the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), the Senator 
from Nevada (Mr. Heller), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker), the 
Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. 
Klobuchar), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator 
from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added as cosponsors of S. 1182, a 
bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint commemorative 
coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1274

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1274, a bill to direct the 
President to establish an interagency mechanism to coordinate United 
States development programs and private sector investment activities, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1276

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1276, a bill to 
require the Attorney General to make a determination as to whether 
cannabidiol should be a controlled substance and listed in a schedule 
under the Controlled Substances Act and to expand research on the 
potential medical benefits of cannabidiol and other marihuana 
components.


                                S. 1292

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1292, a bill to amend the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to monitor and combat anti-
Semitism globally, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1348

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1348, a bill to amend title 
XI of the Social Security Act to require drug manufacturers to publicly 
justify unnecessary price increases.


                                S. 1403

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1403, a bill to amend the Public Lands Corps 
Act of 1993 to establish the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps to 
place youth and veterans in national service positions to conserve, 
restore, and enhance the great outdoors of the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1414

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1414, a bill to state the 
policy of the United States on the minimum number of available battle 
force ships.


                                S. 1462

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. 
Whitehouse), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and the Senator 
from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added as cosponsors of S. 1462, a 
bill to amend the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to improve 
cost sharing subsidies.


                                S. 1474

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) and the 
Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1474, a bill to prohibit the use of fiscal year 2018 funds for the 
closure, consolidation, or elimination of certain offices of the 
Environmental Protection Agency.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 21

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 21, a concurrent 
resolution urging the Government of the People's Republic of China to 
unconditionally release Liu Xiaobo, together with his wife Liu Xia, to 
allow them to freely meet with friends, family, and counsel and seek 
medical treatment wherever they desire.


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 75, a resolution 
recognizing the 100th anniversary of the Academy of Nutrition and 
Dietetics, the largest organization of food and nutrition professionals 
in the world.

[[Page S3922]]

  



                              S. RES. 154

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, her name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 154, a resolution promoting awareness of motorcycle profiling and 
encouraging collaboration and communication with the motorcycle 
community and law enforcement officials to prevent instances of 
profiling.


                              S. RES. 214

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 214, a 
resolution designating June 19, 2017, as ``Juneteenth Independence 
Day'' in recognition of June 19, 1865, the date on which slavery 
legally came to an end in the United States.

                          ____________________



