

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3486]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

              TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT GENERAL KAREN E. DYSON

 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I wish to honor an exceptional 
officer in the U.S. Army. LTG Karen E. Dyson will retire in July after 
more than 37 years of distinguished service to the Army and our great 
Nation. General Dyson's long and distinguished career admirably 
culminates as military deputy to the Assistant Secretary of the Army, 
Financial Management and Comptroller. This is the highest military 
position within that office.
  For nearly four decades, General Dyson has personified the Army 
values of duty, integrity, and selfless service to our Nation's 
defense. She comes from a legacy of selfless service, as her father 
served as a special forces officer in Germany. Lieutenant General Dyson 
began her own legacy upon graduation and commissioning as a second 
lieutenant into the regular Army, Finance Branch, from the ROTC program 
at Southwest Missouri State University. Her extraordinary career is a 
testament to her hard work and dedication; she is an exemplary role 
model and mentor who made Army history as the first female finance 
officer to obtain the rank of lieutenant general.
  Lieutenant General Dyson has commanded soldiers at all levels through 
brigade, leading soldiers in peacetime, stability operations, and war. 
During her command of the European-based 266th Finance Command, she 
deployed with her troops in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom in Iraq. 
Her command funded each and every Army mission within the contingency 
operation, the infrastructure of all military operating bases, and 
critical equipment that ensured warfighters were ready to fight. She 
also commanded the 208th Finance Battalion during Operation Joint Guard 
and Operation Joint Forge in Bosnia; and the 66th Finance Detachment in 
the 101st Airborne Division during Operations Desert Shield/Desert 
Storm in Saudi Arabia.
  Lieutenant General Dyson was an integral part of the of the White 
House team during her time serving as the chief of staff and 
comptroller, White House Military Office. She is also a familiar and 
respected presence in the Pentagon and on Capitol Hill. During her time 
as the military deputy for budget and the director of the Army budget 
under the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army, Financial 
Management and Comptroller, she dedicated herself to engaging Congress 
on important financial issues for the Army, answering questions that 
ensured transparency and understanding of the Army's funding 
requirements. She served in numerous positions within the Pentagon to 
include the chief of the Army Coalition Provisional Authority Support 
Team, the director of Business Operations Office of Business 
Transformation, the director of operations and support Army Budget 
Office and the executive officer to the Assistant Secretary of the 
Army, Financial Management and Comptroller, and to the Under Secretary 
of the Army. She influenced the way the Army viewed auditability and 
was the driving force behind numerous initiatives to make every dollar 
count, ensuring accountability to Congress and our Nation's taxpayers.
  Together with her husband James Chamberlain, a retired Air Force 
officer, she will undoubtedly continue her service to our Nation in 
some capacity following her retirement. On behalf of the State of West 
Virginia and the U.S. Senate and a grateful nation, I congratulate LTG 
Karen E. Dyson on her retirement from the U.S. Army. I wish Karen and 
Jim the best in their future endeavors and the next chapter of their 
lives.

                          ____________________



