

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6567-H6568]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   IN HONOR OF THE LIFE OF EMIL OGDEN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Flores) is recognized 
for the remainder of the hour as the designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman for Texas sharing 
the story about Megan with this Chamber, and I look forward to 
supporting him in his efforts to try to keep these things from 
happening again in the future.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Emil Ogden of College Station, 
Texas, who passed away on July 25, 2017.
  Emil Ogden was born on September 15, 1927, in Blackwell, Oklahoma. He 
was raised by his loving mother, Mary Ogden, in Bowling Green, 
Missouri. Growing up during the worst of the Great Depression, Emil 
experienced poverty firsthand and lived in a one-room house. To provide 
for her son, Emil's mother worked as a maid at his grandfather's hotel 
for $2 a week. To help the family, Emil worked any odd job he could 
find.
  During this time, an act of kindness from a member of the local 
Rotary Club would change his life. Emil was enamored with baseball and 
would often visit the local hardware store owned by Rotary Club member 
Ed Dunlap. Ed noticed that Emil loved baseball but could not afford the 
equipment. He sent a bat, a glove, and a ball to Emil. The care that Ed 
and the Rotary members showed to Emil put his life on a better course.
  Emil valued their support, once stating: ``I could have been very 
rebellious as a child. Things like poverty can make you grow up with 
some resentment. But all of a sudden, I had a whole town of surrogate 
fathers, and they cared about me. It motivated me to be a better 
example as a young man. The leaders of the community who we respected 
were all members of the Rotary, and I didn't want to disappoint them 
after they had taken an interest in me.''
  In 1945, Emil joined the U.S. Army Air Corps and was assigned to the 
503rd Army Air Forces Base Unit, better known as the Brass Hat 
Squadron. The Brass Hat Squadron was a group of esteemed Army pilots 
whose job it was to fly high-profile persons around the world to 
significant events.
  Based out of Washington National Airport, the squadron flew senior 
government officials, including senators and congressmen, U.S. and 
foreign dignitaries and, military leaders, among others.
  Personally, Emil flew dignitaries to events such as the Nuremberg war 
trials, the atomic bomb tests on Bikini Atoll, and the national 
independence celebration in the Philippines. Due to his service in the 
military, Emil had visited more than 30 countries before his 20th 
birthday.
  In 1947, Emil married his high school sweetheart and the love of his 
life, Clementine Lindeman.

                              {time}  1415

  Clementine was the center of Emil's life for over 69 years. Her 
support and encouragement always kept Emil grounded. Their love and 
commitment to each other, their Catholic faith, and the values upon 
which they built their lives, endured until his death. Together they 
had six children, whom they both loved dearly. At the time of his 
passing, their legacy included 22 grandchildren, and 12 great-
grandchildren.
  After his service in World War II, Emil went on to play professional 
baseball in the minor leagues, playing for both the Brooklyn Dodgers' 
and the Baltimore Orioles' organizations. His career lasted from 1949 
to 1953. His baseball career took place in west Texas, first for the 
Midland Indians and then for the Odessa Oilers. During his playing 
days, Emil met several baseball legends, including Jackie Robinson.
  Emil's baseball career came to a close when Clementine gave him an 
ultimatum: either stay married or keep playing baseball. Emil was a 
wise man, and he chose to focus on marriage.

[[Page H6568]]

  Emil began college at Texas A&M University as part of the class of 
1953. In the 1980s, he finished a degree in philosophy while he was in 
his sixties. Upon finishing his degree later in life, Emil said: ``Too 
many of us grow older and we sit back and say, `Well, I've lived my 
life. There's nothing else to do. I'll try to live on my past 
experiences and past knowledge and hope that I survive with some 
dignity.' I think that person has already partially died.'' Emil's love 
for learning and his intellectual curiosity would continue through the 
end of his life.
  In 1953, Emil returned to Abilene, Texas, to begin his career in the 
oil industry. While starting his career, he worked odd jobs to help 
make ends meet for his growing family. One of those odd jobs was 
playing the trumpet in local dance bands on the weekends.
  In 1973, his independent oil and gas operations hit it big when the 
properties he was leasing dramatically increased in value, creating the 
nucleus of Emil's business success. The oil and gas business eventually 
brought Emil back to College Station in 1979, where he would be 
instrumental in developing the successful Bryan Woodbine Oil Field in 
the 1980s.
  Passionate about educating youth, Emil helped found the Ogden-
Chaparral Entertainment Company, where he produced an educational 
children's television show called ``ImagineLane'' in the 1990s. The 
first show aired on KAMU-TV in the Brazos Valley and was eventually 
shown on stations all across the United States.
  Even with all of his business accomplishments, Emil will best be 
remembered for his philanthropic efforts in the Brazos Valley. His 
upbringing in poverty and struggles during early life are something 
Emil never forgot, and it made him empathize with those in need.
  He served on the board of directors for the local Boys & Girls Club, 
in multiple positions for the Knights of Columbus, as chairman of the 
Arrow Moon District of the Boy Scouts of America, and he was also a 
member of the Bryan Rotary Club.
  A lifelong conservative, Emil also gave to many conservative causes, 
including donating the seed money to the 40 Days for Life campaign, 
which began at College Station and advocated for pro-life causes around 
the world today.
  He also sponsors three Habitat for Humanity homes, saying that it was 
``my way of giving thanks.''
  Mr. Speaker, Emil Ogden worked tirelessly for the Brazos Valley. He 
is loved in Bryan-College Station and certainly left an enduring 
impression on our community. He will be forever remembered as a great 
philanthropist, humanitarian, businessman, husband, father, 
grandfather, great-grandfather, pro-life champion, and friend.
  My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest and heartfelt condolences to 
the Ogden family. We also lift up the family and friends of Emil Ogden 
in our prayers.
  I have requested that the United States flag be flown over the 
Nation's Capitol today to honor the life and legacy of Emil Ogden.
  As I close today, I urge all Americans to continue praying for our 
country during these difficult times, for our military men and women 
who protect us from external threats, and for our first responders who 
protect us from threats here at home.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



