

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5823-H5829]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           ISSUES OF THE DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King) is recognized for 
60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege and honor to 
address you here from the floor of the House of Representatives in this 
great deliberative body that has been deliberating all day long in the 
markup of the National Defense Authorization Act.
  The work that is done, especially by the members of the Armed 
Services Committee, goes deeply into the destiny and the future of 
America. They have to look at the whole globe and the whole budget, and 
they have to look at the equipment that is out there and the technology 
that is developing, and it is a heavy responsibility to present this 
NDAA authorization bill to the floor.
  Often, there are efforts that are made to turn it into a political 
bill, rather than the bill that can defend America, and ensure that we 
have the best military that the world has ever seen, and the best 
equipment for the best military the world has ever seen, and the best 
standards to uphold the best people, the nobility of the United States 
military.
  So I want to compliment especially the members of the committee and 
the chairman for his work and the work that has been done here on this 
floor. They are going to take a deep breath and tomorrow will bring 
this thing back to the floor for a vote and a potential final passage.
  I came to the floor to address a bit different topic, and I may 
revert back to the NDAA, and I actually intend to do that, Mr. Speaker. 
But I have wanted to come to this floor for some time to discuss the 
circumstances going on here in the United States of America and an 
issue that has been very important to me for a long time; and that is 
the issue of the United States of America getting to the point where we 
finally declare a language, our English language, as the official 
language of the United States.
  I sat down once, and I went through the--when we had the World Book 
Encyclopedia, before the internet, more or less, eroded the 
ubiquitousness--that means everywhere--the World Book Encyclopedia was 
everywhere in the country and many places in the world.
  I looked through--I took a 1979 almanac, and I looked at all the 
flags for all the countries in the world, and I looked up every single 
country to find out, do they have an official language, or don't they? 
And from that 1979 almanac, and some of the countries have changed 
since then, but every single country in the world had an official 
language, at least one of them, except for the United States of 
America.
  As I studied this, and it comes to me, the more I look at history, 
the more I look at the forces that move the world and the people in it, 
often it is the culture; it is the cultural foundation that moves 
policy in America, and in every country in the world.
  The culture lives in the hearts and minds of its people; and what is 
in the hearts and minds of its people is, if you are members of a 
nation state, what binds us together is having a common experience, a 
common cause, common enemies, perhaps, a common sense of history, a 
common sense of struggle, a common sense of economic ties, and also, a 
common language.
  A common language is the most powerful unifying force anywhere in the 
world throughout all of history, even more powerful than religion, and 
religion is a very powerful unifying force, and sometimes it can be a 
dividing force.
  But of those powerful unifying forces we have, it might be race, it 
might be ethnicity, it might be national origin, it can be those 
things. It could be religion, but all of these components go together 
to make your culture, and the binding force that we have proven in this 
country over and over and over again is the common language.
  Some years ago, just one floor down, out that door, I sat down with 
several ambassadors to the United States from Israel, and I remarked to 
them that they had established Hebrew as their official language in 
1954. The country was approved by the motion in the United Nations in 
1948, and 6 years later, the Israelis established Hebrew as their 
official language.
  I asked them: Why did you do that? Hebrew was a dead language. It was 
essentially a language only of prayer for 2,000 years. But they 
resurrected that language and decided we are going to make it the 
common form of communications currency in Israel in order to bind the 
Israelis together. And so they did.
  They deployed the Hebrew language in the streets of Israel. In fact, 
there weren't any streets in Tel Aviv at the time. They created Tel 
Aviv also as a manufactured city to add to the glory of Israel. But as 
the people walked in the streets, they decided we are going to embrace 
this language of Hebrew. So it is today the language of the Israeli 
people, Hebrew.

  Why did you do that? And their answer to me was: We looked at the 
United States. We knew we were going to be assimilating people from 
many countries in the world, maybe even all countries in the world, and 
they would come from all races, all ethnicities, all national origins, 
coming back because--primarily they were attracted back because they 
were of Jewish faith, many of them by Jewish blood and heritage; but 
they came into Israel, and they needed to be bound together as 
Israelis. And the best way to bind them together--these are smart 
people--was a common language.
  And a common language that was unique was helpful, also. It gave them 
the distinction and the pride that they would have of the nationalism 
of being Israelis. And so Hebrew became the official language of the 
fresh new nation state Israel just 6 years after it was formed.
  I was not astonished by that, but I was very impressed by the wisdom 
that they used to apply the necessity of a common language to bind them 
together so that they could be one people.
  I went there, and I traveled, and I looked at what they were doing. 
They had brought in several hundred people from Ethiopia to come into 
the Israeli society, and they get 6 months to study Hebrew and to be 
assimilated into the broader Israeli economy.
  Those who come to Israel that are not literate in their own language, 
they first had to teach them to read and write in the language that was 
native to them, their natural language, and then they taught them 
Hebrew and converted them into being able to read and write and speak 
in Hebrew. But they got 6 months to do that, and then out into the 
world they went. That is a pretty fast assimilation process.
  But I don't know if there is a country since, other than the United 
States, that has done a better job of assimilating people from 
everywhere in the world into one society than has happened in Israel.
  Mr. Speaker, I would say that I never, ever hear anybody talk about 
divisions within Israelis. I don't hear them speaking, well, you are an 
African Israeli or a German Israeli or a Russian Israeli. There are a 
lot of them, but they see themselves as Israelis. They have a common 
language, common culture, and they are pulled together out of a need to 
have a common defense and a common cause.

[[Page H5824]]

  That is the model that they created by looking at the model of the 
United States of America because we had been so successful in 
assimilating people into this country and binding us together by having 
a common language; that common language, a common form of 
communications currency that allows us to communicate with every 
American everywhere, to walk into any city council meeting, any county 
supervisor's meeting, any State legislature, any discussions that go on 
here in the House, in the Senate, any meetings that go on within the 
government buildings in the Federal and the State and the political 
subdivisions thereof. All of our meetings take place in English. 
Anybody that speaks English can walk in there and understand them.
  That is the policy that brought us together as a people. That is the 
policy that was so admired by the Israelis that they emulated it. Yet 
we sit here still the only country in the world, by the measure that I 
described, of the World Book Encyclopedia and the 1979 almanac, at 
least, the only country in the world that doesn't have at least one 
official language.
  We have a common language that is English. We need to make our 
official language English, and, of course, I have introduced 
legislation, Mr. Speaker, to do that. It is H.R. 997; it has been H.R. 
997 since I came to this Congress, and one day we are going to see a 
President sign that bill, and it might very well be this President we 
have today, President Trump. He has spoken in favor of official 
English, and I certainly agree with him on this. But it is more than 
this.
  When President Bill Clinton introduced the executive order, I believe 
it is 13166--and I am operating from a dusty memory here. Perhaps I 
have got it on a note. But let's go with 13166. That executive order 
directed that any government facility that is there needs to 
accommodate any language request that comes from anybody who walks into 
a Federal building or a State building or any government service. It 
just runs up the cost of our government in an unnecessary way.
  The idea, I suppose, is, well, we are going to make it easy for 
people who have trouble understanding English; and so if we do that, 
eventually they will pick up and learn and understand English, and they 
will assimilate into society because, after all, every other 
generation, every other people that has come into America has 
assimilated into our society.

                              {time}  1930

  But when you change the rules and you change the format and you take 
away the incentive, then you can't expect to have the same result.
  And how it was, was that people were brought into this country and 
they were immersed into the American culture and the American 
civilization.
  For example, my grandmother came to the United States from Germany 
and she spoke only German. My father went to school, kindergarten--one 
of seven siblings altogether, number three in line--speaking German. He 
was quite confused on his first day of kindergarten, even though 
``kindergarten'' is a German word. And when he came home from school 
that day, he walked into the house and said ``hello'' to his mother in 
German. My grandmother, his mother, Freda Catrina Johanna Harm King, 
said to her son: Emmett, speaking German in this household is for you 
from now on verboten. I came here to become an American. That means 
speaking English, and you will go to school and learn English, and you 
will bring it home and you will teach it to me.
  So my father had spoken his last words of German in that household, 
and he went to school and learned English, and he brought it home and 
taught it to his mother, and she learned English from her son and her 
sons, but primarily my father. That was an expression of gratitude to 
the country that had embraced her and welcomed her, and she embraced 
this country, the United States of America. And of the six sons that 
she raised and a daughter, one of the sons was physically unable to 
serve, four of the remaining five went back to fight against the 
fatherland. And my father went to the South Pacific for 2\1/2\ years to 
fight the Japanese, and came home weighing 115 pounds on U.S. rations 
with a lot of stories that he never told. That was the way she thanked 
the host country, the United States of America. And there I sat growing 
up in a small town in Iowa being told: You hit the jackpot, Steve. You 
were born into the greatest country on the face of the Earth. You could 
not have been born anyplace better than this. The United States of 
America is the greatest country in the world, and you need to pay back 
this country that so welcomed the people that have come here.
  Well, I want to continue to do that by tying together our society and 
our civilization, knitting us together, and English is the very best 
way to do that. We can eliminate the billions of dollars that we are 
unnecessarily spending by proliferating other languages within our 
government.
  I think it is important that people learn multiple languages. It is 
important, especially in this world that we are in today where we have 
got so much foreign trade and so much foreign travel and so many 
foreign visitors into this country. I do a significant amount of travel 
myself. But to try to promote other languages to be spoken on the 
streets of America or confuse our students by catering to the language 
that is the language of their home rather than the language of the 
streets, then we end up with ethnic enclaves and people that really 
don't embrace the American culture and the American civilization.
  I was quite struck by the book that was written by Winston Churchill 
called ``A History of the English-Speaking Peoples.'' I carefully read 
through that book forward and back. It took me quite a while to get 
through it carefully. I absorbed it and soaked it up. When I finished 
the book, I remember it was about 1:30 in the morning, and I looked up 
at the ceiling, and I thought: Huh. Wherever the English-speaking 
peoples have gone, by reading Churchill's book, freedom has accompanied 
the English language. How did that happen?
  The concept of freedom is carried by the English language all over 
the world. And if you look where the British have gone, as far away as 
India where they taught English, and you look at the African continent 
where the English language has been established, you see that freedom 
is more likely to be found in the English-speaking peoples than of any 
other speaking peoples on the planet.
  Is that some kind of coincidence? Or is there something about our 
language that carries freedom with it? Or is it about the people that 
carry the language that understand the concept of God-given liberty, 
and then they transport that God-given liberty and that freedom to the 
countries that they are settling, that they are contributing technology 
and science and medicine and literature and academics to and economy 
to?
  I think it is a couple of things.
  One is the British had enough confidence in their culture and their 
civilization to export it to the rest of the world. And we as 
Americans, up until the last generation or so, have had enough 
confidence in our culture and civilization to export it to the rest of 
the world. And the rest of the world has embraced our values, and we 
have seen it happen over and over again.
  I point out Ataturk in Turkey, who, for 40 years, moved Turkey to the 
West, and the prosperity in the nation-state of Turkey improved the 
closer they got to the West.
  I recall seeing pictures recently in Afghanistan from the 1960s, when 
the women wore Western clothing and there was a lot more civility in 
Afghanistan and more prosperity in Afghanistan.
  I sat with the son of the Shah of Iran just a couple of months ago, 
and we had an engaging conversation. We have met several times along 
the way throughout the years. His father, the Shah, was moving Iran to 
the West. The women were uncovered; they wore Western clothes, and 
their education was accelerated, and they were moving into the Western 
world, and they had significantly more prosperity than they have today. 
Part of that was English language, part of that was culture, part of it 
is the Western civilization that we are.
  But we wouldn't have a Western civilization if we didn't have an 
English language that helps to tie that together. And the Western 
civilization itself is rooted in the real estate where

[[Page H5825]]

the very footprint of Christianity laid the foundation for 
civilization, and most times it is the English language that is part of 
that, that ties that together. And where it doesn't exist, they have 
more troubles than where it does exist.

  So I tip my hat to Winston Churchill for the wisdom that came 
together in his book. I want to reiterate, Mr. Speaker, that he never 
wrote that the English language took freedom to the rest of the world. 
He just wrote about the history of what happened to the rest of the 
world when the English-speaking peoples engaged themselves with the 
rest of the world.
  However, there is another intellect from the United Kingdom, Daniel 
Hannan. Daniel Hannan is a member of the European Parliament. He has 
written a book that goes even deeper and takes a bigger bite out of 
this. He says that, as a member of the European Parliament, he will put 
his earphones on to listen to the interpreted versions as they are 
using different language. By the way, English is the official language 
of the European Union, and he has an understanding and he is at least, 
I will say, at a minimum, marginally fluent in multiple languages. And 
as he listened to the interpreters interpret into other languages, he 
would take that earphone back away from him and he would listen to the 
language they were using, and then he would hear the interpretation in 
the other ear.
  He said that what he learned was that other languages didn't have the 
utility to express the concept of freedom that the English language 
has. I believe he is right on that.
  So our concept of freedom and liberty, at least theoretically and by 
the theory of Daniel Hannan and my own, cannot be carried in any other 
language. And the English language does carry freedom. It expresses it 
like it can't be expressed in any other language because our history 
goes back to the Magna Carta. By the way, the Romans, who laid the 
foundation for a republican form of government and the rule of law, had 
a significant imprint on what is the United Kingdom today, Old England, 
and the English language that emerged from that brought many of our 
values to us.
  If America had been formed by any other culture or any other 
civilization, any other language, we wouldn't be the country we are 
today. We wouldn't have the Declaration of Independence that we have. 
We are very unlikely to have this concept of life, liberty, and the 
pursuit of happiness. And we are very unlikely--and I will say it would 
be almost impossible--to conceive of a Bill of Rights that would give 
us the pillars of American exceptionalism, almost all of them packaged 
up in the Bill of Rights.
  This came from our history, our culture, the derivatives of Mosaic 
law, Greek age of reason, the Roman rule of law, the Roman republican 
form of government that flowed up into England and into other parts in 
Europe and came about over here to the United States of America at the 
dawn of the industrial revolution with unlimited natural resources, a 
concept of manifest destiny, a Judeo-Christian foundation of beliefs 
and morality.
  America was a giant Petri dish that was formed by, I believe, the 
hand of God that shaped this Nation and the foundations of this Nation. 
I would defy anyone, challenge anyone to reverse engineer America and 
come up with a better product than we have today.
  But our principles, our values that came to us are essential to the 
future of our country as well. It is not just enough to look at our 
history and think--well, here is what some of my colleagues believe in, 
and I have trouble with that. They believe that society evolves, and 
this evolution of society can't be reversed, it can't be changed. It is 
essentially the product that comes because of time and technology and 
the force of human nature. So they are often looking at this on both 
sides of the aisle, but I just take some blame over here on the 
Republican side of the aisle, too, and they are kind of looking over 
their shoulder thinking: I am their leader. So I better get in front of 
this society and see where it is going because it is not going to 
revert back. The fundamental principles can be changed, too.
  Well, I disagree, Mr. Speaker. I think what was a sin 2,000 years ago 
is a sin today. Fundamental principles are fundamental principles. The 
pillars of American exceptionalism are the pillars of American 
exceptionalism; and if we mess with them, if we alter them, we better 
come up with a good and a strong argument about why we should change 
these pillars of American exceptionalism. We can't just simply dish it 
off and say: Well, society has moved away from a man and a woman joined 
together in holy matrimony, so the family doesn't matter anymore, or we 
can redefine it to be something else. We can't just say, even though 
technology has proven without a doubt to us that human life begins at 
the moment of conception, that we can ignore that scientific fact and 
set aside the immorality of abortion and somehow our Nation is going to 
be blessed.
  We can't ignore the idea that even though Adam Smith wrote his book 
on ``The Wealth of Nations'' published in, what a glorious year, 1776, 
and he laid out the fundamental principles of free enterprise that 
inspired this country and a world. We can't just disregard those 
principles and decide that, well, we can have now college students that 
reject free enterprise and embrace socialism and managed economies on 
the basis of what? On the basis of some kind of belief that free 
enterprise and capitalism victimizes people because some people get 
rich and other people don't get so rich? You can be a socialist, you 
can be a Marxist, but you have to believe it is a zero sum game if you 
are one of those folks, and then you are about redistributing the 
wealth, but the wealth ends up in the hands of the elitists--the 
leftist elitists. And if you belive in free enterprise and a 
meritocracy, then you know that the pie gets bigger. The more people 
create, the bigger the pie gets. The bigger the pie gets, the more 
people are prosperous.
  It is an axiom for the world that when technology is invented and 
deployed, on average, it improves the standard of living of everybody. 
Some marginally, some not even noticeably, many a lot. But it moves the 
world into a modern place.
  How could we think that whatever we had for net assets, or let me 
say--well, that is fine. Whatever we had for net assets in the year 
1900 are not the net assets that we had in the year 2000, and not the 
net assets we have in the year 2017. We didn't have a lot of inventions 
in the year 1900 in comparison to what we have today. It was a smelly 
place, it was a dirty place, it was a dangerous place. There was no 
modern medicine. People died of diseases and the garbage got dumped out 
the windows, and the sewage ran in the streets, and we had invented the 
steam engine, and we were on the cusp of an airplane and a locomotive--
well, we had locomotives by then. And we were on the cusp of airplanes 
and automobiles.

                              {time}  1945

  Modern medicine hadn't emerged. Pharmaceuticals hadn't emerged. 
Surely, the internet had not. All of the technology that has been 
developed in the last century has made our efforts far more efficient.
  Back in the days when we were subsistence farmers and you had to 
spend 8, 10, 12 hours a day to try to raise a crop to feed you and your 
family and you had very little left to sell or to trade, our time was 
occupied with staying alive.
  I have a cousin who spent 8 years in Honduras near Tegucigalpa in the 
Peace Corps. He was struggling to try to get them to raise 10 bushels 
of corn per acre, and we were raising 100 bushels at home at the time. 
I said: ``Jim, why don't you bring some seed corn down there? Why don't 
you bring some nitrogen fertilizer down there? What is the capability 
of that soil?''
  He said: ``Oh, it is a 100-bushel soil and 100-bushel climate.''
  ``Cannot you bring them into the modern world? That is what you are 
doing down there.''
  And his answer was: ``No, my biggest task is to keep them from having 
to eat their seed corn.''
  Well, we moved along a lot faster in our society today. We have done 
genetic engineering, GMO products. We have gone from their 10 bushels 
an acre now to 300 bushels. We are on the way to 300-bushel corn. We 
can feed 7 billion people on the planet, and we will be prepared to 
feed 9 billion people on the planet as well, Mr. Speaker.

[[Page H5826]]

  But technology has always moved us forward. It has always put us in a 
place where the standard of living for the world was improved, whether 
it was medicine, where not only our standard of living, our quality of 
life and the length of our life has been improved dramatically over the 
last couple of generations, or the technology that comes from this 
iPhone that is here, that has far more storage capacity and computer 
capacity in it than was in Apollo 13 that went to the Moon, and it 
saves us time. We communicate in real time. It has changed our lives.
  When I started my construction business, we all had to go in to eat 
lunch at noon, and we had 12 until 1 when we sat by the telephone and 
ate our lunch because that is when we communicated and reset our 
afternoon. We didn't have any other way to communicate with each other 
other than to be by that landline phone. And when they rolled that 
landline phone out, maybe 40 years earlier or so, we were pretty happy 
to have that because we had to go talk to people face-to-face to 
communicate.
  Now if you send out an email and it is one that needs an action on 
it, if you don't get an answer back in 15, 20 minutes or 30 minutes, 
you think, well, that person is not a very good businessman or -woman 
if they are not answering their email, they are not answering their 
texts.
  So now we make decisions on the fly. It is real time. Our efficiency 
is far much better because the communications are far much better. That 
is what has happened with technology. That is what has happened to move 
us into the modern era of the world.
  But we still have this thing that is culture and civilization. We 
still have this thing that is language. And I know that the argument 
has been made to me that one day we will just hold up our iPhone and 
someone who speaks another language, it will come back and it will be 
interpreted into our ears, and we will be able to understand what they 
say.
  And I think that will happen. I think that will happen, but I don't 
think we should overvalue what that means. Because if we are going to 
walk around and listen to our iPhone even when we are looking at people 
face-to-face and eye-to-eye, and if there is a delay in the 
interpretation--and there will be that delay, that will last 
indefinitely--we still have those pieces of our culture and our 
civilization that are instantaneous.
  When people speak to us, we need to be able to hear and understand 
their voice inflections. We need to watch the body language and timing 
with the voice inflections. We need to pick up the slang and the 
vernacular that is used within the communities that we are. A nation 
needs to be able to do that in real time, instantaneously. And when we 
can do that, we are bound together and suspicion dissipates and unity 
comes together.
  That is why America needs to establish English as the official 
language, because it is our common language. We are extraordinarily 
blessed to have English as our common language, and we can eliminate, 
then, the billions of dollars that we spend as we hire interpreters, 
and we slow down our process. And if we establish English as the 
official language, we will accelerate the learning of our language all 
across this land.
  I mean, I don't know why in the world Spanish is in the airport in 
LaGuardia, for example. That is a long ways away from any country that 
speaks Spanish, but that is up there in dual signs, in English and in 
Spanish as you walk through the LaGuardia Airport.
  As I am in a foreign country, I sometimes try to learn the language; 
and if they have got dual signs up there, I will try to read the sign 
to learn that other language while I am there. But I also know this: my 
eyes always revert to the language that I know and that I am 
comfortable with, and for me it is English.
  When we put multiple languages on our signs in this country, it just 
helps facilitate for people--it takes away their desire to learn a 
foreign language. And so I am a strong supporter of English as the 
official language, H.R. 997, and I urge its movement here--and 
cosponsorship is necessary, of course--to finally get a vote on English 
as the official language here in the floor of the House of 
Representatives.
  Mr. Speaker, I spent 6 years on this project in the State of Iowa, 
and I brought it three different ways in three different general 
assemblies. And finally, in the last term that I was there, I was able 
to--well, I didn't get to see the bill signed into law because the 
Governor wasn't thrilled about the bill-signing ceremony, but he signed 
it nonetheless, and it is the situation in Iowa and in nearly 30 States 
in this country that have adopted English as their official language.
  The bill that I have introduced here is a mirror of the bill that is 
now law in Iowa. We did have to sue once on it and litigate, but it was 
because the secretary of state was determined to violate the law. He 
got pulled back in order. Otherwise, there would have been no 
litigation on the legislation itself. It has happened smoothly, and it 
has been a useful utility.
  It saved money in the State of Iowa. It saved money in every State 
where English is the official language, and it is time for this 
Congress to adopt that a majority of the States have established 
English as the official language. I intend to continue beating this 
drum until such time as it becomes law, and at that point, then I will 
begin the celebration myself, Mr. Speaker.
  I was about to change subjects, but I will carry on for just a 
moment.
  I should also say that English is the language of success. Those who 
have developed proficiency in the English language do better than those 
who don't. We are seeing people who are sometimes three generations 
into America without learning the official language.
  I recognize my friend from Tennessee has arrived and I yield to the 
gentleman from Tennessee, Mr. Jim Cooper.
  Mr. COOPER. I thank the gentleman from Iowa for yielding.


            Permission to Revise Remarks on Amendment No. 15

  Mr. COOPER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that I may be 
permitted to revise my remarks, made during consideration of amendment 
No. 15 in the Committee of the Whole earlier today, beyond technical, 
grammatical, and typographical corrections.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Marshall). Is there objection to the 
request of the gentleman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. COOPER. I thank my friend from Iowa for yielding.
  Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I am always happy to yield to 
the gentleman from Tennessee, and I appreciate his contribution to the 
United States Congress while I have served here, and each year that he 
has been here as well.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to shift gears a little bit now and address 
the circumstances of the NDAA debate that has taken place.
  I want to express my disappointment with some of the decisions that 
were made, some of the votes on the amendments, and also decisions that 
came from the Rules Committee.
  Last year, in the authorization of the National Defense Authorization 
Act, I offered a number of amendments that were made in order, and I 
brought them here to the floor. We had a legitimate debate on those 
amendments, and I appreciate the ability to do that. But I also want to 
reiterate that this is a deliberative Congress, and Members have a 
right to be on this floor and to debate and to vote.
  The Rules Committee's job is to make sure that that is in an orderly 
fashion, and I recognize that when you have well over 100 amendments 
that are offered, we could be here a long time if everyone debated 
those.
  I would also point out that there was a unanimous consent agreement 
that was negotiated here a little bit ago, and the chairman, Mr. 
Thornberry, made the unanimous consent request that the balance of the 
amendments that weren't debated today would be approved en bloc. I 
supported that, and I verbally voted in support of it. That is a 
process that we do here.
  But the amendments that I offered before the Rules Committee, all 
four of them, every single one of them was turned down, even a couple 
of them that I offered last year that were debated here on the floor.
  The first one was an amendment, and it is this: ensuring that no 
funds under

[[Page H5827]]

the NDAA would be used to enlist DACA aliens--Deferred Action for 
Childhood Arrivals was how President Obama listed it--to ensure that no 
funds will be used to enlist illegal aliens into our military, 
including our DACA personnel, into the United States military when they 
only consider them through the MAVNI program, which is to try to find 
special skill sets that aren't available in the United States. That is 
what the MAVNI program is about.
  But President Obama, I will say, distorted that program, Mr. Speaker, 
and he began to push the DACA recipients through there. Well, DACA is 
unconstitutional. The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, as he 
named it, is unconstitutional. President Obama, 22 times, told the 
world that he didn't have the constitutional authority to grant amnesty 
to people who came into America, at least allegedly, before they were 
18 years old--22 times.
  The last time that I recall was at a high school here in Washington, 
D.C., which was only 2 or 3 weeks before he issued this policy, which 
was in September of 2014, to grant a quasi--and I will say an 
unconstitutional legal status to the Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals.
  Now, it has been my position, conviction, and belief that if we 
reward lawbreakers, we get more lawbreakers. And it was the conviction 
of President Obama that he didn't have the constitutional authority to 
reward these lawbreakers. In his lecture to the high school students 
shortly before he implemented this policy, President Obama said: No, 
you are smart students. You know that there are three branches of 
government.
  Article I is the legislative branch; they pass the laws. Article II 
is the executive branch, which he headed at the time. They enforce the 
laws. Article III are the courts, and they interpret the laws. That is 
about as clear and concise as it gets. And President Obama was an 
adjunct professor who taught constitutional law at the University of 
Chicago.

  I would take issue with some of his constitutional interpretations, 
but I would not take issue with that one. He was right. He had no 
constitutional authority to award a de facto amnesty to people who 
attested that they were brought into this country maybe against their 
will, without their knowledge, or too young to be held accountable, to 
reward them with a path to citizenship.
  But that is what this NDAA legislation fails to do is to strike out 
this language that was implemented by President Obama in September of 
2014 that rewards people who attest that they came into America 
illegally, committed the crime of unlawful entry into the United 
States, criminals who then stepped up into the military and applied to 
go into the military and took an oath to support and defend our 
Constitution after they broke our laws.
  They had to lie to get into the military, so they committed the crime 
of unlawful entry. They lied to get into the military, and then they 
took an oath to support and defend the Constitution.
  Well, two of those three things are wrong at least. But did they mean 
it when they took the oath to support and defend the Constitution? Can 
you trust them if they violated our immigration laws and then lied 
about that in order to get into the military?
  This President set about rewarding those kind of lawbreakers, those 
criminals, by granting them a path to citizenship because they signed 
up in the military.
  I simply offered an amendment at the Rules Committee to be able to 
debate this on the floor of the House of Representatives so Congress 
could bring its considered judgment.
  Now, I have an oath that I have taken, and that is to support and 
defend the Constitution of the United States, too, Mr. Speaker. When I 
see a bill come before me that, on its face, rewards lawbreakers under 
a policy that is a constitutional violation, one that Secretary Kelly 
said as recently as this morning he doesn't believe that the 
constitutionality of this can be upheld, and he doesn't expect that the 
Justice Department is going to defend it, and he anticipates that there 
will be a suit that will be filed--and I will tell you the specific 
date is September 5--that I believe will successfully litigate and put 
an end to this DACA program.
  This Congress, every Member of this United States Congress has taken 
an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States--
every one. And I don't think there is a single one that stood there and 
had their fingers crossed behind their back as they took their oath and 
said: ``Oh, unless I don't like it, it makes me politically 
uncomfortable, or unless I have some sympathy for the people that might 
be facing the enforcement of this supreme law of the land, the 
Constitution of the United States.''

                              {time}  2000

  They don't get to cross their fingers behind their back and make an 
oath that they don't mean. So when we take this oath--all 435 of us in 
the House and 100 of us in the Senate--we better mean it. We better 
believe what we say because we tell our constituents: You send me to 
Washington, D.C., send me to represent you in the United States 
Congress, and I will uphold the Constitution. That is the number one 
duty, to uphold the Constitution.
  Well, in this Constitution, to support and defend it, I tell you it 
requires the President to preserve, protect, and defend the 
Constitution of the United States, and, under the Take Care Clause, 
take care that the laws are faithfully executed. That doesn't mean kill 
off the law. It means enforce the law.
  The President has violated the Constitution. Now the Rules Committee 
denied the ability of the House of Representatives to strike this out 
of the policy that exists under the authorization now of the National 
Defense Authorization Act. They are asking me to vote for this bill 
even though it violates a principle that was encompassed in our oath 
and a principle that was encompassed in everyone's oath.
  Not only did we not get to put these Members of Congress up on a vote 
and challenge them afterwards as to whether their conscience is clear 
and whether they meant it when they took an oath to support and defend 
the Constitution, we don't get to have the debate. We don't get to have 
the vote.
  So here is the National Defense Authorization Act all ready for a 
final passage to come to the floor tomorrow with unconstitutional 
components encompassed within it, that being something that Barack 
Obama 22 times said was unconstitutional, and we don't even get a 
debate or a vote here on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
That is amendment No. 1, Mr. Speaker. That troubles me a lot.
  Second, a simple amendment that I brought last year ensuring that 
funds are not used to house UACs on military installations--
unaccompanied alien children. When unaccompanied alien minors come into 
the United States illegally, they are violating Federal law. They are 
committing the crime of unlawful entry into the United States. They are 
facing up to 1 year in prison if we convict them and sentence them to 
the maximum of the law for one unlawful entry into the United States. 
We had a policy that existed under the Barack Obama administration to 
start to house them on our military bases.
  Our military bases are for our national security. They are not there 
to be babysitting for children who are under 18--so they say--to house 
them on those bases to weaken our defense capability and interrupt the 
process of our military. We need that amendment to clean up another 
mistake of the Obama administration, and it was denied by the Rules 
Committee.
  So we don't get to have a debate. We could very well have an 
administration that just continues the old process going of housing 
unaccompanied alien minors--illegal aliens--on the bases in America 
consuming our military resources for something like that. I disagree. I 
don't think they should be housed on our bases.
  By the way, we ought to be picking them up at the border and sending 
them back to the country they came from. That is what every other 
nation does or should do. Those that don't are making colossal 
mistakes. I will try to stay out of what I think is going on in Europe 
today, but they are being subsumed by idiotic immigration policies.
  The next amendment that was denied by the Rules Committee was the 
Obama-era Executive Order 13672 that prohibits Federal contractors and 
subcontractors from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation 
and gender

[[Page H5828]]

identity. It is just an unnecessary executive order, common decency, 
common courtesy.
  How do you discriminate against someone if you don't know what their 
sexual orientation is and gender identity is?
  That has not been a problem out in this society. That executive order 
needed to be rescinded. We don't get a debate or a vote on that 
executive order either. This is the amendment that I introduced.
  Vicky Hartzler from Missouri, thankfully--I appreciate her bringing 
an amendment that was very similar to mine. My amendment ensured that 
no funds are used by the Department of Defense to force servicemen and 
-women to undergo any kind of transgender sensitivity courses or to 
screen servicemembers regarding gender reassignment surgery.
  I will just couple it with discussion and debate on the Hartzler 
amendment. And that is this: that the United States military should not 
be used as an experiment. It shouldn't be used to do a social 
experiment agenda. Yet, under the Obama administration, not only did 
they decide to put an end to Don't Ask, Don't Tell, they set up an 
affirmative action program to promote people through the ranks who 
would assert their orientation to be different from heterosexual.
  Then we got into this national fixation on transgenderism. And the 
orders came down in to the Department of Defense through our Secretary 
of Defense that the American taxpayer--well, let's just say we borrow 
money from China and Saudi Arabia to do sex reassignment surgery on 
people in our military?
  It is something that has never happened before without a vote or a 
debate here on the floor of the House of Representatives or in the 
Senate for that matter. It is not a policy that has been approved by 
America or Americans, but a policy that was more or less shoehorned 
into this by the former President of the United States and the former 
Commander in Chief Barack Obama.
  I can't believe that President Trump thinks it is a good idea to 
spend one-quarter or more billion dollars doing sex reassignment 
surgery, taking people out of the service of the military for the 
better part of a year while they recover from this surgery and thinking 
that somehow they are going to make our Nation stronger by using those 
resources when we have military members who are on food stamps today.
  So we would divert resources for sex reassignment surgery, thinking 
that it would somehow enhance our national security? Sex reassignment 
surgery enhances our national security?
  I can't say that with a straight face and expect anybody in this 
country is going to believe this.
  So here we are, an America that is the unchallenged greatest nation 
in the world, significantly more powerful militarily than any other 
country in the world, but also with responsibilities that expand beyond 
that of any other country in the world, and we would obsess ourselves 
with the idea that we are going to send an advertisement out to people 
all over America, which is--well, maybe even outside of America--if you 
are contemplating sex reassignment surgery, come into the military and 
declare yourself a transgender, and then we will pay for that surgery. 
And we will have a whole lineup of people over at Walter Reed for their 
sex reassignment surgery laying in hospital beds next to our noble 
wounded who have lost an arm or a leg, or maybe both arms and both 
legs, maybe that have sacrificed a great deal, and we are going to 
divert the resources--the considerable resources--and medical skill and 
capabilities of our military medicine system that we have to sex 
reassignment surgery? Who would have thought?
  I can't believe that the pundits haven't unloaded already on this all 
over the world. We are going to be the laughingstock of the world if 
this comes out that the Hartzler amendment failed on the floor of the 
House of Representatives by a handful of votes, but it failed. So that 
says to those who want to enter into the military and are contemplating 
sex reassignment surgery--by the way, I am not using the language that 
they are using. They are saying this is gender reassignment surgery--
gender reassignment surgery.
  Well, gender cannot be reassigned. That is in one's head. Sex is 
south of the border. Gender is in the head. It is not gender 
reassignment, it is sex reassignment surgery.
  We would take those resources that we need to be using to take our 
combat-wounded and those who are ill and sick and serving in our 
military and get them well with the best care that we can provide for 
them, the battles we have had here on the floor to try to get the VA up 
to speed and they would divert those resources for sex reassignment 
surgery and for pharmaceuticals and the kind of medication that would 
make them physically more like they say they are in their head?
  That is not a problem for the military to solve, Mr. Speaker.
  I am greatly troubled by the arrangement of the amendments, those 
that were allowed and those that were denied. This amendment was the 
Hartzler amendment that failed.
  I can only think of the MASH unit, and I will probably stop with 
that, Mr. Speaker, and not go any further into what images that brings 
to mind for me. But I saw that there were 24 Republicans that voted 
against the Hartzler amendment. That is greatly troubling to me, Mr. 
Speaker, to see that. By the way, Mr. Speaker, every single Democrat 
voted against the Hartzler amendment.
  In the course here of about 18 to 24 months, this Congress thinks 
that they are reflecting the will of the American people, and now we 
have not only a social experiment but a medical experiment, a 
transgender medical sex reassignment surgery experiment going on in our 
military while we need to maintain ourselves as the strongest and most 
capable military in the world.
  Our focus needs to be singular. We have people who can't get into the 
United States military for one reason or another. Maybe they aren't a 
strong enough physical specimen. Maybe they can't pass that physical 
test.
  Former Secretary of Defense Bob Gates testified before Congress some 
years ago. He said that obesity is a national security problem in the 
United States, that too many of our young people sit in front of the 
television or in front of their Xbox. They eat junk food, they get fat, 
and they are too heavy to meet the standards to qualify to be recruited 
into our military in any branch of the service.
  He said that if we don't do something to control the diets of young 
people so that they are not too fat to get into the military, he said 
it is a national security issue. Obesity in our young people is a 
threat to our national security.
  Yet, rather than focusing resources on getting these young people in 
shape, we would get out the scalpel and do sexual reassignment surgery 
on somebody from the same generation who went to the same school and 
probably sat next to some of those other youth in the high school 
classes, and we would take a man and physically turn him into a woman 
or take a woman and physically turn her into a man at their request 
because she says: up here that is where I am.
  Don't they know that when they sign up for the military? Can't they 
make that decision beforehand and can't the military screen for that?
  If they can screen for obesity, if they can screen for intellect and 
for IQ, if they can screen for medical records and medical history, if 
they can screen for criminal activity or violations of the law, if they 
can say you can't get into our military because you don't meet our 
standards in any of these, if you are too short, if you are physically 
unable like my uncle who was physically unable to serve in the 
military, all of those things, from obesity to too short, to having 
flatfeet, to being cross-eyed, whatever it might be, they can say: no, 
you don't fit our standards.
  But if you walk up there and you say, ``Well, I think here I am a 
woman and I am not a woman here,'' then we will bring you in because 
you meet all other standards and we have got these specialists up at 
Walter Reed and other facilities around America, we will surgically 
make you into whatever you want to be. And somehow that strengthens 
America's security and helps us to fight our enemies?
  This is so utterly ludicrous for the United States military to be 
engaged in such a diversion from defending our country. Yet this 
Congress turned down the Hartzler amendment. At least

[[Page H5829]]

the Rules Committee allowed it to be offered. They didn't allow mine. 
They allowed that one to be offered. This is what we get? This kind of 
answer?

  Every Democrat says: oh, this is okay. We want to do this. It is 
important to us.
  And 24 Republicans agreed with them? Where is our country going? 
Can't we focus on the things that are important? Can't we focus on 
these constitutional principles?
  Vote down this DACA thing that rewards lawbreakers, and support the 
Hartzler amendment and end this idea that we are going to do great 
medical and social experiments in the United States military and 
somehow out of that we are going to--there is no way in the world that 
makes us stronger.
  So somehow do we even maintain our power when we become the 
laughingstock of the world?
  There was also an initiative that I had to fight here a while back 
about meatless Mondays in our military. I recall a picture of the 
Norwegian military. They are vegans on Monday. Meatless military in the 
Norwegian military, and they are sitting there eating their vegan 
sandwiches and on their shoulder patch is a reindeer. I suppose that is 
their national animal, and that is good over there.
  For us, we want a strong military. We want to maintain a noble 
military. We want to focus these resources on those things that matter. 
They are all going to take an oath to support and defend the 
Constitution when they sign up and commit themselves to the military.

                              {time}  2015

  God bless them for doing that. I take it, too. There are 435 of us 
here who did, and 100 down the Rotunda in the Senate did.
  How many of us mean it? How many of us will take that stand and say: 
I will not vote for a piece of legislation that is unconstitutional 
because it violates my oath of office; and I am not going to commit the 
resources of the taxpayers of the United States of America to do 
social, medical, and pharmaceutical experiments on people who now would 
be attracted to come into the military for that purpose and then be 
discharged out onto the streets of America, having been reconstructed 
into a different kind of human being with a different hair cut?
  That can happen on their own. That can happen in civilian life. That 
is each person's cross to bear or each person's choice, but it is not 
the duty of the United States military.
  It is a national security issue, according to former Secretary of 
Defense Bob Gates, because too many of our youth are too overweight to 
meet the standards to get into boot camp. My answer to that was: if it 
is a military national security issue, sign them up. Put them in there. 
They can just stay in basics until they make weight. Maybe you add 
another 2 weeks, 4 weeks, or 6 weeks to their training. You will get 
them down to weight, if you work them hard enough, if you watch their 
diet. It will be a good thing for them.
  It is not a national security issue, in my opinion, for too many 
young people to be overweight and they can't qualify for the military. 
If you work them hard enough, feed them right, keep them long enough, 
they will make weight.
  But it is far wiser to do that than it is to do sex reassignment 
surgery and take somebody out of operations for 200-some days out of a 
year in order to recover from this reconstructive surgery.
  It is a ridiculous thing that has happened today in the United States 
Congress. It is disgraceful that a vote like that could take place and 
that a majority of the people voting on the Hartzler amendment would 
turn it down when we have a country to save, a country to protect.
  So I suggest this, Mr. Speaker. If this NDAA bill fails tomorrow, it 
will come back again. It will come back again with the Hartzler 
language in it, under a rule that will allow it to pass here on the 
floor of the House of Representatives.
  Democrats are not going to help us pass this bill. Only a handful of 
them will do that. So Republicans have to do the right thing. We should 
stop dividing ourselves. We should stop letting America be embarrassed 
in front of the word for a ridiculous decision that was made today.
  So I urge a correction to the NDAA, and I urge English to be adopted 
as the official language of the United States of America, because it 
unifies us and helps us communicate with each other.
  A common form of communications currency is the most powerful 
unifying force throughout the entire history of the world. We need to 
employ it here and protect it in law here in the United States of 
America.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



