

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5764]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               THANKING SUSAN GUREKOVICH FOR HER SERVICE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the wonderful career of Susan Gurekovich, the office manager and 
academy coordinator caseworker in my Bellefonte district office. After 
nearly 40 years of service to the people of the Fifth Congressional 
District of Pennsylvania, which spanned the terms of three separate 
Members of the House, Susan will retire on Friday, July 14.
  She will certainly be missed by all.
  Mr. Speaker, Susan began her career on February 19, 1979. She began 
working for Congressman Bill Clinger of Warren County, Pennsylvania. 
She would spend the following 18 years providing top-notch constituent 
services to the people of Pennsylvania.
  Susan said she was blessed to work for Congressman Clinger and to 
learn from his experienced staff, especially her mentor, Becky Mills. 
Susan has seen a lot through her 38 years of service, and her smile, 
friendliness, and can-do attitude has only grown larger over the years.
  Susan, herself, has mentored countless interns and employees during 
her tenure. It was decades ago that a young intern named Rick Santorum 
spent time in the office during his tenure at Penn State University. 
Later Susan would watch his career progress as he eventually found 
himself in the House of Representatives and the United States Senate.
  When Congressman Clinger retired and Congressman John Peterson was 
sworn in, he welcomed Susan's experience as he took office in 1997. 
Susan continued her role, which included overseeing the Military 
Service Academy Board. Susan also worked to help nominate the best and 
the brightest young men and women in the congressional district for our 
U.S. service academies.
  She has seen scores of young, optimistic, patriotic students walk 
through her door with the hope of attending one of our great academies. 
These same students have been fortunate to work with a true civil 
servant like Susan. She is someone who is not only dedicated to her 
job, but enthusiastic about it day in and day out.
  When Congressman Peterson retired in 2008 and I was elected in 2009, 
it was an easy fit to retain Susan on my district staff as a caseworker 
and office manager. Her dedication to the people of the Fifth 
Congressional District knows no bounds. She is always in search of an 
answer and works diligently to navigate our Federal agencies to resolve 
issues and problems for our constituents.
  To say we will miss Susan is an understatement. Her warm welcome to 
all who cross her path will not be forgotten or easily replaced. 
Everyone who has the pleasure of interacting with her can see her 
passion.
  Susan is a hometown girl and a self-described country girl at heart. 
She graduated from South Hills School of Business Technology and 
supplemented her degree with courses at Penn State University.
  I know she looks forward to spending more time with her husband, 
John, and they plan to travel and visit with family and friends. Susan 
said she will take a more active role in her church as a deacon to 
continue her life of service.
  And that is exactly what Susan has done for the past 38 years for the 
people of central and north central Pennsylvania: serve. She has helped 
and assisted so many. When you meet with Susan, you will always be 
greeted with a welcoming smile, a listening ear, and a caring heart.
  I thank Susan for her dedication, for serving the American people, 
and for helping select so many bright young minds to serve in our 
military academies.
  On behalf of the Congress of the United States, I thank Susan for 
more than four decades of service to the people's House. She embodies 
the character of this institution and has been a steadfast advocate for 
countless constituents, three Members of the House, and the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
  On behalf of my family and her second family, the staff in 
Pennsylvania and here in Washington, we wish Susan the best for a well-
deserved retirement.

                          ____________________



