

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5304-H5305]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        HONORING AL ST. LAWRENCE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Carter) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
Savannah-Chatham Metro Police Department's construction of its newest 
training facility, which memorializes long-time Sheriff Al St. 
Lawrence.
  After 21 years of service as an officer, St. Lawrence ran for Chatham 
County Sheriff in 1992. Because of his outstanding service to our 
community, his constituents reelected him five times. He held this 
position until he passed away on November 25, 2015.
  Sheriff St. Lawrence was also responsible for overseeing the 
significant renovation of the county jail, which ultimately added an 
additional 400,000 square feet to the facility and doubled inmate 
occupancy.
  Remembering Sheriff St. Lawrence's dedication to training personnel, 
the Chatham County Police Department developed the Al St. Lawrence 
Recruitment and Training Range. This range will not only provide 
effective training resources to officers but will also house the 
Sheriff's Office Internal Affairs Division and the U.S. Marshals 
Service.
  The facility is located on 10 acres of property at the Chatham County 
Sheriff's Office and includes several training ranges, including cable 
ranges, steel target ranges, and a Rogers Range, which improves an 
officer's aim when discharging a firearm.
  Twice a month, the facility will also host a civilian gun class, 
which is open to the public. Educating the public on firearm safety 
will reduce the risk of accidental deaths from the misuse of guns.
  Sheriff St. Lawrence's enduring service will forever be etched in the 
history of Chatham County, and his contributions will ensure that 
Chatham County will remain a safe, thriving community for years to 
come.


                          Lineman Appreciation

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor our 
electric linemen, the men and women who ensure our lights stay shining 
every day.
  In Georgia, electric utility companies have started a movement to 
recognize the hard work linemen do every day. Companies such as Georgia 
Power and MEAG Power celebrate their workers, who make modern living 
possible.
  Without linemen, we would not have many of the things we have grown 
accustomed to using. Air conditioning, refrigerators, warm showers, 
entertainment devices, and plenty more, are all

[[Page H5305]]

things we would have to learn to live without. It is easy to take these 
services for granted, but it is important to remember the people who 
make it all possible.

  Earlier this year, we witnessed the valuable and honorable service 
these individuals provide when severe thunderstorms and tornadoes tore 
through Georgia over 3 days. Homes and businesses were destroyed and 
thousands of citizens were left in the dark. Crews of linemen all 
across the State joined together and selflessly worked for 2 weeks 
until every light was back on.
  It is our duty not to overlook the workers and services that make our 
lives easier. I want to take this time and sincerely thank not just 
linemen in Georgia, but all linemen across the Nation, for powering the 
life inside our homes.

                          ____________________



