

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3207]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING CECILIA ZARATE-LAUN

  Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the life and legacy 
of Cecilia Zarate-Laun. Her passing leaves Wisconsin without one of its 
greatest advocates for justice and peace, and I am proud to pay tribute 
to this extraordinary woman.
  Cecilia was born in Santander Province of Colombia. She was the 
oldest of five sisters and attended school in Bucaramanga and at the 
National University of Colombia. Following the completion of her 
studies, she took a position as a professor of nutrition, a job that 
led to her arrival in Madison, WI for graduate school.
  Cecilia received a scholarship to attend the University of Wisconsin-
Madison for her master's degree. While studying in Madison, Cecilia met 
her beloved husband, Jack. After completion of graduate school, Cecilia 
returned to Colombia, working as a nutritionist for the Colombian 
Government's National Nutrition Plan. In 1976, she married John 
``Jack'' Laun and the following year returned to the United States.
  In 1987, extended civil war in Colombia inspired Cecilia and Jack to 
cofound the Colombia Support Network CSN, a grassroots human rights 
organization based in Madison, WI. Cecilia's work with CSN was her 
pride and joy. As CSN program director, Cecilia worked tirelessly to 
connect Americans to Colombian communities affected by the war. She was 
inspired to help establish new chapters of CSN in locations ranging 
from the University of Wisconsin-Madison to central New York, 
connecting these communities through a ``sister cities'' program to 
rural Colombian communities facing violence during the Colombian civil 
war.
  She led over 50 delegations of citizens, journalists, and public 
officials to Colombia so they could fully understand the effect of the 
civil war. After working with Cecilia and CSN to establish a sister 
community relationship between Dane County, WI and San Jose de 
Apartado, Colombia, I had the honor to accompany her on one of those 
delegations in 1993.
  In addition to her public service through CSN, Cecilia was a member 
of the national board of directors of the Women's International League 
for Peace and Freedom. She was also a member of the Latin American 
Subcommittee of the American Friends Service Committee--Quakers--served 
on the board of directors of the Wisconsin Network for Peace and 
Justice, and, in October of 2015, received the Global Citizen of the 
Year Award from the Madison Chapter of the United Nations Association.
  Regardless of the cause or project, Cecilia approached everything 
with unparalleled strength, courage, and a sense of selflessness. She 
approached her battle with cancer with the same attitude. Over the last 
4 years, while Cecilia fought against her disease, she continued to 
fight for others. Her strength was truly amazing.
  While Cecilia is greatly missed by her family, friends, and 
community, she leaves behind a legacy for future leaders to emulate. 
She will always be remembered for her courageous effort to fight for 
those who could not fight for themselves.
  Cecilia had an incredibly big heart and an unwavering commitment to 
others. I am fortunate to have been able to call her my friend.

                          ____________________



