

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 68 (Thursday, April 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 68 (Thursday, April 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2811]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself and Mr. Labrador):
       H.R. 2104. A bill to modify the boundaries of the Morley 
     Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. WEBSTER of Florida (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Mr. Smith of Texas, Mrs. Comstock, Ms. Rosen, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Knight, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Marshall, and 
             Mr. Posey):
       H.R. 2105. A bill to require the Director of the National 
     Institute of Standards and Technology to disseminate guidance 
     to help reduce small business cybersecurity risks, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Meadows, 
             Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Valadao, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Schiff, Mr. Beyer, and Mr. Himes):
       H.R. 2106. A bill to provide high-skilled visas for 
     nationals of the Republic of Korea, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Rokita, Mr. 
             Lipinski, and Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 2107. A bill to amend the Pilot's Bill of Rights to 
     facilitate appeals, to limit the reexamination of airman 
     certificates, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Ms. Sinema, and Ms. 
             Titus):
       H.R. 2108. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide 
     additional educational assistance benefits under the Post- 9/
     11 Educational Assistance Program of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to certain eligible individuals; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 2109. A bill to require the development of a national 
     strategy to secure schools against terrorism nationwide, and 
     ensure domestic preparedness for and the response to 
     terrorism, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NADLER:
       H.R. 2110. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide an increasingly larger earned income credit 
     for families with more than 3 children; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mrs. Lowey, and Mr. 
             Suozzi):
       H.R. 2111. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for adjustments in the individual income tax 
     rates to reflect regional differences in the cost-of-living; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio:
       H.R. 2112. A bill to establish a commission to study the 
     relocation of select executive agencies or divisions of such 
     agencies outside the Washington metropolitan area, to make 
     recommendations to Congress on appropriate findings, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mr. Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 2113. A bill to require the Food and Drug 
     Administration to expedite review of pharmaceuticals that are 
     approved for marketing in the European Union; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOHO:
       H.R. 2114. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to implement security measures in the electronic tax return 
     filing process to prevent tax refund fraud from being 
     perpetrated with electronic identity theft; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas (for herself, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Bera, Ms. 
             Esty, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Rosen, Mr. McNerney, 
             Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Foster, Mr. Takano, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, and Mr. Crist):
       H. Res. 273. A resolution supporting the principles and 
     goals of the March for Science taking place in Washington, 
     D.C. and cities all over the world on Earth Day, April 22, 
     2017; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.

                          ____________________



