

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4245-H4248]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIP ACT OF 2017

  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2266) to amend title 28 of the United States Code to 
authorize the appointment of additional bankruptcy judges; and for 
other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2266

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 
     2017''.

     SEC. 2. CONVERSION OF THE TEMPORARY OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY 
                   JUDGE TO THE PERMANENT OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY 
                   JUDGE IN CERTAIN JUDICIAL DISTRICTS.

       (a) District of Delaware.--
       (1) The temporary office of 4 bankruptcy judges authorized 
     for the district of Delaware by section 1223(b)(1)(C) of 
     Public Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and 
     extended by section 2(a)(1)(C) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
     Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the 
     permanent office of bankruptcy judge and represented in the 
     amendment made by section 3(1) of this Act, and may be 
     filled.
       (2) The temporary office of bankruptcy judge authorized for 
     the district of Delaware by section 3(a)(3) of Public Law 
     102-361 (106 Stat. 966; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by 
     section 1223(c)(1) of Public Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 198; 28 
     U.S.C. 152 note) and section 2(b)(1) of Public Law 112-121 
     (126 Stat. 347; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to 
     the permanent office of bankruptcy judge and represented in 
     the amendment made by section 3(1) of this Act, and may be 
     filled.
       (b) Southern District of Florida.--The temporary office of 
     2 bankruptcy judges authorized for the southern district of 
     Florida by section 1223(b)(1)(D) of Public Law 109-8 (119 
     Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by section 
     2(a)(1)(D) of Public Law 112-121 (126 Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 
     152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent office of 
     bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment made by 
     section 3(3) of this Act, and may be filled.
       (c) District of Maryland.--The temporary office of 1 
     bankruptcy judge first appointed as authorized for the 
     district of Maryland by section 1223(b)(1)(F) of Public Law 
     109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by 
     section 2(a)(1)(F) of Public Law 112-121 (126 Stat. 346; 28 
     U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent office 
     of bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment made by 
     section 3(4) of this Act, and may be filled.
       (d) Eastern District of Michigan.--The temporary office of 
     bankruptcy judge authorized for the eastern district of 
     Michigan by section 1223(b)(1)(G) of Public Law 109-8 (119 
     Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by section 
     2(a)(1)(G) of Public Law 112-121 (126 Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 
     152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent office of 
     bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment made by 
     section 3(5) of this Act, and may be filled.
       (e) District of Nevada.--The temporary office of bankruptcy 
     judge authorized for the district of Nevada by section 
     1223(b)(1)(T) of Public Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 
     152 note),

[[Page H4246]]

     and extended by section 2(a)(1)(Q) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
     Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the 
     permanent office of bankruptcy judge and represented in the 
     amendment made by section 3(6) of this Act, and may be 
     filled.
       (f) Eastern District of North Carolina.--The temporary 
     office of bankruptcy judge authorized for the eastern 
     district of North Carolina by section 1223(b)(1)(M) of Public 
     Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended 
     by section 2(a)(1)(J) of Public Law 112-121 (126 Stat. 346; 
     28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent 
     office of bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment 
     made by section 3(7) of this Act, and may be filled.
       (g) District of Puerto Rico.--
       (1) The temporary office of bankruptcy judge authorized for 
     the district of Puerto Rico by section 1223(b)(1)(P) of 
     Public Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and 
     extended by section 2(a)(1)(M) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
     Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the 
     permanent office of bankruptcy judge and represented in the 
     amendment made by section 3(8) of this Act, and may be 
     filled.
       (2) The temporary office of bankruptcy judge authorized for 
     the district of Puerto Rico by section 3(a)(7) of Public Law 
     102-361 (106 Stat. 966; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by 
     section 1223(c)(1) of Public Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 198; 28 
     U.S.C. 152 note) and section 2(b)(1) of Public Law 112-121 
     (126 Stat. 347; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to 
     the permanent office of bankruptcy judge and is represented 
     in the amendment made by section 3(8) of this Act, and may be 
     filled.
       (h) Eastern District of Virginia.--The temporary office of 
     bankruptcy judge authorized for the eastern district of 
     Virginia by section 1223(b)(1)(R) of Public Law 109-8 (119 
     Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by section 
     2(a)(1)(P) of Public Law 112-121 (126 Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 
     152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent office of 
     bankruptcy judge and is represented in the amendment made by 
     section 3(9) of this Act, and may be filled.

     SEC. 3. PERMANENT OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGE AUTHORIZED.

       To reflect the conversion of the temporary office of 
     bankruptcy judge to the permanent office of bankruptcy judge 
     made by the operation of section 2, and to authorize the 
     appointment of additional bankruptcy judges, section 
     152(a)(2) of title 28 of the United States Code is amended--
       (1) in the item relating to the district of Delaware by 
     striking ``1'' and inserting ``8'',
       (2) in the item relating to the middle district of Florida 
     by striking ``8'' and inserting ``9'',
       (3) in the item relating to the southern district of 
     Florida by striking ``5'' and inserting ``7'',
       (4) in the item relating to the district of Maryland by 
     striking ``4'' and inserting ``5'',
       (5) in the item relating to the eastern district of 
     Michigan by striking ``4'' and inserting ``6'',
       (6) in the item relating to the district of Nevada by 
     striking ``3'' and inserting ``4'',
       (7) in the item relating to the eastern district of North 
     Carolina by striking ``2'' and inserting ``3'',
       (8) in the item relating to the district of Puerto Rico by 
     striking ``2'' and inserting ``4'', and
       (9) in the item relating to the eastern district of 
     Virginia by striking ``5'' and inserting ``6''.

     SEC. 4. BANKRUPTCY FEES.

       (a) Amendments to Title 28 of the United States Code.--
     Section 1930(a)(6) of title 28 of the United States Code is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``(6) In'' and inserting ``(6)(A) Except as 
     provided in subparagraph (B), in'', and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(B) In any fiscal year, the quarterly fee payable for a 
     quarter in which disbursements equal or exceed $1,000,000 
     shall be 1 percent of such disbursements or $250,000, 
     whichever is less, unless the balance in the United States 
     Trustee System Fund as of September 30 immediately preceding 
     such fiscal year exceeds $200,000,000.''.
       (b) Deposits of Certain Fees for Fiscal Years 2018 Through 
     2022.--Notwithstanding section 589a(b) of title 28 of the 
     United States Code, for each of the fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022--
       (1) 97.5 percent of the fees collected under section 
     1930(a)(6) of such title shall be deposited as offsetting 
     collections to the appropriation ``United States Trustee 
     System Fund'', to remain available until expended, and
       (2) 2.5 percent of the fees collected under section 
     1930(a)(6) of such title shall be deposited in the general 
     fund of the Treasury.
       (c) Effective Date; Application Amendments.--
       (1) Effective date.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
     this section shall take effect on July 1, 2017, or on the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, whichever is later.
       (2) Application of amendments.--The amendments made by this 
     section shall apply to quarterly fees payable under section 
     1930(a)(6) of title 28 of the United States Code, as amended 
     by this section, for disbursements made in any calendar 
     quarter that begins on or after the effective date of the 
     amendments made by this section.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. Goodlatte) and the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Conyers) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Virginia.


                             General Leave

  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material on H.R. 2266, currently under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Virginia?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  We are here today to address an imposing threat to one of the 
foundational aspects of our economy, the national bankruptcy system. A 
well-functioning bankruptcy system provides relief to consumers, allows 
businesses to reorganize, preserves jobs, maximizes the value of 
assets, and ensures the proper allocation of resources. Our bankruptcy 
judiciary is the heartbeat that keeps this system moving. If that 
judiciary is strained and undermanned, that system will grind to a 
halt, eliminating the essential benefits it provides and sending 
repercussions throughout the economy.
  There are presently 29 temporary bankruptcy judgeships in the 
bankruptcy system with a lapse date of May 25. These temporary 
judgeships comprise more than 8 percent of the current bankruptcy 
judgeships nationwide. After May 25, 2017, these judgeships are at risk 
of being permanently lost, resulting in larger caseloads shared by 
fewer judges and causing further strain on our judiciary system.
  The Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017 converts 14 of the existing 
temporary judgeships to permanent status and creates 4 new permanent 
bankruptcy judgeships in districts with some of the highest caseloads 
in the country. In fact, since the enactment of the Bankruptcy Abuse 
Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005, when a majority of the 
temporary judgeships were created, these districts have seen weighted 
filings increase by more than 55 percent.
  This bill is based on a comprehensive study of judicial resource 
needs conducted by the Judicial Conference and is supported by the 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. The Conference has assured us 
that its request comes only after it has taken steps to maximize all 
other alternatives to reduce judicial workloads. Moreover, the 
Conference has demonstrated that, while a district may have a permanent 
judgeship, it will not be filled unless completely necessary.
  Importantly, this bill will not present any new costs for the 
taxpayers. The Bankruptcy Judgeship Act includes an increase in the 
quarterly U.S. Trustee fees for large chapter 11 debtors, excluding 
small businesses. This fee increase is directly tied to the balance of 
the United States Trustee System Fund and will only be applied when the 
balance of the fund falls below a $200 million threshold, thereby 
ensuring that the Office of the U.S. Trustee is properly funded.
  These temporary bankruptcy judgeships were first set to lapse in 
2010. Most have been extended for over 12 years, and some even longer. 
Despite this committee's efforts to address the issue, to date there 
have been only limited, short-term fixes. Additional permanent 
bankruptcy judgeships have not been authorized since 1992.
  The time has come for Congress to address bankruptcy judgeship needs 
more permanently. We need a bankruptcy system that has a sufficient 
number of judges to be able to manage the caseloads in a just, 
economical, and timely manner. The efficiency of this system is too 
important to our economy to risk. This bill helps ensure that we have 
such a system.
  I would like to thank Ranking Member Conyers for his efforts on this 
issue. I would also like to thank Regulatory Reform, Commercial and 
Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Marino and Ranking Member Cicilline 
for joining me as original cosponsors of the bill. I urge my colleagues 
to vote in favor of this important legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2266, the Bankruptcy 
Judgeship Act of 2017, which would make 14 temporary bankruptcy 
judgeships permanent and authorize four additional bankruptcy 
judgeships.
  I introduced this bipartisan legislation together with the support of 
Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte, along with Regulatory Reform,

[[Page H4247]]

Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Marino and Ranking 
Member Cicilline. H.R. 2266 warrants the support from my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle for several reasons.
  To begin with, this measure reflects the recommendations of the 
Judicial Conference of the United States with respect to the judicial 
resource needs of our Nation's bankruptcy courts. These recommendations 
are themselves based on a comprehensive survey of all judicial 
circuits.
  This analysis consists of two components. The first is premised on a 
case-weight formula devised by the Federal Judicial Center that is 
intended to provide a more accurate and useful measure of judicial 
workload than a mere count of case filings.
  The second component considers a broad array of other factors, 
including the nature of a court's caseload, filing trends, demographic 
considerations, geographic issues, and economic aspects, among other 
items.
  Taken together, the resulting analysis provides a reliable basis upon 
which Congress may assess the necessity of authorizing additional 
judgeships and extending temporary judgeships.
  In addition, H.R. 2266 addresses an immediate need. All of the 
temporary judgeships addressed in H.R. 2266 will lapse as of May 25, 
which is just a week away.
  Once a temporary judgeship lapses, any ensuing vacancy may not be 
filled, which presents a serious concern. As the Judicial Conference 
warns, these bankruptcy courts would ``face a serious and, in many 
cases, debilitating workload crisis if their temporary judgeships were 
to expire.''

  This is particularly true with respect to the Eastern District of 
Michigan, which has a weighted caseload well in excess of the minimum 
necessary to trigger additional judicial resources.
  Although Congress has previously extended temporary bankruptcy 
judgeships from time to time, some have also lapsed as a result of 
Congress' failure to timely act. So to avoid future lapses in judicial 
resources, my legislation converts 14 of these temporary judgeships to 
permanent status.
  Finally, I am pleased to report that H.R. 2266 pays for all of these 
judgeships without having to require consumer debtors to bear that 
expense. The cost of this legislation is offset by increasing the 
quarterly fees that the largest 10 percent of chapter 11 debtors pay to 
the United States Trustee System Fund, a proposal initially made by the 
Obama administration as part of the President's budget request for 
2017.
  Specifically, the fee increase would apply only to chapter 11 debtors 
that have quarterly disbursements in excess of $1 million and only 
during the period when the fund has less than $200 million.
  For all of these various reasons, I support this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to the 
gentlewoman from Delaware (Ms. Blunt Rochester).
  Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter 
from the Judicial Conference.

                                        Judicial Conference of the


                                                United States,

                                    Washington, DC, April 3, 2017.
     Hon. Paul D. Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: On behalf of the Judicial Conference of 
     the United States, I write to transmit the Conference's 
     bankruptcy judgeship recommendations and corresponding draft 
     legislation for the 115th Congress. The Conference recommends 
     to Congress that it authorize four additional permanent 
     bankruptcy judgeships and convert 14 existing temporary 
     bankruptcy judgeships to permanent status, as set forth in 
     the enclosures.
       The preservation of current on-board resources in these 
     courts is of great concern to the Conference. All 14 
     temporary bankruptcy judgeships included in the Conference's 
     recommendation have a lapse date of May 25, 2017. These 
     bankruptcy courts would face a serious and, in many cases, 
     debilitating workload crisis if these temporary judgeships 
     were to expire. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of 
     Delaware, for example, would be crippled as five of their six 
     authorized judgeships are temporary, all with the risk of 
     expiring in 2017.
       Although bankruptcy filings nationwide have been declining 
     in recent years, the districts included in these 
     recommendations generally have experienced an increase in 
     filings resulting in stress on existing judicial resources. 
     Indeed, since the enactment of the Bankruptcy Abuse 
     Prevention and Consumer Protection Act in 2005, Pub. L. No. 
     109-8--the last time additional judgeship resources were 
     authorized for most of the courts included in the 
     Conference's recommendation--these districts have seen 
     weighted filings increase by more than 55 percent.
       Section 152(b)(2) of title 28, United States Code, requires 
     the Judicial Conference to recommend to Congress the 
     authorization of additional bankruptcy judgeships. Following 
     a formal survey of all judicial circuits, the Conference 
     determines where additional resources are needed based upon 
     the circuit councils' requests and established criteria 
     including each court's workload and case filing statistics, 
     geographic needs, and pertinent additional factors. As part 
     of this survey, the Judicial Conference also considers 
     requests from the circuits to convert or extend existing 
     temporary bankruptcy judgeships based upon the district's 
     needs for stable judicial resources.
       The Judicial Conference respectfully requests that you give 
     your full consideration to the Judiciary's resource needs as 
     identified in this proposed legislation. Additional caseload 
     information concerning these recommendations is available 
     upon request.
       If we may be of further assistance to you in this or any 
     other matter, please do not hesitate to contact me or the 
     Office of Legislative Affairs, Administrative Office of the 
     U.S. Courts.
           Sincerely,
                                                    James C. Duff,
                                                        Secretary.

  Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Mr. Conyers and my 
colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee for their work on this 
important legislation and for bringing this bill to the floor today.
  An efficient bankruptcy system is important to the smooth functioning 
of our economy. The preservation and addition of these positions will 
add needed certainty to our legal system.
  As the Judicial Conference of the United States highlighted in their 
report to Congress, these resources will benefit individuals and 
corporations, and are necessary to keep this system working. I am proud 
of the work that the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware 
does to protect jobs, creditors, and economic engines in our 
communities across the country.
  This legislation is a perfect example of Congress hearing the needs 
of independent experts in the judiciary and acting in a bipartisan, 
collaborative manner to address a looming problem.
  I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on other 
pressing problems for our constituents in such collaborative ways. I 
urge all of my colleagues to support the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 
2017.

                              {time}  1415

  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, in closing, I am pleased to note that H.R. 2266 is 
supported by the American Bar Association, the Federal Bar Association, 
the American College of Bankruptcy, and the National Conference of 
Bankruptcy Judges.
  I want to also express appreciation to our Judiciary chairman, Mr. 
Goodlatte, to Chairman Marino and Ranking Member Cicilline, as well as 
their staffs, for their cooperative efforts in working with me on this 
bipartisan legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, given the time-sensitive nature of the temporary 
judgeships addressed by H.R. 2266 and the immediate need for additional 
bankruptcy judgeships to be authorized, it is my hope that our 
colleagues in the Senate will expeditiously consider this important 
legislation. I urge all of the Members here to support this measure.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, permanent bankruptcy judgeships have not been authorized 
since 1992. Over the past 25 years, we have limited our protection of 
the bankruptcy system to short-term temporary fixes. A well-functioning 
bankruptcy system, however, is too important to our economy to risk. 
Now is the time for Congress to address bankruptcy judgeship needs more 
permanently.
  The Bankruptcy Judgeship Act is a measured, long-term solution 
carefully crafted and based on the well-developed recommendation of the 
Administrative Office of the Courts. Not only does it ensure the 
viability of our bankruptcy

[[Page H4248]]

system, but it also addresses the funding concerns of the Office of the 
United States Trustee.
  This bill is a bipartisan measure that enjoys broad support from 
outside groups, including the American Bar Association, the Federal Bar 
Association, the National Conference of Bankruptcy Judges, and the 
American College of Bankruptcy. I urge my colleagues to vote in favor 
of this important legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2266, the 
``Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017,'' which authorizes the 
establishment of four additional permanent bankruptcy judgeships and 
converts 14 temporary bankruptcy judgeships to permanent status.
  I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this legislation, which 
is a necessary response to alleviate the strain on certain bankruptcy 
courts that have experienced a significant increase in bankruptcy 
filings over the past decade or more.
  Importantly, this legislation adopts the recommendations of the 
Judicial Conference of the United States, the national policymaking 
body of the federal courts, and does not impose additional fees on 
ordinary consumer debtors or small businesses.
  As the Conference notes in support of this measure, while bankruptcy 
filings have decreased nationwide, the bankruptcy courts that would 
receive permanent or new judgeships under this legislation ``have seen 
weighted filings increase by more than 55 percent.''
  Furthermore, without this legislation, all 14 temporary judgeships 
covered by this bill will lapse later this month on May 25.
  Allowing a lapse in these judgeships would have potentially crippling 
effects on the bankruptcy system.
  For example, five of the six authorized judgeships of the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Court of the District of Delaware--the preferred venue for 
corporate reorganization under Chapter 11--are temporary.
  Accordingly, I urge my colleagues to support this important 
legislation.
  I thank Ranking Member Conyers, the bill's sponsor, for his 
leadership on this bill, along with Judiciary Committee Chairman 
Goodlatte and Subcommittee Chairman Marino for their support.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2266, 
the ``Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017.''
  H.R. 2266, the ``Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017,'' would authorize 
four additional permanent bankruptcy judgeships and convert 14 
temporary bankruptcy judgeships to permanent status based on the most 
recent recommendation of the Judicial Conference of the United States.
  H.R. 2266 was introduced on May 1, 2017 by Ranking Member John 
Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) together with Chairman Bob Goodlatte and 
Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Chair 
Tom Marino (R-PA) and Ranking Member David Cicilline (D-RI) as original 
cosponsors.
  This bipartisan legislation is time-sensitive as the temporary 
judgeships are due to expire on May 25, 2017. No hearing has been held 
on this legislation.
  A bankruptcy judge may hear and determine all cases arising under the 
Bankruptcy Code and certain related proceedings. A district court, 
however, may withdraw--in whole or in part--any case or proceeding 
referred to a bankruptcy judge. If designated by the district to 
exercise such authority, a bankruptcy judge may conduct a jury trial on 
consent of all the parties.
  Currently pending before Congress is H.R. 244, the ``Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2017,'' which extends for one year the temporary 
judgeships for the District of Delaware (two judgeships), the Southern 
District of Florida (two judgeships); the Eastern District of Michigan; 
the District of Puerto Rico; and the Eastern District of Virginia.
  In analyzing bankruptcy judgeship needs, the Judicial Conference 
employs, as a first step, a case weight formula devised by the Federal 
Judicial Center that is intended to provide a more accurate and useful 
measure of judicial workload than a mere count of filings does.
  Pursuant to Conference policy, ``if a district's annual weighted 
caseload per authorized judgeship is 1,500 weighted filings or more, 
the district will receive consideration for an additional judgeship.''
  With respect to the Conference's current request for additional 
bankruptcy judgeships, the weighted case filings have increased by more 
than 55 percent for most of these districts since the last time 
additional judgeships were authorized in 2005, according to the 
Conference.
  In addition, all 14 of the temporary bankruptcy judgeships that the 
bill converts to permanent status are set to lapse as of May 25, 2017.
  To offset the cost of this legislation, H.R. 2266 increases the 
quarterly fee payable that chapter 11 debtors pay to the United States 
Trustee System Fund, but only with respect to debtors that have 
quarterly disbursements in excess of $1 million dollars during the 
period when the Fund has less than $200 million.
  This provision is substantively identical to a legislative proposal 
made by the prior Administration as represented in President Barack 
Obama's budget request for 2017.
  Taken together, the resulting analysis provides a reliable basis upon 
which Congress may assess the necessity of authorizing additional 
judgeships and extending temporary judgeships.
  For all of these reasons, I support this legislation.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Goodlatte) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2266, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



