

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3145-S3146]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself and Mr. Hoeven):
       S. 1210. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to reduce tax rates across the board; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 1211. A bill to require the Secretary of the Army, 
     acting through the Chief of Engineers, to undertake 
     remediation oversight of the West Lake Landfill located in 
     Bridgeton, Missouri; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Markey, and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 1212. A bill to provide family members of an individual 
     who they fear is a danger to himself, herself, or others, and 
     law enforcement, with new tools to prevent gun violence; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 1213. A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation 
     to post a copy of the most recent response plan for each 
     onshore oil pipeline on a publicly accessible website; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1214. A bill to amend the Toxic Substances Control Act 
     to clarify the jurisdiction of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency with respect to certain sporting good articles, and to 
     exempt those articles from a definition under that Act; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Reed):
       S. 1215. A bill to amend part E of title IV of the Social 
     Security Act to allow States that provide foster care for 
     children up to age 21 to serve former foster youths through 
     age 23 under the John H. Chafee Foster Care Independence 
     Program; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Cruz, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Ms. Collins, and Mr. Coons):
       S. 1216. A bill to clarify that an authorization to use 
     military force, a declaration of war, or any similar 
     authority shall not authorize the detention without charge or 
     trial of a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United 
     States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Corker, 
             Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Hatch, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Perdue, Mr. 
             Risch, Mr. Roberts, Mr.

[[Page S3146]]

             Scott, Mr. Wicker, and Mr. Boozman):
       S. 1217. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to provide for appropriate designation of collective 
     bargaining units; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mr. Sullivan, and Ms. 
             Harris):
       S. 1218. A bill to promote Federal employment for veterans, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 1219. A bill to provide for stability of title to 
     certain land in the State of Louisiana, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Kaine, 
             Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. Murkowski, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1220. A bill to exempt children of certain Filipino 
     World War II veterans from the numerical limitations on 
     immigrant visas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 1221. A bill to counter the influence of the Russian 
     Federation in Europe and Eurasia, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 1222. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to convey certain land to La Paz County, Arizona, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1223. A bill to repeal the Klamath Tribe Judgment Fund 
     Act; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. KAINE:
       S. 1224. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to carry out a Community Resilience Grant 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Alexander, Ms. 
             Stabenow, and Mr. Portman):
       S. 1225. A bill to support research, development, and other 
     activities to develop innovative vehicle technologies, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 1226. A bill to amend the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 to 
     equalize liability and financial assurance requirements for 
     onshore pipeline facilities that could discharge oil into the 
     Great Lakes system with such requirements for offshore 
     pipelines, to authorize the Secretary of Transportation to 
     issue an emergency order directing pipeline owners to comply 
     with existing pipeline operating agreements or acquire 
     sufficient resources to appropriately respond to possible oil 
     spill incidents, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, and Ms. 
             Warren):
       S. 1227. A bill to amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for 12-month continuous enrollment 
     under Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 1228. A bill to require a National Diplomacy and 
     Development Strategy; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.

                          ____________________



