

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6144-H6146]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BUDD (for himself, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. Pearce):
       H.R. 3321. A bill to require the establishment of a 
     national strategy for combating the financing of terrorism 
     and related financial crimes, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 3322. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require that States give preference in allocating 
     low-income housing credit dollar amounts to projects which 
     are committed to providing non-smoking buildings; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Cohen, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Lynch, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Moore, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Rush, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Vela, and Mr. 
             Yoho):
       H.R. 3323. A bill to amend section 9A of the Richard B. 
     Russell National School Lunch Act to require that local 
     school wellness policies include a requirement that students 
     receive 50 hours of school nutrition education per school 
     year; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Larsen of Washington, and 
             Mr. Brady of Texas):
       H.R. 3324. A bill to include New Zealand in the list of 
     foreign states whose nationals are eligible for admission 
     into the United States as E-1 and E-2 nonimmigrants if United 
     States nationals are treated similarly by the Government of 
     New Zealand; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BARTON (for himself, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Gene Green of Texas, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Reichert, and Ms. 
             Herrera Beutler):
       H.R. 3325. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with the option of providing 
     coordinated care for children with complex medical conditions 
     through a health home, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BARR:
       H.R. 3326. A bill to increase accountability, combat 
     corruption, and strengthen management effectiveness at the 
     World Bank; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Mr. Young 
             of Alaska, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Marshall):
       H.R. 3327. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to 
     declassify certain documents related to incidents in which 
     members of the Armed Forces were exposed to toxic substances; 
     to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and Mr. Sires):
       H.R. 3328. A bill to require a study regarding security 
     measures and equipment at Cuba's airports, require the 
     standardization of Federal Air Marshal Service agreements, 
     require efforts to raise international aviation security 
     standards, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Foreign Affairs, and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 3329. A bill to amend the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose additional 
     sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Financial Services, and the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Allen, Mr. 
             Chabot, Mr. Cole, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Babin, and 
             Mr. Blum):
       H.R. 3330. A bill to amend title III of the Social Security 
     Act to permit States to conduct substance abuse risk 
     assessments and targeted drug testing as a condition for the 
     receipt of unemployment benefits, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 3331. A bill to amend title XI of the Social Security 
     Act to promote testing of incentive payments for behavioral 
     health providers for adoption and use of certified electronic 
     health record technology; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself, Mr. Yoder, Mr. 
             Estes of Kansas, and Mr. Marshall):
       H.R. 3332. A bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Bob Dole, in recognition for his service to the nation as a 
     soldier, legislator, and statesman; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Sessions, and Mr. Young 
             of Alaska):
       H.R. 3333. A bill to provide for the orderly disposal of 
     certain Federal lands, to benefit education and other 
     purposes through the sales of such lands, to consolidate 
     Federal lands to improve management, to provide for the 
     acquisition of lands for recreational and other 
     opportunities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Conyers, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Lee, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Rush, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Veasey, and 
             Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 3334. A bill to posthumously award a Congressional 
     gold medal to Maya Angelou in recognition of her achievements 
     and contributions to American culture and the civil rights 
     movement; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 3335. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program to enter into contracts 
     with qualified nonprofit organizations to provide service 
     dogs to eligible veterans with a mental health mobility 
     disorder related to post-traumatic stress or traumatic brain 
     injury, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Mr. 
             Evans):
       H.R. 3336. A bill to provide for youth jobs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Ms. Speier, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Ms. Pingree, Mr. Jones, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Mr. Rush, and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 3337. A bill to ban meat and poultry products 
     processed in China from school lunches, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Larsen 
             of Washington, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Payne, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Schiff, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Engel, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Rush, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Cicilline, and Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California):
       H.R. 3338. A bill to require that health plans provide 
     coverage for a minimum hospital stay for mastectomies, 
     lumpectomies, and lymph node dissection for the treatment of 
     breast cancer and coverage for secondary consultations; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, and Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. Pingree, 
             Mr. Sherman, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Nolan):
       H.R. 3339. A bill to amend the Bipartisan Congressional 
     Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 to require 
     the publication

[[Page H6145]]

     of certain texts for trade agreements negotiated under that 
     Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. 
             Levin, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H.R. 3340. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide taxpayer protection and assistance, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD:
       H.R. 3341. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     regulate the use of cell-site simulators, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Roskam, and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 3342. A bill to impose sanctions on foreign persons 
     that are responsible for gross violations of internationally 
     recognized human rights by reason of the use by Hizballah of 
     civilians as human shields, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. KIHUEN:
       H.R. 3343. A bill to amend the Uniformed and Overseas 
     Citizens Absentee Voting Act to require States upon request 
     to provide absent uniformed services voters and overseas 
     voters who receive absentee ballots in an election for 
     Federal office held in the State with absentee ballots for 
     all subsequent elections for Federal office held in the State 
     through the next regularly scheduled general election for 
     Federal office, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, and Ms. 
             Stefanik):
       H.R. 3344. A bill to amend the STEM Education Act of 2015 
     to require the National Science Foundation to promote the 
     integration of art and design in STEM education, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Adams, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Correa, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Soto, and Mr. 
             Veasey):
       H.R. 3345. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to establish a small business start-up tax credit for 
     veterans creating businesses in underserved communities; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
       H.R. 3346. A bill to provide for the refinancing and 
     recalculation of certain Federal student loans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Rush, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Welch, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. Dingell, and Mrs. 
             Napolitano):
       H.R. 3347. A bill to establish an additional fund in the 
     Treasury to ensure consumers do not lose access to over-the-
     air broadcast television as a result of the reorganization of 
     broadcast television spectrum, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Marshall, and Mr. Rothfus):
       H.R. 3348. A bill to expand the tropical disease product 
     priority review voucher program to encourage treatments for 
     the Middle East respiratory syndrome; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 3349. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a tax incentive for the installation and 
     maintenance of mechanical insulation property; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Ms. 
             DelBene, and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 3350. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     establish a database of nondramatic musical works and sound 
     recordings to help entities that wish to publicly perform 
     such works and recordings to identify and compensate the 
     owners of rights in such works and recordings, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself and Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 3351. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide for the admission of certain health care 
     workers as immigrants, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr. Vargas, and Ms. Castor 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 3352. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide that an applicant for citizenship who served 
     honorably in the Armed Forces of the United States is not 
     automatically barred from becoming a citizen of the United 
     States for having committed certain crimes, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. King 
             of New York, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Lucas, Mr. 
             McHenry, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Posey, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. 
             Huizenga, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. 
             Ross, Mr. Pittenger, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Barr, Mr. 
             Messer, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Williams, Mr. Poliquin, Mrs. 
             Love, Mr. Hill, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Trott, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Budd, Mr. Kustoff of 
             Tennessee, Ms. Tenney, and Mr. Hollingsworth):
       H.J. Res. 111. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to ``Arbitration Agreements''; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. PERRY:
       H.J. Res. 112. A joint resolution to authorize the use of 
     United States Armed Forces against organizations that support 
     Islamist extremism, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Keating, 
             Ms. Lee, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Davis of California, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Welch, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Lynch, and Mr. Bera):
       H.J. Res. 113. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States relating to the 
     authority of Congress and the States to regulate 
     contributions and expenditures in political campaigns and to 
     enact public financing systems for such campaigns; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Mr. Posey, Mr. Nunes, Mrs. Mimi Walters of 
             California, Mr. Cook, Mr. Knight, Mr. Rohrabacher, 
             Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, 
             Mr. Upton, Mr. Burgess, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             Perry, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Cuellar, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Collins of New York, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Mr. Flores, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Mast, Mr. 
             Poliquin, Mr. Dunn, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
             Babin, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Chabot, and 
             Mr. DesJarlais):
       H. Con. Res. 70. Concurrent resolution recognizing and 
     commending the leadership, patriotism, and contributions of 
     veterans service organizations and volunteers involved for 
     their commitment and sacrifice to ensure veterans are laid to 
     rest with the honor and ceremony they earned through selfless 
     service to the people of the United States in the Armed 
     Forces; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Mr. Posey, Mr. Nunes, Mrs. Mimi Walters of 
             California, Mr. Cook, Mr. Knight, Mr. Rohrabacher, 
             Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, 
             Mr. Upton, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Perry, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Lamborn, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Cuellar, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Collins of New York, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Mr. Flores, Mr. Mast, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             Poliquin, Mr. Dunn, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
             Babin, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Chabot, and 
             Mr. DesJarlais):
       H. Res. 462. A resolution recognizing the patriotism and 
     contributions of veterans service organizations; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Ms. 
             Lee, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Payne, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Ms. Adams, and Mr. McGovern):
       H. Res. 463. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. Schiff, and Mr. 
             Khanna):
       H. Res. 464. A resolution designating the week of July 17 
     through July 21, 2017, as ``National Ectodermal Dysplasias 
     Week'' and

[[Page H6146]]

     supporting the goals and ideals of National Ectodermal 
     Dysplasias Week to raise awareness and understanding of 
     ectodermal dysplasias; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H. Res. 465. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that regular order should be restored in 
     the House and Senate; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself and Mrs. Lowey):
       H. Res. 466. A resolution supporting the role of the United 
     States in promoting children's access to quality education in 
     the poorest countries through the Global Partnership for 
     Education; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. THOMAS J. ROONEY of Florida:
       H. Res. 467. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the United Nations Security Council 
     should immediately impose an arms embargo against the 
     Government of South Sudan and all other parties to 
     hostilities in South Sudan; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.

                          ____________________



