

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3062-S3063]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        WELCOMING OUR HONORABLE VETERANS TO THE NATION'S CAPITOL

  Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today I am incredibly honored to rise and 
recognize a group of 25 heroic veterans who have traveled from West 
Virginia to visit our Nation's Capital as part of the eighth Always 
Free Honor Flight. On behalf of our State and Nation, it is a true 
privilege to recognize them for their courageous service and 
unparalleled sacrifice as they tour the memorials that have been built 
in their honor.
  With one of our country's highest per capita rates of military 
servicemembers and veterans, West Virginia is undoubtedly one of our 
Nation's most patriotic States. According to the Department of Defense, 
West Virginia had the highest casualty rate in the Nation during the 
Vietnam war, and I am so proud that the Honor Flight will allow these 
West Virginia veterans to pay homage to their brethren at the Vietnam 
Wall. Throughout our State's history, West Virginians have demonstrated 
selflessness and courage time and again in making tremendous sacrifices 
to defend our freedoms and to keep our homeland safe. As these veterans 
tour the monuments made in their honor, I offer my sincerest thanks to 
them on behalf of our Nation for their service.
  The veterans joining us in Washington range in age from 62 to 94 and 
hail from the coalfields of West Virginia and Virginia. These patriots 
come from seven West Virginia coal mining counties and three Virginia 
counties. Of the Honor Flight veterans attending, two served in World 
War II, one served in the Korean war, two served in both the Korean and 
Vietnam wars, 18 served in the Vietnam war, and two Veterans served 
stateside. They have participated in decisive overseas battles and won 
a myriad of accolades for their accomplishments in uniform.
  I would especially like to recognize our World War II veterans who 
will be on this Honor Flight for the second time. Ninety-four-year-old 
former SN William ``Ray'' Calvin Sexton from Tazewell joined the Navy 
in Bramwell, WV, in 1943 and was a gunner stationed in Panama and the 
Galapagos Islands. We will also be joined by Machinist Mate 3rd Class 
Marion Grey Noel who joined the Navy in the 1940s and bravely fought in 
the battles of Iwo Jima and Okinawa.
  These men represent our Nation's Greatest Generation, and their 
sacrifices and valor embody American patriotism. They fought in such a 
pivotal war, in an era that threatened our existence as a nation. 
Unfortunately, as the years go by, we are losing so many of our World 
War II veterans, and we must show them our utmost gratitude each and 
every day.
  As I mentioned, we will also be joined by veterans of the Korean and 
Vietnam wars. These men and women served courageously in a variety of 
ways, working both at home and abroad. They engaged in combat all over 
the world. They were pilots, helicopter gunners, and radio operators. 
One of these veterans is MSgt Reese Williamson Moore who joined the Air 
Force in 1951 in Bluefield, WV. He was first stationed in Iwo Jima as 
part of the Japan Occupation Forces in 1952. Then he moved to the Royal 
Thai Air Base Nam Phongin in the Kingdom of Thailand. He served during 
a pivotal time following World War II and went on to serve in the 
Vietnam war.
  We will also be joined by Iaeger, WV, native Sergeant Marion 
``Mario'' E. Deskins, who joined the Air Force in 1968 in Beckley, WV. 
He served with the 15th Aerial Port Squadron at Danang, where he 
maintained records on unit personnel and transported documentation to 
the headquarters of the 7th Air Force in Saigon via C-130 Hercules 
airplanes. Sergeant Deskins was awarded the Air Force Commendation 
Medal for his service in Vietnam.
  Another Vietnam veteran participating in this week's Honor Flight is 
Sergeant Marshal G. Mann from Princeton, WV. Sergeant Mann served in 
combat as an aircraft loadmaster, bravely preparing and air lifting 
urgently needed ammunition to combat troops fighting in the Republic of 
Vietnam. For his service and extraordinary achievement, Sergeant Mann 
received the Distinguished Flying Cross.
  This week's Honor Flight and the continued support of our veterans 
would not be possible without the dedication of so many volunteers and 
caregivers. I would like to thank the five JROTC Cadets from Montcalm, 
Bluefield, Pikeview, and Princeton High Schools, as well as the 
military spouses serving as the guardians on this year's Honor Flight. 
The care and love these Patriots provide for our veterans is invaluable 
and deeply appreciated.
  I also commend those in the Always Free Honor Flight network for 
their dedication to providing our veterans with such a unique and 
meaningful experience. Without the diligence and passion of Dreama 
Denver, president of Always Free Honor Flight network and owner of 
Princeton, WV, Little Buddy Radio, as well as Pam Coulbourne, the 
coordinator of these flights, many of our veterans would never have the 
opportunity to travel to Washington and pay homage to the men and women 
they fought beside. Dreama and Pam launched the Always Free Honor 
Flight in 2012, and every year, they continue to make this dream a 
reality for many of our West Virginia veterans.
  I would also like to recognize SFC Paul Dorsey, vice president of 
Always Free Honor Flight and official photographer Steve Coleman, who 
have done a tremendous job of ensuring that our veterans receive the 
recognition they deserve. Dreama, Pam, and Steve have also dedicated 
themselves to the Denver Foundation, serving as incredible examples of 
how individuals can give back to their communities.
  This week, as we celebrate these incredible veterans and their 
answering our Nation's call of duty, we must remember that the men and 
women who have given so much to ensure America's safety deserve the 
utmost care and support upon their return home. We must continue to 
fight for a Department of Veterans Affairs that provides our veterans 
with the services they very much need and deserve.
  I am filled with pride every time I meet the patriots who have served 
our country, and I am so pleased to welcome West Virginia's most 
courageous veterans, who are all heroes, to Washington, DC. I encourage 
all of my colleagues to join me in saluting them. They truly inspire us 
all as we are reminded of their selfless service. It is because of 
their bravery that all Americans enjoy the greatest liberties and 
freedoms in the world.
  God bless our many servicemembers and veterans, the great State of 
West Virginia, and the United States of America.
  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and honor the 
sacrifice of West Virginia's veterans and to welcome them to Washington 
DC, as a part of the Always Free Honor Flight. West Virginia has a 
proud tradition of military service, and I am privileged to be able to 
recognize these brave men and women who put their lives on the line to 
preserve our freedoms during our Nation's most critical hours of need.
  The Always Free Honor Flight program, run by the Denver Foundation, 
is dedicated to bringing our veterans to Washington, DC, to thank them 
for their bravery and selflessness. As a daughter of a World War II 
veteran, this is something that is very close to my heart, and I am so 
thankful for the folks at Always Free Honor Flight who have dedicated 
their time to making sure our veterans feel our immense gratitude and 
pride. This year, we have the privilege of being joined by 25 veterans, 
including veterans from World War II, Korea, and Vietnam.
  These courageous individuals embody the very best of our Nation's 
values and have endeavored, through unimaginable hardship and danger, 
to ensure that all Americans may continue to live in the freedom and 
safety that we all cherish. Their courage, through some of the greatest 
conflicts of the 20th century, will not go unnoticed, and we must 
strive to show our appreciation every day.
  On this Always Free Honor Flight, we will be joined by two World War 
II veterans: Storekeeper Second Class William ``Ray'' Calvin Sexton, 
USN, Tazewell, VA; and Motor Machinist's Mate Third Class Marion Grey 
Noel, USN, Roanoke, VA.
  In addition to our World War II veterans, we will also be joined by 
Korean

[[Page S3063]]

war veteran Gerald Marreese Richmond, North Tazewell, VA; and two 
veterans who served in both the Korean and Vietnam wars: Johnie Lewis 
Gordon, Sr., USA, Princeton, WV; and MSgt Reese Williamson Moore, USAF, 
Bluefield, WV.
  The Vietnam veterans participating are Samuel ``Sam'' J. Connor, USN, 
Princeton, WV; CPL William ``Bill'' Cox, USA, Bluefield, WV; Sergeant 
Marion ``Mario'' E. Deskins, USAF, Iaeger, WV; CPL Donald R. Dinger, 
USMC, Bluefield, WV; SGT James ``Jim'' W. England, USA, Bluefield, VA; 
Jackie W. Estep, USMC, Yukon, WV; SPC Carl A. Lane, USA, Pineville, WV; 
Sergeant Marshal G. Mann, USAF, Princeton, WV; SGT Owen C. Neff, USA, 
Summersville, WV; PO3 Donald ``Donnie'' W. Noel, USN, Salem, VA; CPL 
Raymond C. Palmer, USA, Mabscott, WV; SGT Ronald Pennington, USA, 
Princeton, WV; PFC Jackson Phillip Thompson, USA, Bluefield, WV; SPC 
Larry Malone Saunders, USA, Madison, WV; PO1 Alan Brett Sexton, USN, 
Princeton, WV; SPC James Buck Tunnell, USA, Bandy, VA; CPL Ricky D. 
Williams, USMC, Beckley, WV; and CPT Jerry Sheffield, USA, Lavelette, 
WV.
  Other veterans include PFC Willis Lee Helmandollar, USA, Rocky Gap, 
VA; and SrA Grover C. White, Jr., USAF, Princeton, WV.
  This year, we are also proud of the ROTC cadets serving as escorts 
for our veterans, including Jacob Aaron Krabbe, Montcalm High School, 
Princeton, WV; Miaha Thompson, Montcalm High School, Rock, WV; and 
Lamont Devon Johnson, Bluefield High School, Bluefield, WV.
  These young cadets are proof of West Virginia's continuing tradition 
of military service and are the next generation of brave men and women 
that serve our country with bravery and pride.
  A great debt of gratitude is also owed to Dreama Denver, president of 
the Denver Foundation and Little Buddy Radio. These nonprofit 
organizations, which were founded by Dreama and her husband, Bob 
Denver, established the Always Free Honor Flight Network in West 
Virginia.
  I am so proud of the service and sense of duty that defines West 
Virginians and, indeed, all Americans. We all benefit from their 
selflessness and courage, and one of the most sacred tasks we hold is 
properly honoring the dedication of our veterans. In bringing them 
together with the powerful monuments that recognize their sacrifice, we 
can express our unyielding gratitude while demonstrating our lasting 
commitment to preserving their memory. One of the greatest honors of 
serving in the U.S. Senate is representing citizens who have given so 
much to their country. I take seriously the duty of ensuring that their 
sacrifice is honored with the same steadfast conviction with which they 
defended the rights and freedoms of every American. Today I ask my 
colleagues to join me in welcoming and thanking these exceptional West 
Virginia veterans.

                          ____________________



