

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4830-H4831]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     J. BENNETT JOHNSTON WATERWAY HYDROPOWER EXTENSION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 2457) to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of 
certain hydroelectric projects, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2457

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``J. Bennett Johnston Waterway 
     Hydropower Extension Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. EXTENSION.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the time period specified 
     in section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that 
     would otherwise apply to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
     project numbers 12756, 12757, and 12758, the Commission may, 
     at the request of the licensee for the applicable project, 
     and after reasonable notice, in accordance with the good 
     faith, due diligence, and public interest requirements of 
     that section and the Commission's procedures under that 
     section, extend the time period during which such licensee is 
     required to commence the construction of its applicable 
     project for up to 3 consecutive 2-year periods from the date 
     of the expiration of any extension issued by the Commission 
     under that section for such project.
       (b) Obligation for Payment of Annual Charges.--Any 
     obligation of a licensee for a project described in 
     subsection (a) for the payment of annual charges under 
     section 10(e) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 803(e)) 
     shall commence when the construction of the project 
     commences.
       (c) Reinstatement of License; Effective Date for 
     Extension.--
       (1) Reinstatement.--If the time period required for 
     commencement of construction of a project described in 
     subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, the Commission may reinstate the license for 
     such project, effective as of the date of the expiration of 
     the license.
       (2) Effective date for extension.--If the Commission 
     reinstates a license under paragraph (1) for a project, the 
     first extension authorized under subsection (a) with respect 
     to such project shall take effect on the effective date of 
     such reinstatement under paragraph (1).

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Upton) and the gentlewoman from Colorado (Ms. DeGette) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.


                             GENERAL LEAVE

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members have 
5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to include 
any extraneous material in the Record on the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Michigan?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2457, as amended. This bill 
was introduced by Mr. Johnson from Louisiana and was reported by 
unanimous consent from the Energy and Commerce Committee. The bill, 
H.R. 2457, authorizes the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, FERC, 
to extend the time period during which a licensee is required to 
commence the construction of Commission project numbers 12756, 12757, 
and 12758 for up to three consecutive 2-year periods.
  Mr. Speaker, I would encourage all Members to join me and support 
passage of this bill, as amended.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

[[Page H4831]]

  Mr. Speaker, this is the last bill in our cohort of six extension 
bills that we are considering today, which I hope Mr. Peters' bill will 
absolve us from having to do in the future.
  This bill, the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway Hydropower Extension Act 
of 2017 was introduced by the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. Johnson) on 
May 16, 2017. It would extend the time period during which the licensee 
is required to commence the construction of the project for up to three 
consecutive 2-year periods from the date of expiration of the original 
extension.
  Additionally, the legislation defers the obligation on the licensee 
to pay any annual charges required under section 10(e) of the Federal 
Power Act until the project actually commences construction.
  Finally, the legislation allows for the prospective reinstatement of 
the license should that license expire prior to the legislation's date 
of enactment.
  I just have to add a few words to what Mr. Peters said earlier. 
Hydropower is so important. It is such an important renewable energy 
source in this country. We need to do everything we can on a bipartisan 
basis to make sure that we expedite these dams, that we really work 
together to get hydropower, even more important in our energy 
portfolio.
  Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will favorably consider this 
legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I echo the words from my good friend from 
Colorado. Hydro is an important renewable energy source, and it is one 
that supports all of the above. It is an increasing force across the 
country so that is why these bills are so important, and it also shows 
why they are so bipartisan.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support the bill, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Upton) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2457, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



