

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4220-H4222]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. STEWART:
       H.R. 2423. A bill to implement certain measures relating to 
     management of Washington County, Utah, required by Public Law 
     111-11; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. STEWART:
       H.R. 2424. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     to issue new resource management plans applicable to the 
     Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area and the Red Cliffs 
     National Conservation Area and a new amendment to the St. 
     George Field Office Resource Management Plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN:
       H.R. 2425. A bill to support the establishment and 
     improvement of communications sites on or adjacent to Federal 
     lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior 
     or the Secretary of Agriculture through the retention and use 
     of rental fees associated with such sites, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 2426. A bill to require the disclosure of beneficial 
     ownership by a foreign person of high-security space leased 
     to accommodate a Federal agency, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. DEMINGS:
       H.R. 2427. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002, to direct the Assistant Secretary for State and Local 
     Law Enforcement to produce and disseminate an annual catalog 
     on Department of Homeland Security training, publications, 
     programs, and services for State, local, and tribal law 
     enforcement agencies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr.

[[Page H4221]]

             Norcross, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Soto, Mr. Sablan, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Espaillat, 
             Mr. Visclosky, and Mr. Pocan):
       H.R. 2428. A bill to amend the Occupational Safety and 
     Health Act of 1970 to clarify when the time period for the 
     issuance of citations under such Act begins and to require a 
     rule to clarify that an employer's duty to make and maintain 
     accurate records of work-related injuries and illnesses is an 
     ongoing obligation; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR (for himself, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico, Mr. Duffy, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 2429. A bill to support businesses in Puerto Rico, 
     improve health funding for Puerto Rico, and promote security 
     in Puerto Rico, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Small Business, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Financial Services, Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, the 
     Judiciary, Oversight and Government Reform, Education and the 
     Workforce, and Appropriations, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALDEN (for himself, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Burgess, 
             and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H.R. 2430. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to revise and extend the user-fee programs for 
     prescription drugs, medical devices, generic drugs, and 
     biosimilar biological products, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LABRADOR (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Collins of Georgia, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Carter of 
             Texas, and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 2431. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to improve immigration law enforcement within the 
     interior of the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Foreign Affairs, and Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Mr. Roskam, Mrs. Walorski, 
             Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Latta, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Jody B. Hice 
             of Georgia, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. Barletta, Mr. 
             Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Marino, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Faso, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Bishop of 
             Michigan, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Calvert, 
             Mr. Emmer, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Bucshon, and Mr. 
             Walberg):
       H.R. 2432. A bill to amend the Volunteer Organization 
     Protection Act of 1997, to provide for liability protection 
     for organizations or entities; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Miss RICE of New York:
       H.R. 2433. A bill to direct the Under Secretary of Homeland 
     Security for Intelligence and Analysis to develop and 
     disseminate a threat assessment regarding terrorist use of 
     virtual currency; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr. Polis, Mr. Garrett, 
             Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Panetta, and Mr. 
             Dunn):
       H.R. 2434. A bill to establish a postsecondary student data 
     system; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself and Mr. Massie):
       H.R. 2435. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prevent unjust and irrational criminal punishments; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Mr. Newhouse, and Mr. 
             Panetta):
       H.R. 2436. A bill to amend the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 to reauthorize the 
     organic agriculture research and extension initiative; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Smith of Texas, 
             Mr. Stivers, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. McCaul, and 
             Mr. Williams):
       H.R. 2437. A bill to protect law enforcement officers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself, Mr. LaMalfa, and Mr. 
             McKinley):
       H.R. 2438. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to prohibit 
     any regulation under such Act concerning the emissions of 
     carbon dioxide from a fossil fuel-fired electric generating 
     unit from taking effect until the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency makes certain certifications, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Doggett, Mr. Cummings, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 2439. A bill to require reporting regarding certain 
     drug price increases, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RASKIN (for himself and Ms. Jayapal):
       H.R. 2440. A bill to require the President to report to the 
     Treasury and make publicly available past business 
     transactions with foreign countries exceeding $10,000 and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 2441. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to include an additional permissible 
     use of amounts provided as grants under the Byrne JAG 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 2442. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require an annual report on the Office for State and 
     Local Law Enforcement; to the Committee on Homeland Security, 
     and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BARLETTA (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2443. A bill to require an inventory of all facilities 
     certified by the Department of Homeland Security to host 
     infrastructure or systems classified above the Secret level, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 2444. A bill to create an alternative prosecutor for 
     certain Federal offenses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 2445. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for a prior authorization process 
     under the Medicare program for certain high cost durable 
     medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
       H.R. 2446. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to provide that the Director of the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation may only be removed for 
     cause, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Ms. Lee, and Mr. 
             Ellison):
       H.R. 2447. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     provide loans and grants for solar installations in low-
     income and underserved areas; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr. MacArthur):
       H.R. 2448. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     Commission on the Advancement of Social Enterprise, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 2449. A bill to repeal the Congressional Review Act, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Crowley, 
             Mr. Smith of Missouri, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Long, Mr. Correa, Mr. Collins of New 
             York, and Ms. Meng):
       H.R. 2450. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the special expensing rules for certain film, 
     television, and live theatrical productions; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois):
       H.R. 2451. A bill to improve the structure of the Federal 
     Pell Grant program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself, Ms. McSally, 
             Mr. Walz, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Takano, Mrs. Radewagen, 
             Ms. Brownley of California, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Lance, 
             Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Miss Rice 
             of New York, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Pingree, 
             Mr. Moulton, and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 2452. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the benefits and services provided by the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2453. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish the Intelligence Rotational Assignment 
     Program in the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.

[[Page H4222]]

  

           By Mr. HURD (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2454. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to establish a data framework to provide access for 
     appropriate personnel to law enforcement and other 
     information of the Department, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 2455. A bill to prohibit Federal employees from taking 
     certain acts affecting a financial interest of the President, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 2456. A bill to expressly provide for the 
     extraterritorial application of the Federal bribery and 
     illegal gratuity statute to the President and other covered 
     officials; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
       H.R. 2457. A bill to extend the deadline for commencement 
     of construction of certain hydroelectric projects; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 2458. A bill to make payments by the Department of 
     Homeland Security to a State contingent on a State providing 
     the Federal Bureau of Investigation with certain statistics, 
     to require Federal agencies, departments, and courts to 
     provide such statistics to the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation, and to require the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation to publish such statistics; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2459. A bill to require a threat assessment regarding 
     the exploitation by transnational criminal organizations of 
     the unaccompanied alien children services program within the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KINZINGER:
       H.R. 2460. A bill to amend chapter 301 of title 49, United 
     States Code, to improve access to motor vehicle information, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. LANCE:
       H.R. 2461. A bill to expand the use of E-Verify, to hold 
     employers accountable, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Education and the Workforce, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN:
       H.R. 2462. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to assist States to rehabilitate or replace certain bridges, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
       H.R. 2463. A bill to prohibit the sale of shark parts, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Capuano, 
             Mr. Neal, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Keating, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 2464. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 25 New Chardon Street Lobby 
     in Boston, Massachusetts, as the ``John Fitzgerald Kennedy 
     Post Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Scalise, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Richmond, and Mr. Roskam):
       H.R. 2465. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to make permanent the removal of the rental cap 
     for durable medical equipment under the Medicare program with 
     respect to speech generating devices; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself and Mr. Emmer):
       H.R. 2466. A bill to facilitate the expedited review of 
     applications of aliens applying for admission to the United 
     States under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act who are coming to the United States to 
     participate in a program under which they will receive 
     graduate medical education or training, require the Secretary 
     of State to provide relevant Foreign Service officers with 
     training regarding such aliens, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 2467. A bill to amend title 4, United States Code, to 
     permit the flag of the United States to be flown at half-
     staff in the event of the death of the Mayor of the District 
     of Columbia; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PERRY:
       H.R. 2468. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish a homeland intelligence doctrine for the 
     Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Mr. Mast, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and 
             Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 2469. A bill to establish a moratorium on oil and gas-
     related seismic activities off the coastline of the State of 
     Florida, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2470. A bill to require an annual homeland threat 
     assessment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2471. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to share with State, local, and regional fusion 
     centers release information from a Federal correctional 
     facility, including name, charging date, and expected place 
     and date of release, of certain individuals who may pose a 
     terrorist threat, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Ms. Norton, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Mr. Ruppersberger, and Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California):
       H.R. 2472. A bill to prohibit discrimination against 
     individuals with disabilities who need long-term services and 
     supports, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. WAGNER:
       H.R. 2473. A bill to ensure compliance with the Justice for 
     Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, to make strides toward 
     eradicating human trafficking, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California (for herself and Mr. 
             Bera):
       H.R. 2474. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to provide an alternative standard for 
     substantial equivalence determinations for devices, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RASKIN (for himself and Ms. Jayapal):
       H. Res. 325. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the President should retain a 
     protective pool of reporters for purposes of covering the 
     official business of the President, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. PAYNE:
       H. Res. 326. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of May 15 though 19, 2017, as 
     Infrastructure Week; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Mr. Marino, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Engel, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Cooper, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. 
             Eshoo, and Mr. Dent):
       H. Res. 327. A resolution recognizing the importance of 
     vaccinations and immunizations in the United States; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SUOZZI (for himself and Mr. Francis Rooney of 
             Florida):
       H. Res. 328. A resolution commemorating the 50th 
     anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



