

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3486]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT COLONEL REBECCA B. McELWAIN

 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I wish to pay tribute to an 
exceptional officer in the U.S. Army. LTC Rebecca B. McElwain has 
served admirably as a senior budget integrator for the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army, Financial Management and Comptroller, for the 
past year.
  Lieutenant Colonel McElwain began her career in North Dakota where 
she spent time as a medic in the Army Reserves, later transferring to 
the Minnesota National Guard. After graduating with a bachelor's of 
science in business administration from North Dakota State University 
in 1997, she received a commission into the Finance Corps.
  LTC Rebecca McElwain's earliest Active-Duty assignment was with the 
125th Finance Battalion in Hawaii, where she assumed her first company-
grade command and participated in Asia-Pacific training exercises such 
as Cobra Gold in Thailand. After her time in Hawaii, she transitioned 
to Schweinfurt, Germany, where she assumed detachment command in the 
106th Finance Battalion and deployed her unit to Kosovo in support of 
Task Force Falcon. She also served as a military mentor in support of 
the U.S. Ambassador's efforts to encourage Kosovar women to assume 
leadership positions in Kosovo's developing government.
  After her return from Kosovo, she moved across Germany to support 
U.S. Army Europe transformation initiatives as the 266th Finance 
Command executive officer. Shortly after, she was selected for graduate 
school and attended Hawaii Pacific University, where she earned a 
master's degree in business administration with an international 
finance focus. After graduation, she returned to Germany, activated and 
assumed command of the 106th Financial Management Company, deploying 
her unit in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom to establish a new 
headquarters in southern Iraq.
  While in Germany, Lieutenant Colonel McElwain was selected to attend 
the Australian Command and Staff College, a joint military school.
  During her time in Australia, she earned an additional master's 
degree in strategy and management from the University of New South 
Wales and attended classes with 182 students from 22 different nations, 
to include China, India, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab 
Emirates.
  Next, Lieutenant Colonel McElwain served as the chief of financial 
management security assistance in the CENTCOM J8, supporting the fiscal 
requirements of 17 security cooperation offices throughout CENTCOM. She 
also served as a primary member of the CENTCOM operational planning 
team for Afghanistan transition. As the division G8 comptroller for the 
25th Infantry Division, she managed funding for five rapidly deployable 
brigades and received broad exposure to the ongoing Pacific partnership 
efforts within the PACOM footprint, as well as joint force engagements.
  Lieutenant Colonel McElwain's husband, James, has deep family roots 
in West Virginia and served as an Army ordnance officer. Since leaving 
the military, he spends his time as a health and fitness consultant and 
independent chef. Together they have a 13-year-old son, Andrew, who 
enjoys Boy Scouts, loves all types of sports, and keeps them on their 
toes.
  Throughout her career, Lieutenant Colonel McElwain has positively 
impacted her soldiers, peers, and superiors. Her extraordinary career 
is a testament to her hard work and dedication. Our Nation has been 
enriched by her leadership, thoughtful judgment, and exemplary work. On 
behalf of the State of West Virginia and the U.S. Senate and a grateful 
nation, I join my colleagues today in recognizing and commending 
Rebecca on her service to our Nation. We wish Rebecca, James, and 
Andrew all the best as they continue their journey in the Army.

                          ____________________



