

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 83 (Monday, May 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 83 (Monday, May 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2923]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          NATIONAL POLICE WEEK

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, this week marks National Police Week, 
an annual celebration in honor of the men and women who serve in local, 
State, and Federal law enforcement all across our country. We are all 
safer because of their efforts, and this week is an important reminder 
of their continuing service and sacrifice on our behalf--each and every 
day.
  Traveling across the country, thousands of law enforcement officers 
gather in our Nation's Capital each year to mark this occasion. They 
come here to recommit themselves to the peace and safety of our 
communities and to show respect for their fallen brothers and sisters 
in uniform who have made the ultimate sacrifice. We are honored to have 
them in Washington and to join them in recognizing these officers.
  I wish to pay a special tribute to the brave men and women who 
protect and serve my home State of Kentucky. These officers put 
themselves in harm's way to defend our communities every day, and we 
owe them a tremendous debt of gratitude.
  Today, we also remember those officers from the Bluegrass State who 
tragically fell in the line of duty.
  First, I want to pay tribute to Officer Nick Rodman of the Louisville 
Metro Police Department. Officer Rodman unfortunately passed away after 
a car crash in Louisville while responding to calls of shots fired. He 
was 30 years old and had served in the department for 3 years.
  The Rodman family maintains a strong tradition in law enforcement, 
and he proudly continued that legacy. The many individuals Officer 
Rodman touched over the course of his life will remember his 
compassion, patience, and dedication to family.
  I wish to also pay tribute to Officer Charles Howley of the Oldham 
County Police Department. The day before his death, Officer Howley 
responded to a call reporting smoke in a daycare center. While ensuring 
all of the children and employees had evacuated, Officer Howley was 
exposed to a refrigerant. The next day, he suffered a fatal heart 
attack. Officer Howley was 51 years old and dedicated 20 years of 
service to his department and his community.
  Officers Nick Rodman and Charles Howley displayed courage and 
heroism, and their service will not soon be forgotten.
  I wish to also take a moment to thank the men and women of the U.S. 
Capitol Police, who stand guard at the heart of our democracy. They 
protect the Nation's legislature, the people who work here, and the 
millions of visitors who travel here to see our government in action. 
We are grateful for their diligence and for their service.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in expressing the Senate family's 
gratitude to law enforcement officers all across our country as we 
welcome so many of them to the Capital this week. I wish to reiterate 
our admiration for their honorable and dangerous work. We live in a 
safer society because of their brave efforts, and I am glad that we are 
able to take this opportunity today to thank them for their service.

                          ____________________



