

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4229]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            SAUK RAPIDS' CITIZEN OF THE YEAR, JODI SPEICHER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Sauk Rapids' Citizen of 
the Year, Jodi Speicher.
  The Sauk Rapids Chamber of Commerce started this award in 1986 to 
recognize individuals who have influenced the community for the better.
  Jodi, a resident of Sauk Rapids over the past 15 years, is known for 
her many contributions to this wonderful community. Whether she is 
striving for economic prosperity by working with the Sauk Rapids 
Chamber of Commerce, fighting to end disease through her work with the 
Alzheimer's Association and the Walk to End Alzheimer's, helping to put 
on St. Cloud's Expo for Seniors, or advocating for our children by 
serving on the Community Education board for the Sauk Rapids-Rice 
School District, Jodi is always putting her community first.
  It takes a very special person to dedicate so much of their time to 
helping and supporting others. I am proud to recognize that kind of 
accomplishment here today.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Jodi for all she does for our community. She is 
truly deserving of this award. Keep up the great work.


                   Teaching Life Lessons Through Art

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate an educator in my 
district who was recently named Minnesota's Middle Level Art Teacher of 
the Year by the Art Educators of Minnesota.
  Pam Schwandt began her teaching career 31 years ago at Lincoln 
Elementary School for the Arts in Anoka, Minnesota, where she was a 
favorite teacher of one of my staffers. After 13 years in Anoka, Pam 
moved to Roosevelt Middle School, where she has been for the past 18 
years.
  While Pam recognizes that not all of her students will become 
artists, she believes many life lessons can be taught through art. Pam 
has been helping students learn how to find joy, in addition to 
nurturing their creative thinking and problem-solving skills through 
art.
  Mr. Speaker, I speak for all Minnesotans when I say: Thank you, Pam.
  The best teachers are the ones who go above and beyond just teaching 
a subject. The best teachers are the ones like Pam, who teach lessons 
and skills that our students will carry with them for the rest of 
their lives. Pam's award is well deserved.


                          Overcoming Obstacles

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to praise the strength and 
resolve of Forest Lake Patrol Officer Troy Meyer for not only 
overcoming adversity over the past 3 years, but for his amazing 
perseverance.
  Troy has escaped death not just once, not twice, but three times by 
overcoming a severe brain infection, a lung infection, and a double 
lung transplant a year later. He also had surgery to repair a hole in 
his heart just 6 months after that.
  Despite his challenges, Troy always moved ahead, determined to live 
life to the fullest and to help as many people as possible. He has done 
that by returning to his job on the police force only 13 months after 
his third surgery.
  Mr. Speaker, Officer Meyer is an example of the resiliency of the 
human spirit. We are so thankful that he has made a full and miraculous 
recovery. Forest Lake, the police department, and the State of 
Minnesota are fortunate to have an individual like Troy Meyer in our 
community.


                        Serving to Serve Others

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend several police 
officers in my district for receiving the U.S. Department of Defense's 
Patriot Award.
  Police Chief Todd Schwieger and Police Reserve Captain Richard 
Johnson both received the distinguished Employer Support of the Guard 
and Reserve's Patriot Award for their efforts helping an Active-Duty 
soldier work in their department while continuing his service to our 
country through the Army Reserve.
  Created in 1972, the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve was 
created to help employers understand the obligations of their Active-
Duty employees and how to meet any challenges that may arise for those 
employees.
  St. Francis Reserve Officer and Army Reserve Staff Sergeant Richard 
Sieber, whom they had been helping, nominated Chief Schwieger and 
Captain Johnson for this award. Serving in our Nation's Armed Forces is 
one of the most noble ways one can assist our Nation, and it is 
imperative that we help the brave individuals who choose to serve our 
country in any way that we can.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank both Todd Schwieger and Richard Johnson for 
their dedication to our servicemembers, as well as their own service to 
our community through their work in the St. Francis Police Department. 
Their work hasn't gone unnoticed.

                          ____________________



