

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4824-H4825]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 EXTENDING DEADLINE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT NUMBERED 
                                 12740

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 447) to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a 
hydroelectric project.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 447

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

[[Page H4825]]

  


     SECTION 1. EXTENSION.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the time period specified 
     in section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that 
     would otherwise apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission project numbered 12740, the Commission may, at the 
     request of the licensee for the project, and after reasonable 
     notice, in accordance with the good faith, due diligence, and 
     public interest requirements of that section and the 
     Commission's procedures under that section, extend the time 
     period during which the licensee is required to commence the 
     construction of the project for up to 3 consecutive 2-year 
     periods from the date of the expiration of the extension 
     originally issued by the Commission.
       (b) Reinstatement of Expired License.--If the period 
     required for commencement of construction of the project 
     described in subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Commission may reinstate the 
     license for the project effective as of the date of its 
     expiration and the first extension authorized under 
     subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of such 
     expiration.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Upton) and the gentlewoman from Colorado (Ms. DeGette) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.


                             General Leave

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on H.R. 447.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Michigan?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, this bill authorizes the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission, FERC, upon request, to extend by 6 years the time period 
during which construction must commence on the Flannagan Dam and 
Reservoir Hydroelectric Project located in Dickenson County, Virginia. 
Additionally, FERC may reinstate the construction license if it is 
expired.
  The bill, again, passed under suspension in the 114th Congress, and I 
would hope that we could do the same today in a bipartisan way.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I again rise in support of legislation by Mr. Griffith, H.R. 447, 
which would extend the deadline for commencement of construction of the 
Flannagan Hydroelectric Project, to be located at the Army Corps of 
Engineers' John W. Flannagan Dam on the Russell Fork River in Dickenson 
County, Virginia.
  The licensee for the Flannagan Hydroelectric Project did not commence 
construction by the already-extended deadline in January 2016. 
Legislation is now required for the project to move forward.
  The bill would authorize FERC to extend for up to three consecutive 
years the date by which the licensee is required to commence 
construction.
  During the last Congress, the full House of Representatives passed 
similar legislation by voice vote. I once again hope my colleagues will 
help me in supporting passage of H.R. 447. Let's get this one built, 
too.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Griffith), a member of the Energy and 
Commerce Committee.
  Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 447, which 
would extend the construction commencement deadline for a hydroelectric 
project at the Flannagan Dam in Dickenson County.
  Extensive coordination between the hydroelectric project developer 
and the Army Corps and the current difficulties in obtaining a power 
purchase agreement have necessitated this construction start-date 
extension.
  This legislation passed the House last Congress unanimously and was 
included in the last Congress' House comprehensive energy bill. It is 
my hope that this legislation will once again receive overwhelming 
support in this Chamber. I appreciate the support of my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle.
  Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Upton) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 447.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



