

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4708]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       IN MEMORY OF GREGG ALLMAN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Carter) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life 
of Mr. Gregg Allman, award-winning rock and roll singer and songwriter 
who passed away in Savannah, Georgia, on Sunday May 27, 2017, at the 
age of 69.
  Mr. Allman will be remembered as the keyboardist and distinctly 
soulful voice of the Allman Brothers, a three-time Grammy Award-winning 
Southern rock band whose popularity has spawned generations of 
dedicated followers throughout the world.
  Born in Nashville, Tennessee, in 1947, Mr. Allman and his brother, 
Duane, were skilled guitarists and keyboardists by the time they 
graduated from high school. The brothers went on to perform with a 
number of small West Coast sound rock bands throughout the 1960s, 
moving between Los Angeles and Jacksonville, before establishing the 
Allman Brothers Band in 1969.
  The band's most popular songs included ``Midnight Rider,'' ``Whipping 
Post,'' and ``Ramblin' Man,'' which references Macon's Highway 41, 
where Mr. Allman was laid to rest. These songs will span the test of 
time and continue to live on, even as the music industry has 
drastically changed.
  In 1973, Mr. Allman began a solo career and enjoyed a great deal of 
success as both a member of the Allman Brothers and a solo act. In 
1995, Allman and the other members of the band were inducted into the 
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
  I am proud that Mr. Allman chose to call Savannah home, and I am 
honored to have the opportunity to represent such an outstanding 
artist.


                    Remembering Frank Chappell, Jr.

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
groundbreaking and altruistic life of Mr. Frank Chappell, who passed 
away on Saturday, May 27, 2017, at the age of 85.
  Originally from Quitman, Georgia, Mr. Chappell always had a passion 
for serving others. He grew up as an integral member of his church and 
joined the Army directly after high school to serve his country and 
fight in the Korean war. In the Army, he gained the motivation he 
needed to continue his education, enrolling in Savannah State 
University upon his return home from Korea.
  He moved to Savannah permanently after graduation and continued using 
his passion for service to make Savannah a better place to live. In 
1957, he joined the Savannah police department.

  Mr. Chappell was in the second group of African-American police 
officers the department had ever hired. However, at that time, these 
officers were still unable to drive in police cars or arrest potential 
criminals. Nevertheless, Mr. Chappell's personable nature created a 
connection with neighbors around Savannah that, before 1957, had felt 
underrepresented.
  He retired from the police force after 35 years but, subsequently, 
embarked on another service position as a member of the city council 
for Thunderbolt, Georgia. During his term there, he was instrumental in 
building a new town hall and senior citizen building.
  I am proud to thank Mr. Chappell, as well as his family, for all of 
his outstanding work in the Savannah community. He certainly will be 
missed.


        American Patriot Award Winner Judge J. Alexander Atwood

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
outstanding career of Judge Alex Atwood, who received the American 
Patriot Award from the Glynn County Veterans Council on May 29, 2017. 
Each year, one individual that has exhibited leadership that positively 
impacts Glynn County receives this award.
  Mr. Atwood is certainly worthy of this title. He started his career 
as a local law enforcement officer before he transitioned his knowledge 
of the law into a career as a special agent with the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center, where he educated thousands on the role of 
public defenders.
  In Glynn County, Judge Atwood is well known for his extraordinary 
legal career, serving as a magistrate judge for Glynn County and as a 
representative for Georgia's 179th District in the Georgia General 
Assembly. In this capacity, Judge Atwood has been a champion for 
Georgians. He introduced legislation that set parameters for illegal 
immigration, provides protections against human trafficking, and 
generates structured legal reform.
  Judge Atwood has found the time to devote himself to a number of 
Glynn County organizations, working with each to make Glynn County a 
better place. Judge Atwood is a beaming example of leadership, and his 
career serves as an important lesson in fulfilling our civic duty as 
Americans.

                          ____________________



