

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3642]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            MORNING BUSINESS

                                 ______
                                 

                      TRIBUTE TO JOAN B. CLAYBROOK

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want to take a few moments to 
acknowledge my friend, Joan Claybrook. Joan is a legend. She is one of 
the most effective champions this Nation has ever seen--and she is 
still leading the charge. Last week, Joan celebrated her 80th birthday, 
and one thing is clear, Joan Claybrook isn't slowing down.
  Like so many bright young people in Washington, Joan began her career 
right here in the U.S. Congress, working for Senator Walter Mondale and 
Representative James Mackay as a congressional fellow. In the summer of 
1966, the Senate unanimously passed the National Traffic and Motor 
Vehicle Safety Act, the first major legislation to improve auto safety 
in this country. This effort was led by consumer advocate, Ralph Nader, 
and working right by his side was Joan Claybrook. It led to important 
safety standards we take for granted today: seatbelts, windshield 
wipers, outside mirrors, and dashboards. This landmark legislation also 
launched Joan's impressive career as a consumer advocate.
  During the Carter administration, Joan served as the head of the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, where she led efforts 
to improve vehicle safety and increased consumer access to safety 
information. Prior to her time with the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration, she ran Congress Watch, worked for the Public Interest 
Research Group, National Traffic Safety Bureau, Social Security 
Administration, and the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and 
Welfare.
  In 2009, Joan retired as president of Public Citizen, after nearly 
three decades of service championing consumer interests and campaigning 
on issues from campaign finance reform, to truck safety, and business 
regulation. Among her many accolades at Public Citizen, Joan was able 
to limit the number of triple- and longer double-trailer trucks on the 
road, and she helped to ensure that health, safety, and environmental 
agencies were able to continue its important work protecting the 
American people, but her proudest, and perhaps most impactful, 
achievement was winning a 20-year battle with the auto industry to 
install airbags in cars. Because of Joan's work, countless lives have 
been saved. I want to thank her for these contributions that improved 
the health and safety for so many across the country.
  Joan Claybrook has been honored by numerous organizations, including 
the Philip Hart Distinguished Consumer Service Award from the Consumer 
Federation of America, an Excellence in Public Service Award from the 
Georgetown University Law Center, and an award for Superior Achievement 
from the National Traffic Safety Bureau--just to name a few. In her 
precious spare time, Joan serves on the board of Citizens for Tax 
Justice and Public Justice. She also cochairs the Advocates for Highway 
and Auto Safety and Citizens for Reliable and Safe Highways.
  It is not simply Joan Claybrook's extraordinary resume that earned 
her such great respect; it was her approach to the job. Joan brought 
humility, integrity, and fairness to every challenge she faced. Her 
energy, passion, and optimism are infectious, and her continued drive 
to ensure all Americans have the chance to lead safe and equitable 
lives make her an inspiration. Joan may have retired, but her 
commitment to those values has never wavered. She is a force of nature.
  I will close with this. I strongly believe in the role of public 
service to create change and make a difference. Joan Claybrook's years 
of service reflect these values and prove that, with the right 
approach, change is possible. I am lucky to count Joan as a friend. It 
is with great pride that I ask my colleagues to join me in celebrating 
Joan Claybrook's 80th birthday and congratulate her on an outstanding 
career. I hope Joan enjoys this special day, and I wish her many more 
wonderful years.

                          ____________________



