

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3395-S3396]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Udall, and 
             Mr. Isakson):
       S. 1333. A bill to provide for rental assistance for 
     homeless or at-risk Indian veterans; to the Committee on 
     Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Isakson, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Ms. Collins, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1334. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for advanced illness care coordination 
     services for Medicare beneficiaries, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 1335. A bill to establish the Ste. Genevieve National 
     Historic Site in the State of Missouri, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GARDNER:
       S. 1336. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     reauthorize hydroelectric production incentives and 
     hydroelectric efficiency improvement incentives, and for

[[Page S3396]]

     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1337. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     make certain strategic energy infrastructure projects 
     eligible for certain loan guarantees, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Tillis, Mr. 
             Isakson, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Coons, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Cotton, and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 1338. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to the 
     United States Army Dust Off crews of the Vietnam War, 
     collectively, in recognition of their extraordinary heroism 
     and life-saving actions in Vietnam; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. Burr, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Thune, and Mr. 
             Perdue):
       S. 1339. A bill to provide authority for access to certain 
     business records collected under the Foreign Intelligence 
     Surveillance Act of 1978 prior to November 29, 2015, to make 
     the authority for roving surveillance, the authority to treat 
     individual terrorists as agents of foreign powers, and title 
     VII of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 
     permanent, and to modify the certification requirements for 
     access to telephone toll and transactional records by the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. CAPITO:
       S. 1340. A bill to provide for an expedited permitting 
     process for critical energy infrastructure projects relating 
     to the establishment of a regional energy hub in Appalachia, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Mr. Reed, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Markey, and Mr. 
             Franken):
       S. 1341. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to prohibit employment of children in tobacco-related 
     agriculture by deeming such employment as oppressive child 
     labor; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Lankford):
       S. 1342. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to treat obligations financing professional sports stadiums 
     as private activity bonds if such obligations meet the 
     private business use test; to the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



