

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5492-H5503]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   FREDERICK DOUGLASS TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PREVENTION AND PROTECTION 
                      REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 2200) to reauthorize the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Act of 2000, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2200

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Frederick Douglass 
     Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization 
     Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.

     TITLE I--COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS IN THE UNITED STATES

Subtitle A--Programs To Support Victims and Persons Vulnerable to Human 
                              Trafficking

Sec. 101. Grants to assist in the recognition of trafficking.
Sec. 102. Preventing future trafficking in the United States through 
              receipt of complaints abroad.
Sec. 103. Modification to grants for victims services.

     Subtitle B--Governmental Efforts To Prevent Human Trafficking

Sec. 111. Required training to prevent human trafficking for certain 
              contracting air carriers.
Sec. 112. Priority for use of funds for lodging expenses at 
              accommodations lacking certain policies relating to child 
              sexual exploitation.
Sec. 113. Ensuring United States procurement does not fund human 
              trafficking.
Sec. 114. Training course on human trafficking and Government 
              contracting.
Sec. 115. Modifications to the advisory council on human trafficking.
Sec. 116. Sense of Congress on strengthening Federal efforts to reduce 
              demand.
Sec. 117. Sense of Congress on the senior policy operating group.

   Subtitle C--Preventing Trafficking in Persons in the United States

Sec. 121. Demand reduction strategies in the United States.
Sec. 122. Designation of a labor prosecutor to enhance State and local 
              efforts to combat trafficking in persons.
Sec. 123. Preventing human trafficking in foreign missions and 
              diplomatic households.
Sec. 124. Ensuring that traffickers help pay for care for victims.

         Subtitle D--Monitoring Child, Forced, and Slave Labor

Sec. 131. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 132. Report on the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff Act of 
              1930.
Sec. 133. Modification to list of child-made and slavery-made goods.

              TITLE II--FIGHTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING ABROAD

               Subtitle A--Efforts To Combat Trafficking

Sec. 201. Including the Secretary of the Treasury and the United States 
              Trade Representative as a member of the interagency task 
              force to monitor and combat trafficking.
Sec. 202. Encouraging countries to maintain and share data on human 
              trafficking efforts.
Sec. 203. Appropriate listing of governments involved in human 
              trafficking.
Sec. 204. Requirements for strategies to prevent trafficking.

[[Page H5493]]

Sec. 205. Expansion of Department of State rewards program.
Sec. 206. Briefing on countries with primarily migrant workforces.
Sec. 207. Report on recipients of funding from the United States Agency 
              for International Development.

            Subtitle B--Child Soldier Prevention Act of 2017

Sec. 211. Findings.
Sec. 212. Amendments to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008.

               TITLE III--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations under the Trafficking Victims 
              Protection Act of 2000.
Sec. 302. Authorization of appropriations under the Trafficking Victims 
              Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005.
Sec. 303. Authorization of appropriations for enhancing efforts to 
              combat the trafficking of children.
Sec. 304. Authorization of appropriations under the International 
              Megan's Law.
Sec. 305. Authorization of appropriations for airport personnel 
              training to identify and report human trafficking 
              victims.

     TITLE I--COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS IN THE UNITED STATES

Subtitle A--Programs To Support Victims and Persons Vulnerable to Human 
                              Trafficking

     SEC. 101. GRANTS TO ASSIST IN THE RECOGNITION OF TRAFFICKING.

       (a) Grants To Assist in Recognition of Trafficking.--
     Section 106(b) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
     2000 (22 U.S.C. 7104(b)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``The President'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(1) In general.--The President''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2) Grants to assist in the recognition of trafficking.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services may award grants to local educational agencies, in 
     partnership with a nonprofit, nongovernmental agency, to 
     establish, expand, and support programs--
       ``(i) to educate school staff to recognize and respond to 
     signs of labor trafficking and sex trafficking; and
       ``(ii) to provide age-appropriate information to students 
     on how to avoid becoming victims of labor trafficking and sex 
     trafficking.
       ``(B) Program requirements.--Amounts awarded under this 
     paragraph shall be used for--
       ``(i) education on--

       ``(I) how to avoid becoming victims of labor trafficking 
     and sex trafficking;
       ``(II) indicators that an individual is a victim or 
     potential victim of labor trafficking or sex trafficking;
       ``(III) options and procedures for referring such an 
     individual, as appropriate, to information on such 
     trafficking and services available for victims of such 
     trafficking;
       ``(IV) reporting requirements and procedures in accordance 
     with applicable Federal and State law; and
       ``(V) how to carry out activities authorized under 
     subparagraph (A)(ii); and

       ``(ii) a plan, developed and implemented in consultation 
     with local law enforcement agencies, to ensure the safety of 
     school staff and students reporting such trafficking.
       ``(C) Priority.--In awarding grants under this paragraph, 
     the Secretary shall give priority to local educational 
     agencies serving a high-intensity child sex trafficking area.
       ``(D) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
       ``(i) ESEA terms.--The terms `elementary school', `local 
     educational agency', `other staff', and `secondary school' 
     have the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the 
     Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     7801).
       ``(ii) High-intensity child sex trafficking area.--The term 
     `high-intensity child sex trafficking area' means a 
     metropolitan area designated by the Director of the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation as a high-intensity child 
     prostitution area.
       ``(iii) Labor trafficking.--The term `labor trafficking' 
     means conduct described in section 103(9)(B) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7102(9)(B)).
       ``(iv) School staff.--The term `school staff' means 
     teachers, nurses, school leaders and administrators, and 
     other staff at elementary schools and secondary schools.
       ``(v) Sex trafficking.--The term `sex trafficking' means 
     the conduct described in section 103(9)(A) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102(9)(A)).''.
       (b) Inclusion in Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 
     113(b)(1) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7110(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``section 
     107(b)'' and inserting ``sections 106(b) and 107(b)''.

     SEC. 102. PREVENTING FUTURE TRAFFICKING IN THE UNITED STATES 
                   THROUGH RECEIPT OF COMPLAINTS ABROAD.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of State shall ensure that 
     each diplomatic or consular post or other mission designates 
     an employee to be responsible for receiving information from 
     any person who was a victim of a severe form of trafficking 
     in persons (as such term is defined in section 103(14) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7102(14))) while present in the United States, or any person 
     who has information regarding such a victim.
       (b) Provision of Information.--Any information received 
     pursuant to subsection (a) shall be transmitted to the 
     Department of Justice, the Department of Labor, the 
     Department of Homeland Security, and to any other relevant 
     Federal agency for appropriate response. The Attorney 
     General, the Secretary of Labor, and the head of any other 
     such relevant Federal agency shall establish a process to 
     address any actions to be taken in response to such 
     information.
       (c) Assistance From Foreign Governments.--The employee 
     designated for receiving information pursuant to subsection 
     (a) should coordinate with foreign governments or civil 
     society organizations in the countries of origin of victims 
     of severe forms of trafficking in persons, with the 
     permission of and without compromising the safety of such 
     victims, to ensure that such victims receive any additional 
     support available.

     SEC. 103. MODIFICATION TO GRANTS FOR VICTIMS SERVICES.

       Section 107(b)(2)(A) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking 
     ``programs for'' and all that follows and inserting the 
     following: ``programs for victims of human trafficking, 
     including programs that provide trauma-informed care or long-
     term housing options to such victims who are--
       ``(i) between the ages of 12 and 24 and who are homeless, 
     in foster care, or involved in the criminal justice system;
       ``(ii) transitioning out of the foster care system; or
       ``(iii) women or girls in underserved populations.''.

     Subtitle B--Governmental Efforts To Prevent Human Trafficking

     SEC. 111. REQUIRED TRAINING TO PREVENT HUMAN TRAFFICKING FOR 
                   CERTAIN CONTRACTING AIR CARRIERS.

       (a) In General.--Section 40118 of title 49, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(g) Training Requirements.--The Administrator of General 
     Services shall ensure that any contract entered into for 
     provision of air transportation with a domestic carrier under 
     this section requires that the contracting air carrier 
     provides to the Administrator of General Services, the 
     Secretary of Transportation, the Administrator of the 
     Transportation Security Administration, and the Commissioner 
     of U.S. Customs and Border Protection an annual report 
     regarding--
       ``(1) the number of personnel trained in the detection and 
     reporting of potential human trafficking (as described in 
     paragraphs (9) and (10) of section 103 of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102)), including 
     the training required under section 44734(a)(4);
       ``(2) the number of notifications of potential human 
     trafficking victims received from staff or other passengers; 
     and
       ``(3) whether the air carrier notified the National Human 
     Trafficking Hotline or law enforcement at the relevant 
     airport of the potential human trafficking victim for each 
     such notification of potential human trafficking, and if so, 
     when the notification was made.''.
       (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply to any contract entered into after the date of 
     enactment of this Act.
       (c) Exception.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
     not apply to any contract entered into by the Secretary of 
     Defense.

     SEC. 112. PRIORITY FOR USE OF FUNDS FOR LODGING EXPENSES AT 
                   ACCOMMODATIONS LACKING CERTAIN POLICIES 
                   RELATING TO CHILD SEXUAL EXPLOITATION.

       (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:

     ``Sec. 5713. Priority for use of funds for lodging expenses 
       at accommodations lacking certain policies relating to 
       child sexual exploitation.

       ``(a) In General.--For the purpose of making payments under 
     this chapter for lodging expenses each agency shall ensure 
     that, to the extent practicable and within the United States, 
     any commercial-lodging room nights for employees of that 
     agency are booked in a preferred place of accommodation.
       ``(b) Preferred Place of Accommodation Defined.--In this 
     section, `preferred place of accommodation' means a 
     commercial place of accommodation that--
       ``(1) has a zero-tolerance policy in place regarding the 
     sexual exploitation of children (as described in section 
     103(9)(A) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7102(9)(A))) within the accommodation;
       ``(2) has procedures in place to identify and report any 
     such exploitation to the appropriate authorities;
       ``(3) makes training materials available to all employees 
     to prevent such exploitation;
       ``(4) has trained all employees annually on the 
     identification of possible cases of such exploitation and 
     procedures to report suspected abuse to the appropriate 
     authorities;
       ``(5) protects employees who report suspected cases of such 
     exploitation according to the protocol identified in 
     training; and
       ``(6) keeps records of the number of suspected cases of 
     such exploitation, including

[[Page H5494]]

     the reasons for suspicion, title of employee who reported the 
     suspicion, and where the report was made.
       ``(c) Regulations Required.--The Administrator of General 
     Services shall--
       ``(1) maintain a list of each preferred place of 
     accommodation; and
       ``(2) issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out 
     this section.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
     subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``5713. Priority for use of funds for lodging expenses at 
              accommodations lacking certain policies relating to child 
              sexual exploitation.''.

     SEC. 113. ENSURING UNITED STATES PROCUREMENT DOES NOT FUND 
                   HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       Section 106 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
     2000 (22 U.S.C. 7104) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(k) Agency Action To Prevent Funding of Human 
     Trafficking.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of State, Secretary of 
     Labor, Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development, and Director of the Office of 
     Management and Budget shall each submit to the Administrator 
     of General Services (who shall submit the reports to the 
     appropriate congressional committees), at the end of each 
     fiscal year, a report that includes each of the following:
       ``(A) The name and contact information of the individual 
     within the agency's office of legal counsel or office of 
     acquisition policy who is responsible for overseeing the 
     implementation of subsection (g) of this section, title XVII 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2013 (22 U.S.C. 7104a et seq.), and any related regulation in 
     the Federal Acquisition Regulation (including the Federal 
     Acquisition Regulation; Ending Trafficking in Persons (48 
     C.F.R. Parts 1, 2, 9, 12, 22, 42, and 52)).
       ``(B) Agency action to ensure contractors are educated on 
     the applicable laws and regulations listed in subparagraph 
     (A).
       ``(C) Agency action to ensure the acquisition workforce and 
     agency officials understand implementation of the laws and 
     regulations listed in subparagraph (A), including best 
     practices for--
       ``(i) ensuring compliance with such laws and regulations;
       ``(ii) assessing the serious, repeated, willful, or 
     pervasive nature of any violation of such laws or 
     regulations; and
       ``(iii) evaluating steps contractors have taken to correct 
     any such violation.
       ``(D) The number of contracts containing language referring 
     to the laws and regulations listed in subparagraph (A) and 
     the number of contracts that did not contain any language 
     referring to the laws and regulations listed in subparagraph 
     (A).
       ``(E) The number of allegations of severe forms of 
     trafficking in persons received and the source type of the 
     allegation (contractor, subcontractor, employee of contractor 
     or subcontractor, or an individual outside of the contract).
       ``(F) The number of such allegations investigated by the 
     agency, a summary of any findings of such investigation, and 
     any improvements recommended by the agency to prevent such 
     conduct from recurring.
       ``(G) The number of such allegations referred to the 
     Attorney General for prosecution under section 3271 of title 
     18, United States Code, and the outcomes of such referrals.
       ``(H) Any remedial action taken as a result of such 
     investigation, including whether--
       ``(i) a contractor or subcontractor (at any tier) was 
     debarred or suspended due to a violation of a law or 
     regulation relating to severe forms of trafficking in 
     persons; or
       ``(ii) a contract was terminated pursuant to subsection (g) 
     as a result of such violation.
       ``(I) Any other assistance offered to agency contractors to 
     ensure compliance with a law or regulation relating to severe 
     forms of trafficking in persons.
       ``(J) Any interagency meetings or data sharing regarding 
     suspended or disbarred contractors or subcontractors (at any 
     tier) for severe forms of trafficking in persons.
       ``(K) Any contract with a contractor or subcontractor (at 
     any tier) located outside the United States and the country 
     location for each such contractor or subcontractor.
       ``(2) Appropriate congressional committees.--In this 
     subsection, the term `appropriate congressional committees' 
     means--
       ``(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Armed Services, the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Armed Services, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the 
     Senate.''.

     SEC. 114. TRAINING COURSE ON HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND GOVERNMENT 
                   CONTRACTING.

       Any curriculum (including any continuing education 
     curriculum) for the acquisition workforce used by the Federal 
     Acquisition Institute established under section 1201 of title 
     41, United States Code, shall include at least one course, 
     which shall be at least 30 minutes, on the law and 
     regulations relating to human trafficking and Government 
     contracting.

     SEC. 115. MODIFICATIONS TO THE ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 115 of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act 
     of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 243) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (f)(2), to read as follows:
       ``(2) shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in 
     lieu of subsistence, in accordance with the applicable 
     provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
     United States Code.''; and
       (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``2020'' and inserting 
     ``2021''.

     SEC. 116. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON STRENGTHENING FEDERAL EFFORTS 
                   TO REDUCE DEMAND.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) all Federal anti-trafficking training (including 
     training under section 114(c) of the Justice for Victims of 
     Trafficking Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044g(c)) and under 
     section 107(c)(4) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act 
     of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(c)(4))) provided to Federal judges, 
     prosecutors, and State and local law enforcement officials 
     should--
       (A) explain the circumstances under which sex buyers are 
     considered parties to the crime of trafficking;
       (B) provide best practices for arresting or prosecuting 
     buyers of illegal sex acts as a form of sex trafficking 
     prevention; and
       (C) specify that any comprehensive approach to eliminating 
     sex and labor trafficking must include a demand reduction 
     component; and
       (2) any request for proposals for grants or cooperative 
     agreement opportunities issued by the Attorney General with 
     respect to the prevention of trafficking should include 
     specific language with respect to demand reduction.

     SEC. 117. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE SENIOR POLICY OPERATING 
                   GROUP.

       It is the sense of Congress that the Senior Policy 
     Operating Group established under section 105(g) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(g)) should create a working group to examine the role of 
     demand reduction, both domestically and internationally, in 
     achieving the purposes of the Justice for Victims of 
     Trafficking Act (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 227) and 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.).

   Subtitle C--Preventing Trafficking in Persons in the United States

     SEC. 121. DEMAND REDUCTION STRATEGIES IN THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) Department of Justice Task Force.--Section 105(d)(7) of 
     the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(d)(7)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (Q)(vii), by striking ``and'' at the 
     end;
       (2) in subparagraph (R), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(S) tactics and strategies employed by human trafficking 
     task forces sponsored by the Department of Justice to reduce 
     demand for trafficking victims.''.
       (b) Report on State Enforcement.--Section 114(e)(1)(A) of 
     the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 
     14044g(e)(1)(A)) is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``, noting the number of covered 
     offenders'' after ``covered offense'' in each place it 
     occurs;
       (2) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
     ``rates'' and inserting ``number'';
       (3) in clause (i), by striking ``arrest'' and inserting 
     ``arrests'';
       (4) in clause (ii), by striking ``prosecution'' and 
     inserting ``prosecutions''; and
       (5) in clause (iii), by striking ``conviction'' and 
     inserting ``convictions''.

     SEC. 122. DESIGNATION OF A LABOR PROSECUTOR TO ENHANCE STATE 
                   AND LOCAL EFFORTS TO COMBAT TRAFFICKING IN 
                   PERSONS.

       Section 204(a)(1) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Reauthorization Act of 2005 is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(F) where appropriate, to designate at least one 
     prosecutor for cases of severe forms of trafficking in 
     persons (as such term is defined in section 103(9) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7102(9)).''.

     SEC. 123. PREVENTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN FOREIGN MISSIONS 
                   AND DIPLOMATIC HOUSEHOLDS.

       Subsection (a) of section 203 of the William Wilberforce 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 
     U.S.C. 1375c) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``for such period as the Secretary 
     determines necessary'' and inserting ``for the period of at 
     least one year or longer if the Secretary determines a longer 
     period is necessary''; and
       (B) by striking ``the Secretary determines that there is'' 
     and all that follows until the end of the paragraph and 
     inserting ``there is an unpaid default judgement directly or 
     indirectly related to human trafficking against the employer 
     or a family member accredited by the embassy, the employer or 
     family member has refused to agree to a voluntary interview 
     with United States law enforcement, or the diplomatic mission 
     or international organization hosting the employer

[[Page H5495]]

     or family member has refused to waive immunity in a human 
     trafficking case brought by the United States Government or 
     to agree to prosecute the case in the country that accredited 
     the employer or family member.''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) by striking ``is in place''; and
       (B) by inserting ``, as applicable, the default judgment 
     has been resolved, the employer or family member has agreed 
     to meet with United States law enforcement, the diplomatic 
     mission or international organization hosting the employer or 
     family member has waived immunity for the employer or family 
     member or agreed to prosecute the case in the country that 
     accredited the employer or family member, or the diplomatic 
     mission or international organization hosting the employer or 
     family member has in place'' after ``appropriate 
     congressional committees that''.

     SEC. 124. ENSURING THAT TRAFFICKERS HELP PAY FOR CARE FOR 
                   VICTIMS.

       Section 3014(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2021''.

         Subtitle D--Monitoring Child, Forced, and Slave Labor

     SEC. 131. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) foreign assistance that addresses poverty alleviation 
     and humanitarian disasters reduces the vulnerability of men, 
     women, and children to human trafficking and is a crucial 
     part of the response of the United States to modern-day 
     slavery;
       (2) the Deputy Under Secretary of the Bureau of 
     International Labor Affairs of the Department of Labor and 
     the grant programs administered by the Deputy Under Secretary 
     play a critical role in preventing and protecting children 
     from the worst forms of child labor, including situations of 
     trafficking, and in reducing the vulnerabilities of men and 
     women to situations of forced labor and trafficking; and
       (3) the Secretary of Labor also plays a critical role in 
     helping other Federal departments and agencies to prevent 
     goods made with forced and child labor from entering the 
     United States by consulting with such departments and 
     agencies to reduce forced and child labor internationally and 
     ensuring that products made by forced labor and child labor 
     in violation of international standards are not imported into 
     the United States.

     SEC. 132. REPORT ON THE ENFORCEMENT OF SECTION 307 OF THE 
                   TARIFF ACT OF 1930.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the committees listed in 
     subsection (b) a report describing any obstacles or 
     challenges to enforcing section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 
     (19 U.S.C. 1307).
       (b) Committees.--The committees listed in this subsection 
     are--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Financial Services, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Ways and 
     Means of the House of Representatives; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate.
       (c) Requirements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall--
       (1) describe the role and best practices of private-sector 
     employers in the United States in complying with the 
     provisions of section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930;
       (2) describe any efforts or programs undertaken by relevant 
     Federal, State, or local government agencies to encourage 
     employers, directly or indirectly, to comply with such 
     provisions;
       (3) describe the roles of the relevant Federal departments 
     and agencies in overseeing and regulating such provisions, 
     and the oversight and enforcement mechanisms used by such 
     departments or agencies;
       (4) provide concrete, actual case studies or examples of 
     how such provisions are enforced;
       (5) identify the number of petitions received and cases 
     initiated (whether by petition or otherwise) or investigated 
     by each relevant Federal department or agency charged with 
     implementing and enforcing such provisions, as well as the 
     dates petitions were received or investigations were 
     initiated, and their current statuses;
       (6) identify any enforcement actions, including, but not 
     limited to, the issuance of Withhold Release Orders, the 
     detention of shipments, the issuance of civil penalties, and 
     the formal charging with criminal charges relating to the 
     forced labor scheme, taken as a result of these petitions and 
     investigations by type of action, date of action, commodity, 
     and country of origin in the past 10 years;
       (7) with respect to any relevant petition filed during the 
     10-year period prior to the date of the enactment of this Act 
     with the relevant Federal departments and agencies tasked 
     with implementing such provisions, list the specific 
     products, country of origin, manufacturer, importer, end-user 
     or retailer, and outcomes of any investigation;
       (8) identify any gaps that may exist in enforcement of such 
     provisions;
       (9) describe the engagement of the relevant Federal 
     departments and agencies with stakeholders, including the 
     engagement of importers, forced labor experts, and 
     nongovernmental organizations; and
       (10) based on the information required by paragraphs (1) 
     through (9), identify any regulatory obstacles or challenges 
     to enforcement of such provisions and provide recommendations 
     for actions that could be taken by the relevant Federal 
     departments and agencies to overcome these obstacles.

     SEC. 133. MODIFICATION TO LIST OF CHILD-MADE AND SLAVERY-MADE 
                   GOODS.

       (a) In General.--Section 105(b)(2)(C) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (22 U.S.C. 
     7112(b)(2)(C)) is amended by inserting ``, including, to the 
     extent practicable, goods that are produced with inputs that 
     are produced with forced labor or child labor'' after 
     ``international standards''.
       (b) Inclusion in Authorization of Appropriations.--Amounts 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     under section 113(f) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7110(f)), as amended by section 301(a) 
     of this Act, are authorized to be made available to carry out 
     the purposes described in section 105(b)(2) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 
     (22 U.S.C. 7112(b)(2)), as amended by subsection (a).

              TITLE II--FIGHTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING ABROAD

               Subtitle A--Efforts To Combat Trafficking

     SEC. 201. INCLUDING THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY AND THE 
                   UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE AS A MEMBER 
                   OF THE INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE TO MONITOR AND 
                   COMBAT TRAFFICKING.

       Section 105(b) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
     2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(b)) is amended by inserting ``the 
     Secretary of the Treasury, the United States Trade 
     Representative,'' after ``the Secretary of Education,''.

     SEC. 202. ENCOURAGING COUNTRIES TO MAINTAIN AND SHARE DATA ON 
                   HUMAN TRAFFICKING EFFORTS.

       Paragraphs (1) and (7) of section 108(b) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1) and 
     (b)(7)) are each amended by striking the final sentence of 
     such paragraphs.

     SEC. 203. APPROPRIATE LISTING OF GOVERNMENTS INVOLVED IN 
                   HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       Subsection (b) of section 110 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7107(b)) is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) In paragraph (1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (C)--
       (i) by striking ``and whose governments do not'' and 
     inserting the following: ``and whose governments--
       ``(i) do not''; and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following new clauses:
       ``(ii) tolerate trafficking in government-funded programs; 
     or
       ``(iii) have a government-supported practice of--

       ``(I) trafficking;
       ``(II) facilitating the use of forced labor (such as in 
     agriculture, forestry, mining, or construction);
       ``(III) permitting sexual slavery in government camps, 
     compounds, or outposts; or
       ``(IV) employing child soldiers;'';

       (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (C) in subparagraph (G), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (D) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(H) for each country included in a different list than 
     the country had been placed in the previous annual report, a 
     detailed explanation of how the concrete actions (or lack of 
     such actions) undertaken by the country during the previous 
     reporting period contributed to such change, including a 
     clear linkage between such actions and the minimum standards 
     enumerated in section 108.''.
       (2) In paragraph (2)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A)(iii)--
       (i) in subclause (I)--

       (I) by inserting ``and the country is not taking steps 
     commensurate with the size of the trafficking problem'' 
     before the semicolon at the end; and
       (II) by adding ``or'' at the end;

       (ii) in subclause (II), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
     a period; and
       (iii) by striking subclause (III);
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the last annual 
     report'' and inserting ``April 1 of the previous year'';
       (C) in subparagraph (D)--
       (i) in clause (i), by striking ``the date of the enactment 
     of this subparagraph,'' and all that follows and inserting--
       ``the date of the enactment of this subparagraph--

       ``(I) shall be included on the list of countries described 
     in paragraph (1)(C); and
       ``(II) shall be required to meet the requirements specified 
     in paragraph (1)(B) before the country may be removed from 
     the list of countries described in paragraph (1)(C).'';

       (ii) in clause (ii)--

       (I) by striking ``2 years'' and inserting ``1 year'';
       (II) in subclause (II), by striking ``and'';
       (III) in subclause (III), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (IV) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(IV) the country has taken concrete actions to implement 
     the principal recommendations of the most recent annual 
     report on trafficking in persons with respect to that 
     country.''; and

       (iii) by adding at the end the following:

[[Page H5496]]

       ``(iii) Written plan.--The Secretary of State shall 
     endeavor to work with each country that receives a waiver 
     under clause (ii) and with civil society organizations in 
     each country to draft and implement a written plan described 
     in such clause.'';
       (D) in subparagraph (E)--
       (i) by striking ``through (III)'' and inserting ``through 
     (IV)''; and
       (ii) by striking ``shall provide'' and all that follows and 
     inserting the following: ``shall provide, on a publicly 
     available website maintained by the Department of State--
       ``(i) a detailed description of the credible evidence 
     supporting such determination;
       ``(ii) the written plan submitted by the country under 
     subparagraph (D)(ii)(I); and
       ``(iii) supporting documentation providing credible 
     evidence of--

       ``(I) each concrete action by the country to bring itself 
     into compliance with the minimum standards for the 
     elimination of trafficking, including copies of relevant laws 
     or regulations adopted or modified; and
       ``(II) any actions taken by that country to enforce the 
     minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking, as 
     appropriate.''.

       (E) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(F) Special rule for certain countries on special watch 
     list that are downgraded and reinstated on special watch 
     list.--Notwithstanding subparagraphs (D) and (E), a country 
     that--
       ``(i) was included on the special watch list described in 
     subparagraph (A) for--

       ``(I) two consecutive years after the date of the enactment 
     of subparagraph (D); and
       ``(II) any additional years after such date of enactment by 
     reason of the President exercising the waiver authority under 
     clause (ii) of subparagraph (D); and

       ``(ii) was subsequently included on the list of countries 
     described in paragraph (1)(C),
     may not thereafter be included on the special watch list 
     described in subparagraph (A) for more than 1 consecutive 
     year.''.
       (3) In paragraph (3)--
       (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting a semicolon; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) the extent to which the government of the country is 
     devoting sufficient budgetary resources--
       ``(i) to investigate and prosecute acts of severe 
     trafficking in persons;
       ``(ii) to convict and sentence persons responsible for such 
     acts; and
       ``(iii) to obtain restitution for victims of human 
     trafficking;
       ``(E) the extent to which the government of the country is 
     devoting sufficient budgetary resources--
       ``(i) to protect and rehabilitate victims of trafficking in 
     persons; and
       ``(ii) to prevent trafficking in persons;
       ``(F) the extent to which the government of the country has 
     consulted with domestic and international civil society 
     organizations to improve the provision of services to victims 
     of trafficking in persons; and
       ``(G) whether--
       ``(i) government officials participate in or facilitate 
     forced labor and human trafficking; and
       ``(ii) the government maintains policies that provide 
     incentives for or otherwise support the participation in or 
     facilitation of forced labor and human trafficking by 
     officials at any level of government.''.
       (4) By adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) Special rule for changes in certain determinations.--
     Not later than 90 days after the submission of each annual 
     report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of State shall 
     submit a detailed description of the credible evidence 
     supporting a change in listing of a country, accompanied by 
     copies of documents providing such evidence, as appropriate, 
     to the appropriate congressional committees not later than 90 
     days after the submission of that report if--
       ``(A) a country is included on a list of countries 
     described in paragraph (1)(C) in an annual report submitted 
     in calendar year 2015 or in any calendar year thereafter; and
       ``(B) in the annual report submitted in the next calendar 
     year, the country is listed on a list of countries described 
     in paragraph (1)(B).
       ``(5) Written plan.--The Secretary of State shall endeavor 
     to work with each country that has been listed pursuant to 
     paragraph (1)(C) in the most recent annual report and civil 
     society organizations to draft and implement the written plan 
     described in paragraph (2)(D)(ii).
       ``(6) Definitions.--In this subsection:
       ``(A) Concrete actions.--The term `concrete actions' means 
     any of the following actions that demonstrably improve the 
     condition of a substantial number of victims of human 
     trafficking and persons vulnerable to human trafficking:
       ``(i) Enforcement actions taken.
       ``(ii) Investigations actively underway.
       ``(iii) Prosecutions conducted.
       ``(iv) Convictions attained.
       ``(v) Training provided.
       ``(vi) Programs and partnerships actively underway.
       ``(vii) Victim services offered, including immigration 
     services and restitution.
       ``(viii) The amount of money the government in question has 
     committed to the actions described in clauses (i) through 
     (vii).
       ``(ix) An assessment of the impact of such actions on the 
     prevalence of human trafficking in the country.
       ``(B) Credible evidence.--The term `credible evidence' 
     means information relied upon by the Department of State to 
     make determinations relating to the provisions set forth in 
     this division, including--
       ``(i) reports by the Department of State;
       ``(ii) reports of other Federal agencies, including the 
     Department of Labor's List of Goods Produced by Child Labor 
     or Forced Labor and List of Products Produced by Forced Labor 
     or Indentured Child Labor;
       ``(iii) documentation provided by a foreign country, 
     including copies of relevant laws, regulations, policies 
     adopted or modified, enforcement actions taken and judicial 
     proceedings, training conducted, consultations conducted, 
     programs and partnerships launched, and services provided;
       ``(iv) materials developed by civil society organizations;
       ``(v) information from survivors of human trafficking, 
     vulnerable persons, and whistleblowers;
       ``(vi) all relevant media and academic reports that, in 
     light of reason and common sense, are worthy of belief; and
       ``(vii) information developed by multilateral 
     institutions.''.

     SEC. 204. REQUIREMENTS FOR STRATEGIES TO PREVENT TRAFFICKING.

       (a) Report on New Practices To Combat Trafficking.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 7 
     years, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
     Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
     Development, shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations of the Senate a report--
       (A) describing any practices adopted by the Department or 
     the Agency to better combat trafficking in persons, in 
     accordance with the report submitted under section 101(b)(4) 
     of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 
     2005, in order to reduce the risk of trafficking in post-
     conflict or post-disaster areas; or
       (B) if no such practices have been adopted, including a 
     strategy to reduce the risk of trafficking in such areas.
       (2) Public availability.--Each report submitted under 
     paragraph (1) shall be posted on a publicly available 
     internet website of the Department of State.
       (b) Child Protection Strategies in Watch List Countries.--
     The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development shall incorporate into the relevant 
     country development cooperation strategy for each country on 
     the special watch list described in section 110(b)(2)(A) or 
     the list described in section 110(b)(1)(C) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7107(b)(2)(A) and 
     (b)(1)(C)), as amended by section 203 of this Act, strategies 
     for the protection of children and the reduction of the risk 
     of trafficking.

     SEC. 205. EXPANSION OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE REWARDS PROGRAM.

       Paragraph (5) of section 36(k) of the State Department 
     Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2708(k)) is 
     amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``means'';
       (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
     (i) and (ii), respectively, and moving such clauses, as so 
     redesignated, two ems to the right;
       (3) by inserting before clause (i), as so redesignated, the 
     following:
       ``(A) means--'';
       (4) in clause (ii), as so redesignated, by striking the 
     period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
       (5) by adding at the end following new subparagraph:
       ``(B) includes severe forms of trafficking in persons, as 
     such term is defined in section 103 of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).''.

     SEC. 206. BRIEFING ON COUNTRIES WITH PRIMARILY MIGRANT 
                   WORKFORCES.

       Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of State shall provide to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the House and the Committee on Foreign Relations 
     and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate a briefing 
     that includes, with respect to each country that has a 
     domestic workforce of which more than 80 percent are third-
     country nationals, each of the following:
       (1) An assessment of the progress made by the government of 
     such country toward implementing the recommendations with 
     respect to such country contained in the most recent 
     ``Trafficking in Persons Report'' submitted by the Secretary 
     under section 110(b) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7107(b)), as amended by section 203 of 
     this Act.
       (2) A description of the efforts made by the United States 
     to ensure that any domestic worker brought into the United 
     States by an official of such country is not a victim of 
     trafficking.

     SEC. 207. REPORT ON RECIPIENTS OF FUNDING FROM THE UNITED 
                   STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, and by October 1 of each of the following 4 years, 
     the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development shall submit to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the

[[Page H5497]]

     Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report 
     describing, with respect to the prior fiscal year--
       (1) each obligation or expenditure of Federal funds by the 
     Agency for the purpose of combating human trafficking and 
     forced labor; and
       (2) with respect to each such obligation or expenditure, 
     the program, project, activity, primary recipient, and any 
     sub-grantees or sub-contractors.

            Subtitle B--Child Soldier Prevention Act of 2017

     SEC. 211. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds the following:
       (1) The recruitment or use of children in armed conflict is 
     unacceptable for any government or government-supported 
     entity receiving United States assistance.
       (2) The recruitment or use of children in armed conflict, 
     including direct combat, support roles, and sexual slavery, 
     occurred during 2015-2016 in Afghanistan, South Sudan, Sudan, 
     Burma, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Iraq, Nigeria, 
     Rwanda, Somalia, Syria, and Yemen.
       (3) Entities of the Government of Afghanistan, particularly 
     the Afghan Local Police and Afghan National Police, continue 
     to recruit children to serve as combatants or as servants, 
     including as sex slaves.
       (4) Police forces of the Government of Afghanistan 
     participate in counterterrorism operations, direct and 
     indirect combat, security operations, fight alongside regular 
     armies, and are targeted for violence by the Taliban as well 
     as by other opposition groups.
       (5) In February 2016, a 10-year-old boy was assassinated by 
     the Taliban after he had been publically honored by Afghan 
     local police forces for his assistance in combat operations 
     against the Taliban.
       (6) Recruitment and use of children in armed conflict by 
     government forces has continued in 2016 in South Sudan with 
     the return to hostilities.
       (7) At least 650 children have been recruited and used in 
     armed conflict in South Sudan in 2016, and at least 16,000 
     have been recruited since that country's civil war began in 
     2013.

     SEC. 212. AMENDMENTS TO THE CHILD SOLDIERS PREVENTION ACT OF 
                   2008.

       (a) Definitions.--Section 402(2)(A) of the Child Soldiers 
     Prevention Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2370c(2)(A)) is amended by 
     inserting ``, police, or other security forces'' after 
     ``governmental armed forces'' each place it appears.
       (b) Prohibition.--Section 404 of the Child Soldiers 
     Prevention Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2370c-1) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by inserting ``, police, or other security forces'' 
     after ``governmental armed forces''; and
       (B) by striking ``recruit and use child soldiers'' and 
     inserting ``recruit or use child soldiers'';
       (2) by amending subsection (b)(2) to read as follows:
       ``(2) Notification.--
       ``(A) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the date of 
     submission of each report required under section 110(b) of 
     the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, the Secretary 
     of State shall formally notify each government included in 
     the list required under paragraph (1) that such government is 
     so included.
       ``(B) Congressional notification.--As soon as practicable 
     after making all of the notifications required under 
     subparagraph (A) with respect to a report, the Secretary of 
     State shall notify the appropriate congressional committees 
     that the requirements of subparagraph (A) have been met.'';
       (3) in subsection (c)(1), by adding at the end before the 
     period the following: ``and certifies to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that the government of such country 
     is taking effective and continuing steps to address the 
     problem of child soldiers''; and
       (4) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``to a country'' and 
     all that follows through ``subsection (a)'' and inserting 
     ``under section 541 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
     U.S.C. 2347) through the Defense Institute for International 
     Legal Studies or the Center for Civil-Military Relations at 
     the Naval Post-Graduate School, and may provide nonlethal 
     supplies (as defined in section 2557(d)(1)(B) of title 10), 
     to a country subject to the prohibition under subsection 
     (a)''.
       (c) Reports.--Section 405 of the Child Soldiers Prevention 
     Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2370c-2) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``, 
     during any of the 5 years following the date of the enactment 
     of this Act,'';
       (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as 
     paragraphs (3) through (5), respectively;
       (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
       ``(2) a description and the amount of any assistance 
     withheld under this title pursuant to the application to 
     those countries of the prohibition in section 404(a);''; and
       (D) in paragraph (5) (as so redesignated), by inserting 
     ``and the amount'' after ``a description''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(d) Information To Be Included in Annual Trafficking in 
     Persons Report.--If a country is notified pursuant to section 
     404(b)(2), or a waiver is granted pursuant to section 
     404(c)(1), the Secretary of State shall include in each 
     report required under section 110(b) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7107(b)) the 
     information required to be included in the annual report to 
     Congress under paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (c) 
     of this section.''.

               TITLE III--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

     SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS UNDER THE 
                   TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION ACT OF 2000.

       (a) In General.--Section 113 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7110) is amended by 
     striking ``2017'' each place it appears and inserting 
     ``2021''.
       (b) Human Smuggling and Trafficking Center.--Section 
     112A(b)(4) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7109a(b)(4)) is amended by striking ``2017'' and 
     inserting ``2021''.

     SEC. 302. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS UNDER THE 
                   TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION REAUTHORIZATION 
                   ACT OF 2005.

       (a) In General.--Section 201(c)(2) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
     14044(c)(2)) is amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
     ``2021''.
       (b) Assistance Programs for Certain Persons Subject to 
     Trafficking.--
       (1) In general.--Section 202(i) of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 is amended by striking 
     ``2017'' and inserting ``2021''.
       (2) Repeal of sunset.--Section 1241 of the Violence Against 
     Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4; 127 
     Stat. 149) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) by striking ``(a) In General.--Section 202'' and 
     inserting ``Section 202''.
       (c) Child Trafficking Deterrence Program.--Section 203(i) 
     of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 
     2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044b) is amended by striking ``2020'' and 
     inserting ``2021''.
       (d) Enhancing State and Local Efforts.--Section 204(e) of 
     the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 
     2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044c(e)) is amended by striking ``2017'' 
     and inserting ``2021''.

     SEC. 303. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ENHANCING 
                   EFFORTS TO COMBAT THE TRAFFICKING OF CHILDREN.

       Section 235(c)(6)(F) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 
     1232(c)(6)(F)) is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting ``of 
     Health'' after ``Secretary''; and
       (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``and 2017'' and inserting 
     ``through 2021''.

     SEC. 304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS UNDER THE 
                   INTERNATIONAL MEGAN'S LAW.

       Section 11 of the International Megan's Law to Prevent 
     Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced 
     Notification of Traveling Sex Offenders (42 U.S.C. 16935h) is 
     amended by striking ``and 2018'' and inserting ``through 
     2021''.

     SEC. 305. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR AIRPORT 
                   PERSONNEL TRAINING TO IDENTIFY AND REPORT HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING VICTIMS.

       There is authorized to be appropriated to the Commissioner 
     of U.S. Customs and Border Protection $250,000 for each of 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2021 to expand outreach and live 
     on-site anti-trafficking training for airport and airline 
     personnel.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Bass) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             general leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks 
and to include any extraneous material in the Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the right word for the type of slavery we see today, the 
type of human trafficking that is slavery, is to focus on the fact that 
this is indentured servitude. This is human slavery, and traffickers 
around the world increasingly exploit over a million individuals--I am 
talking about women and children--in sex trafficking for commercial 
gain.
  According to credible estimates, if we add to that those who are 
engaged in forced labor, that number that are actually enslaved is some 
20 million. It is a coercive, multibillion-dollar industry that 
destroys families, destroys communities, strengthens brutal criminal 
networks, and tramples human dignity.
  This plague is really global. It is not limited to the developing 
world. At a regular meeting of the Human Trafficking Congressional 
Advisory Committee I set up in southern California

[[Page H5498]]

nearly 4 years ago, I have met with brave survivors who endured forced 
labor and commercial sexual exploitation in my home State of 
California.
  I think of Angela Guanzon locked into her abusive workplace, sleeping 
on the hallway floor. I think of Carissa Phelps being sold on the 
streets of Fresno at the age of 12 by a very violent pimp.
  Meeting them and having them testify showed me and many others that 
the horror of trafficking lies not in statistics, but in stolen lives. 
In the words of the great abolitionist, Frederick Douglass, enslavement 
is such an affront to human conscience that, in his words, `` . . . to 
expose it, is to kill it. Slavery is one of those monsters of darkness 
to whom the light of truth is death.''
  Exposing the harsh reality of human trafficking to international 
daylight is a central tenet of the legislation here that we are 
reauthorizing today.

                              {time}  1600

  In the late 1990s, under the leadership of Congressman Chris Smith, 
the author of today's bill, the Foreign Affairs Committee initiated the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Act, which became law in 2000. That law 
created the annual Trafficking in Persons Report and the country tier 
rankings that put the issue on the radar screens of world governments 
for the first time and every year thereafter.
  I was proud to have supported that legislation. It created the 
possibility of sanctions against the worst offenders. It also 
established law enforcement and other domestic initiatives to combat 
trafficking within the United States, which have been refined in the 
multiple reauthorizations that have followed.
  The law has produced notable successes. More than 120 countries, in 
fact, have now enacted antitrafficking laws, and many are improving 
their prosecution and conviction of those who are involved in 
trafficking. Countless lives have been improved and have been saved as 
a result.
  In the TIP Report released 2 weeks ago, 27 countries were upgraded to 
a higher tier, and that is progress. But sustained pressure and 
scrutiny are needed. Enacting a law is not the same thing as enforcing 
it, and, unfortunately, 21 countries slipped to a lower tier in last 
year's report.
  I am proud to be an original cosponsor of H.R. 2200, the Frederick 
Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization 
Act, which continues and updates our fight against human trafficking. 
It extends until 2021 the current authorizations for our international 
and domestic programs, which expire at the end of September. It also 
contains multiple reforms and refinements to U.S. programs, and it 
strengthens the annual TIP Report and tier rankings.
  I am pleased that this bill incorporates the text of a bill of mine, 
H.R. 1625, the TARGET Act, which I introduced earlier this year and the 
House passed in March. This important provision turns the tables on 
international traffickers by authorizing the State Department to offer 
and publicize bounties for their arrest and for their conviction.
  I again want to thank the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) and 
the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Bass) for introducing this strong, 
bipartisan bill. I also want to thank the other seven committees of 
referral for the input and assistance they provided on the portions of 
the bill within their jurisdiction.
  H.R. 2200 is a critical contribution to the cause of human freedom 
and the cause of human dignity. It deserves our unanimous support.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                    Washington, DC, July 10, 2017.
     Hon. William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
     Chairman, House Armed Services Committee,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Thornberry: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass 
     Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization 
     Act of 2017, so that the bill may proceed expeditiously to 
     the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 2200 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                      Committee on Armed Services,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                    Washington, DC, July 12, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing to you concerning H.R. 
     2200, the ``Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention 
     and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017.'' There are 
     certain provisions in the bill which fall within the Rule X 
     jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services.
       In the interest of permitting your committee to proceed 
     expeditiously to floor consideration of this important 
     legislation, I am willing to waive this committee's further 
     consideration of H.R. 2200. I do so with the understanding 
     that by waiving consideration of the bill, the Committee on 
     Armed Services does not waive any future jurisdictional claim 
     over the subject matters contained in the legislation which 
     fall within its Rule X jurisdiction.
       Please place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest into the 
     Congressional Record during consideration of the measure on 
     the House floor. Thank you for the cooperative spirit in 
     which you have worked regarding this matter and others 
     between our respective committees.
           Sincerely,
                                    William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                    Washington, DC, July 10, 2017.
     Hon. Virginia Foxx,
     Chairwoman, House Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairwoman Foxx: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass 
     Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization 
     Act of 2017, so that the bill may proceed expeditiously to 
     the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 2200 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

         House of Representatives, Committee on Education and the 
           Workforce,
                                    Washington, DC, July 12, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing to confirm our mutual 
     understanding with respect to H.R. 2200, the Frederick 
     Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection 
     Reauthorization Act of 2017. Thank you for consulting with 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce with regard to 
     H.R. 2200 on those matters within the Committee's 
     jurisdiction.
       In the interest of expediting the House's consideration of 
     H.R. 2200, the Committee on Education and the Workforce will 
     forgo further consideration of this bill. However, I do so 
     only with the understanding this procedural route will not be 
     construed to prejudice my committee's jurisdictional interest 
     and prerogatives on this bill or any other similar 
     legislation and will not be considered as precedent for 
     consideration of matters of jurisdictional interest to my 
     committee in the future.
       I respectfully request your support for the appointment of 
     outside conferees from the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce should this bill or a similar bill be considered in 
     a conference with the Senate. I also request you include our 
     exchange of letters on this matter in the Congressional 
     Record during consideration of this bill on the House Floor. 
     Thank you for your attention to these matters.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Virginia Foxx,
                                                       Chairwoman.

[[Page H5499]]

     
                                  ____
                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                    Washington, DC, July 10, 2017.
     Hon. Greg Walden,
     Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Walden: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass 
     Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization 
     Act of 2017, so that the bill may proceed expeditiously to 
     the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 2200 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                             Committee on Energy and Commerce,

                                    Washington, DC, July 12, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Royce: I write in regard to H.R. 2200, 
     Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and 
     Protection Reauthorization Act 2017, which was referred in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce. I wanted to 
     notify you that the Committee will forgo action on the bill 
     so that it may proceed expeditiously to the House floor for 
     consideration.
       The Committee on Energy and Commerce takes this action with 
     our mutual understanding that by foregoing consideration of 
     H.R. 2200, the Committee does not waive any jurisdiction over 
     the subject matter contained in this or similar legislation 
     and will be appropriately consulted and involved as this or 
     similar legislation moves forward to address any remaining 
     issues within the Committee's jurisdiction. The Committee 
     also reserves the right to seek appointment of conferees to 
     any House-Senate conference involving this or similar 
     legislation and asks that you support any such request.
       I would appreciate your response confirming this 
     understanding with respect to H.R. 2020 and ask that a copy 
     of our exchange of letters on this matter be included in your 
     committee's report on the legislation or the Congressional 
     Record during its consideration on the House floor.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Greg Walden.
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                    Washington, DC, July 10, 2017.
     Hon. Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Goodlatte: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass 
     Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization 
     Act of 2017, so that the bill may proceed expeditiously to 
     the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 2200 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                   Committee on the Judiciary,

                                    Washington, DC, July 12, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Royce: I write with respect to H.R. 2200, the 
     ``Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and 
     Protection Reauthorization Act.'' As a result of your having 
     consulted with us on provisions within H.R. 2200 that fall 
     within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, I forego any further consideration of this bill so 
     that it may proceed expeditiously to the House floor for 
     consideration.
       The Judiciary Committee takes this action with our mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 2200 at 
     this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction over subject 
     matter contained in this or similar legislation and that our 
     committee will be appropriately consulted and involved as 
     this bill or similar legislation moves forward so that we may 
     address any remaining issues in our jurisdiction. Our 
     committee also reserves the right to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees to any House-Senate 
     conference involving this or similar legislation and asks 
     that you support any such request.
       I would appreciate a response to this letter confirming 
     this understanding with respect to H.R. 2200 and would ask 
     that a copy of our exchange of letters on this matter be 
     included in the Congressional Record during floor 
     consideration of the bill.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                     Committee on Foreign Affairs,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                     Washington, DC, May 24, 2017.
     Hon. Jason Chaffetz,
     Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Chaffetz: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass 
     Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization 
     Act of 2017, so that the bill may proceed expeditiously to 
     the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 2200 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

         Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of 
           Representatives,
                                     Washington, DC, May 22, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I write concerning H.R. 2200, the 
     Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017. As you know, the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs received an original referral 
     and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform a 
     secondary referral when the bill was introduced on April 27, 
     2017. I recognize and appreciate your desire to bring this 
     legislation before the House of Representatives in an 
     expeditious manner, and accordingly, the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform will forego action on the 
     bill.
       The Committee takes this action with our mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 2200 at 
     this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction over the subject 
     matter contained in this or similar legislation. Further, I 
     request your support for the appointment of conferees from 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform during any 
     House-Senate conference convened on this or related 
     legislation.
       Finally, I would ask that a copy of our exchange of letters 
     on this matter be included in any bill report filed by the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as in the Congressional 
     Record during floor consideration, to memorialize our 
     understanding.
           Sincerely,
                                                   Jason Chaffetz,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                     Washington, DC, May 19, 2017.
     Hon. Bill Shuster,
     Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Shuster: Thank you for working with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee on mutually agreeable text edits, 
     and agreeing to be discharged from further consideration of 
     H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims 
     Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017, so 
     that the bill may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 2200 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
                                                         Chairman.

[[Page H5500]]

     
                                  ____
         Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, House of 
           Representatives,
                                     Washington, DC, May 19, 2017.
     Hon. Ed Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Royce: I write concerning H.R. 2200, the 
     ``Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017.'' This legislation 
     includes matters that fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
       In order to expedite Floor consideration of H.R. 2200, the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure will forgo 
     action on this bill. However, this is conditional on our 
     mutual understanding that forgoing consideration of the bill 
     does not prejudice the Committee with respect to the 
     appointment of conferees or to any future jurisdictional 
     claim over the subject matters contained in the bill or 
     similar legislation that fall within the Committee's Rule X 
     jurisdiction. It is also conditional on our mutually agreed 
     to changes to the text of the bill. I appreciate you working 
     with us on the bill and request you urge the Speaker to name 
     members of the Committee to any conference committee named to 
     consider such provisions.
       Please place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest in the 
     Congressional Record during House Floor consideration of the 
     bill. I look forward to working with the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs as the bill moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Bill Shuster,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                     Washington, DC, May 16, 2017.
     Hon. Kevin Brady,
     Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Brady: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass 
     Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization 
     Act of 2017, so that the bill may proceed expeditiously to 
     the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 2200 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                  Committee on Ways and Means,

                                     Washington, DC, May 16, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Royce: I am writing with respect to H.R. 
     2200, the ``Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention 
     and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017,'' on which the 
     Committee on Ways and Means was granted an additional 
     referral.
       As a result of your having consulted with us on provisions 
     in H.R. 2200 that fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, I agree to waive formal 
     consideration of this bill so that it may move expeditiously 
     to the floor. The Committee on Ways and Means takes this 
     action with the mutual understanding that we do not waive any 
     jurisdiction over the subject matter contained in this or 
     similar legislation, and the Committee will be appropriately 
     consulted and involved as the bill or similar legislation 
     moves forward so that we may address any remaining issues 
     that fall within our jurisdiction. The Committee also 
     reserves the right to seek appointment of an appropriate 
     number of conferees to any House-Senate conference involving 
     this or similar legislation, and requests your support for 
     such request.
       Finally, I would appreciate your response to this letter 
     confirming this understanding, and would ask that a copy of 
     our exchange of letters on this matter be included in the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of H.R. 2200.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Kevin Brady,
                                                         Chairman.

  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2200, a bill to 
reauthorize $130 million in currently appropriated funds in order to 
continue, over the next 4 years, critical and necessary work to fight 
sex and labor trafficking. This bill builds upon the remarkable work of 
the original Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, the 
cornerstone of Federal human trafficking legislation.
  I want to thank my colleagues Chairman Royce and especially Chairman 
Chris Smith for his pioneering leadership.
  Despite great strides and the tremendous progress we have made in 
exposing and beginning to understand the complexities and growing 
obstacles of human trafficking, we still have much to do.
  I am particularly thankful for the inclusion of my language in 
section 103, which provides a modification to grants for victims 
services in order to provide a necessary focus on young victims in the 
child welfare system. Specifically, this section will amend the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Act to address a key reason children and 
women have difficulty leaving their exploiter: the lack of housing. 
They have nowhere to go.
  As with all antitrafficking measures, I am particularly concerned 
about what we are doing to combat the devastating epidemic of young 
girls in the foster care system falling prey to child exploitation and 
sex trafficking. The average age of a girl entering into sex 
trafficking is 12 years old.
  In 2016, an estimated one out of six endangered runaways reported to 
the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children were likely child 
sex trafficking victims. Of these reported victims, 86 percent were in 
the care of social services or foster care when they ran.
  One seasoned detective in Los Angeles recently reported during a 
demonstration on law enforcement technology used to identify victims 
that every single girl he has ever encountered through sex trafficking 
or commercially exploited sex activity has been in the child welfare 
system.
  It cannot be overstated that the purpose of the child welfare system 
is to protect children who are abused or neglected. It is our 
responsibility to make sure these children do not fall between the 
cracks. It is devastating to know that we have failed many of them.
  Just as if one of our own children in our family went missing, a 
child that is under the care of the government that goes missing 
demands our most aggressive response and effort to find, save, and 
protect them.
  Our most urgent priority should be disrupting the child welfare-to-
trafficking pipeline and finding better, more effective ways to meet 
the critical needs of this vulnerable population. In particular, as we 
continue to tackle child sex trafficking in the United States, it is 
imperative that we provide a special focus on the immediate and long-
term housing needs of at-risk foster youth. Young girls and 
disconnected youth have particular and sensitive needs as trafficking 
victims.
  Current funding for housing and shelter for victims of child sex 
trafficking is insufficient to meet the growing demand for youth 
services, especially young foster girls exploited through their 
emotional and financial vulnerabilities. At every level of government, 
we have an urgent responsibility to shut down pathways for child sex 
trafficking and to invest in critical housing needs for vulnerable 
youth and girls. This responsibility includes supporting and adopting 
H.R. 2200.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith). He is the chairman of the 
Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human 
Rights, and International Organizations, and, of course, he is the 
author of the original Trafficking Victims Protection Act. He is also 
the author of this bill today.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished 
chairman Ed Royce for yielding. I thank him for his leadership on 
trafficking, for this bill in particular, for the markup, and for all 
of the assistance he provided. I also thank Eliot Engel, our ranking 
member. I thank them from the bottom of my heart.
  I want to thank Karen Bass, the lead Democrat on the bill, for her 
exceptional leadership and her collaboration on this legislation.
  I want to thank Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy. I have to 
say--and I have been working on human trafficking since about 1995, 
chaired probably more than 30 hearings and written four laws--I have 
never seen such a deep commitment to fighting trafficking and 
protecting victims

[[Page H5501]]

than our leadership. It is unparalleled and it is inspired.
  Kevin McCarthy helped ensure timely consideration. There are eight 
committees of referral. Sometimes that is a death knell for any bill. 
It is so hard to secure agreements and vote them out. Well, each of 
those chairmen and their staffs worked diligently and in good faith. At 
the end of the day, the leadership was there. They had our back on the 
legislation.
  I want to thank Chairman Royce, again, for his extraordinary 
leadership as well.
  Mr. Speaker, ever since the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
2000 became law in 2000, combating human trafficking has been a major 
priority in the United States and, indeed, globally.
  Over the last 17 years, police and civil society organizations--many 
of them faith based--have identified and rescued more than 250,000 
victims worldwide. Some put that number at close to 300,000. 
Prosecution of traffickers in the U.S. has increased by more than 500 
percent, but, frankly, our task is far from accomplished.
  The International Labor Organization suggests that nearly 21 million 
people in the world today are enslaved, most of them women and 
children. That is unconscionable. Every human life is of infinite 
value. We have a duty to protect the weakest and most vulnerable from 
harm.
  The Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2017 is comprehensive. It is bipartisan, and it 
is designed to strengthen, expand, and create new initiatives to 
protect victims, prosecute traffickers, and prevent this cruelty and 
exploitation from happening in the first place.
  Title I of the bill focuses on combating trafficking in the United 
States. Title II focuses on the world. Title III authorizes 
appropriations of more than half a billion dollars over 4 years, 
including reauthorization of the TVPA of 2000.
  The legislation, Mr. Speaker, is named in honor of the incomparable 
Frederick Douglass on the eve of his 200th birthday. Born a slave in 
1818, he escaped when he was 20 and heroically dedicated his entire 
life to abolishing slavery and, after emancipation, to ending the Jim 
Crow laws in order to achieve full equality for African-American 
citizens. A gifted orator, author, editor, statesman, and Republican, 
he died in 1895.
  Human trafficking, Mr. Speaker, is modern-day slavery that needs a 
Herculean effort to eradicate.
  Among its numerous provisions and one that is of special interest to 
the Frederick Douglass Family Initiative--and we worked very closely 
with them on this--it authorizes HHS grant money to ``establish, 
expand, and support programs'' to provide age appropriate information 
to students all across America to avoid becoming victims of sex and 
labor trafficking as well as to educate school staff to recognize and 
respond to signs of trafficking.
  It adopts a number of best practices, like for example making sure 
that when government employees book rooms, that we utilize hotels where 
they have initiated efforts and sponsored training to eradicate child 
sex trafficking. We do the same thing with airlines. The flight 
attendants--Delta is a classic example--once trained, can spot 
trafficking in progress, inform the pilot, and when that plane lands or 
jet lands, ensure that if there is a situation, there is an arrest of 
the traffickers and a rescue of the woman or children who are being 
trafficked.
  We will now try, to the best of our ability, to hold the airlines to 
account. There needs to be reporting. It is already the law that they 
should provide this training. Now we want to ensure that training 
actually happens.
  Chairman Royce talked about the TIP Report. Just a couple weeks ago, 
Secretary Tillerson announced the 2017 TIP Report. It is a voluminous 
and very accurate report about what is happening in 190 countries 
around the world, including the United States. Those countries that are 
designated Tier 3, egregious violator, are subject to sanctions.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Perry). The time of the gentleman has 
expired.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 2 minutes 
to the gentleman.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I just want to commend the 
Trump administration for finally holding China to account as a Tier 3 
violator. A worst offender.
  The pending bill makes a number of important reforms to the TIP 
Report and how it is prepared. My hope is that we will have an even 
better, more accurate, and more effective effort at holding countries 
to account.
  Again, this legislation applies to the United States for labor and 
sex trafficking as well as to the world. Again, I do want to thank all 
those who have been involved in it.
  Let me just say we worked on this bill for well over a year with 
ATEST; Polaris; IJM; World Vision; United; Humanity; ECPAT; United 
States Conference of Catholic Bishops; Shared Hope International; CATW; 
Ambassador Swanee Hunt; the National Center for Missing & Exploited 
Children, which provided valuable insight; and others. They were all 
very much a part of our effort.
  I also want to thank critical staff, including Luke Murray and Kelly 
Dixon, from the Majority Leader's Office, who are outstanding--they get 
the job done, and they ask all the right questions about substance and 
process and helped us along--Doug Anderson, counsel of the House 
Committee on Foreign Affairs; Mary Noonan; my chief of staff, Piero 
Tozzi; Allison Hollabaugh; Krystal Williams, Karen Bass' staff member; 
and so many others on the committees that also made such a huge 
difference in enabling us to get this through all the committees to the 
floor today.
  I urge my colleagues to pass the bill.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee), who is the ranking member on the Crime, 
Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee of the 
Judiciary Committee.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the authors of the 
legislation, Mr. Smith and Ms. Bass, for their leadership, and thank 
Chairman Royce for again reemphasizing the importance of this in terms 
of all committees, including the number of committees that have been 
noted.
  Let me thank the cosponsors for acknowledging as well, Frederick 
Douglass. It is right that he was born in slavery, but he reminded us 
that there is no power without struggle, and there will have to be a 
struggle to end sex trafficking and human trafficking.
  Mr. Speaker, I am reminded of the 1990s, when I met my first real 
modern-day slaves on the border of Bangladesh, where we were seeing 
women fleeing who had been trafficked and who had been utilized 
sexually. Their parents had sold them out of desperation.

                              {time}  1615

  They were actual true slaves who were fleeing to the border of 
Bangladesh. That is a startling and stark recognition that in the 
1990s, and now in the 21st century, slavery still exists.
  I am delighted to be an original cosponsor of this legislation and to 
have worked on these issues, and to acknowledge the commemoration of 
Mr. Douglass' 200th birthday.
  So I am grateful for the $130 million in current funds appropriated 
to ensure a robust response to fight human trafficking; again, to do 
this at home and abroad; and to acknowledge the alliance to end slavery 
and trafficking at the National Center for Missing & Exploited 
Children, who are supporting this.
  The bill would also provide human services grants, opportunities to 
be used for educating children and staff in U.S. schools about human 
trafficking. Of course, it would help my own center in Houston, the 
Center to End Trafficking and Exploitation of Children, or CETEC. I 
thank them for their great work. It is the only center of its kind in 
Texas established to combat minor sex trafficking. In addition, this 
important bill helps many others.
  Let me conclude by simply saying that I support the idea of holding 
airlines accountable. We have been working with them. Homeland Security 
has been working with them. The flight attendants want to be engaged. 
All of us should be engaged in fighting sex trafficking.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask for support of the bill.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman

[[Page H5502]]

from Ohio (Mr. Chabot), a senior member of the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs.
  Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2200, 
H.R. 2480, and H.R. 2664, three overwhelmingly bipartisan bills curbing 
and combating modern-day slavery at home and abroad.
  I want to particularly thank Chairman Royce, as well as Chairman 
Smith and the gentlewoman from California, Ms. Bass, the ranking 
member, all who have been leaders in this area for quite some time now, 
and we appreciate that very much.
  As a parent, a grandparent now, and as a former teacher, I know that 
education empowers children. These bills on the floor today ensure that 
we are doing our utmost to allow every child across the globe the 
opportunity to reach their highest potential. That is why I introduced 
the bipartisan H.R. 2408, Protecting Girls' Access to Education Act, 
earlier this year, along with my Democratic colleague, Robin Kelly.
  By providing access to safe primary and secondary education, our bill 
aims to offer educational opportunities to the approximately 62 million 
girls globally who are not in school. There are 62 million girls who 
are not in school.
  Similarly, these three bills, and the one that we are discussing 
right now on the floor today, are aimed at eradicating human 
trafficking and should improve every girl's chances for a quality 
education and a more peaceful and stable life, both in the United 
States and abroad.
  Unfortunately, there are young girls and women here in this country 
who are vulnerable in the greatest country on the face of the Earth. 
Obviously, the problem is much worse across the globe.
  I want to thank all colleagues on both sides of the aisle for truly 
working in a bipartisan fashion to at least get a handle on one of the 
toughest things that we face globally, and that is child trafficking, 
human trafficking, and a whole range of issues along this line.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Hawaii (Ms. Gabbard).
  Ms. GABBARD. Mr. Speaker, too often we hear about human trafficking 
and sex slavery. It is often dismissed as a crime that only happens 
``over there''--overseas or in a foreign country.
  The Global Slavery Index estimated that nearly 46 million people 
across 167 countries were victims of human trafficking in 2016. This 
problem is very real. But here at home, it is also a problem, where we 
have children and young people who are forced or coerced into sex work 
and hard labor in our communities all across the country.
  As America's gateway to Asia, my home State of Hawaii sees an 
unprecedented number of people taken from their homes to be exploited 
here on our shores. In 2010, the FBI freed 400 Thai nationals from a 
Hawaii farm, the largest human trafficking case in our modern history.
  In Hawaii, I know personally of girls as young as 11 and 13 years old 
who were recruited from schools, malls, beaches, and other places, and 
exploited by traffickers. While every State, including Hawaii, has 
passed legislation to ban trafficking and classify it as a felony, 
clearly stronger, further action is needed to combat this modern, 
international slave trade.
  This bill, the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and 
Protection Reauthorization Act, will do many things, including 
expanding programs to help educators recognize and respond to signs of 
human trafficking in minors to try to prevent this abuse and support 
local law enforcement as they identify prosecutors who will focus on 
cases involving sex and slave trafficking.
  I strongly support this legislation and urge my colleagues to vote 
``yes'' to give these innocent men, women, and children a chance for 
safe, proactive, and healthy lives in our communities.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Ohio 
(Mrs. Beatty).
  Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Congresswoman Karen 
Bass of California, for her relentless work, and also my colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle, including Congressman Chris Smith, for 
working on this.
  Mr. Speaker, today is a historic day. I stand on the U.S. House floor 
to advocate for the passage of the Frederick Douglass Trafficking 
Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act.
  I have had many meetings with Kenneth Morris, Frederick Douglass' 
great-great-great-grandson on this issue, sharing with him my work on 
my bill, H.R. 246, from the last Congress, which improves the response 
of victims of child sex trafficking. I am committed to ending human 
trafficking and to ensuring that this bill honoring Frederick Douglass' 
legacy becomes a law.
  The Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection 
Reauthorization Act puts $130 million in funding for the prevention, 
protection, and, yes, prosecution of human trafficking. This investment 
is so needed, Mr. Speaker, because victims of human trafficking often 
live in the shadows of society. That is why it is up to all of us and 
why it is a bipartisan bill.
  This legislation makes an investment in education. We have heard what 
it does with airports and what it does if you have survivors and 
government working together.
  So let me end by reminding all of us that, in the words of Frederick 
Douglass, if we talk about protecting our children and preventing human 
sex trafficking, he would say, as he has said, ``It is easier to build 
strong children'' than to repair a broken system.
  Let us talk about protection. These young girls and boys are 
sometimes held by invisible chains. We are here today to remove those 
chains.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Frankel).
  Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I also give my thanks to Mr. 
Royce; Mr. Smith; and my colleague, Ms. Bass, for their leadership. I 
am very proud to be part of this bipartisan act to stop what we call 
modern-day slavery of men, women, and children.
  Human trafficking is a global crisis of epic proportions. After drug 
trafficking, it is the number two criminal enterprise on Earth. Yes, it 
happens right here in our own backyard.
  Recently, I met Shandra. She is a mother; a college graduate; and 
formerly a banker in Indonesia, until a financial crisis hit. Looking 
for a better life for her family, she came legally to the United 
States, taking what she thought was a job in the hospitality industry. 
The minute she landed in the United States of America, her hopes turned 
into a living hell. It is hard to put what happened to her in words.
  Shandra's new employer held her by force. With threats of violence, 
he drugged her and sold her into prostitution day after day, for years. 
Finally, after multiple attempts to escape, she actually climbed 
through a bathroom window and went to safety.
  Mr. Speaker, shockingly, as we speak here in this room today, there 
are millions of innocent victims like Shandra who are held in some form 
of cruel servitude. Our effort today will save lives and prevent 
horrific suffering. I am proud to be part of these efforts.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from New 
York (Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney).
  Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank my 
colleague and friend for yielding, and I thank her for her 
extraordinary leadership. I would like to be associated with her 
comments describing this horrific crime.
  Human trafficking outpaces drugs and guns as the world's fastest 
growing and most prosperous criminal activity. But unlike guns and 
drugs, which can only be sold once, in trafficking, the human body is 
sold over and over and over again until it kills the person.
  I very strongly support the ending of this modern-day slavery through 
the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection 
Reauthorization Act. I have worked closely with Representative Smith 
since 1995,

[[Page H5503]]

Representative Poe, Representative Wagner, and others, to combat this 
despicable crime.
  This legislation, first passed in 2000, revolutionized U.S. efforts 
against trafficking here and abroad. It included language I offered 
targeting traffic on the demand side, which is very important and key 
to punishing the real criminals here: pimps, johns, and traffickers who 
buy and sell their victims.
  This legislation makes improvements to programs and policies that 
combat trafficking here and around the world. It helps law enforcement 
in their efforts to prosecute, which is growing. It improves 
professional training to identify potential trafficking victims and 
provides services to enable survivors to rebuild their lives with 
dignity.
  Perpetrators of modern-day slavery are profiting to the tune of $150 
billion a year. We need a coordinated, comprehensive approach to stop 
it.
  I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes.'' This bill saves lives. 
It is important. I am thrilled to be part of the effort to combat human 
trafficking in our world.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California (Mrs. Davis).
  Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Chris 
Smith and Karen Bass, for spearheading this important bill and for 
really putting tremendous energy into it.
  Mr. Speaker, far too often, it is our children who fall victim to the 
horror of human trafficking. As you have heard this afternoon, we must 
do everything that we can to stop this injustice.
  Often it has been said of human trafficking that it is hiding in 
plain sight. Advocates and survivors are always telling me that it is 
important to punish traffickers, but we also need to focus on 
prevention.
  The reauthorization of the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims 
Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act strengthens what we need 
in this holistic approach. It includes my bill, the Empowering 
Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act. This language in the bill creates 
a training program that I think you have heard about that empowers 
educators to spot the signs of trafficking and, in turn, teach their 
students how to protect themselves from becoming victims.
  With the passage of this bill, our schools can join the resistance in 
the fight against trafficking. Armed with knowledge, students and 
teachers can join the battle lines against the injustice of modern-day 
slavery.
  I want to thank all those who have participated in this bill, and I 
urge my colleagues to support it.

                              {time}  1630

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the author of this important 
legislation, Mr. Chris Smith; and I thank Chairman Royce for bringing 
it to the floor. I support this bill and I encourage my colleagues to 
do so as well.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back that balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  I would just mention, Mr. Speaker, that 20 years ago, human 
trafficking was unknown, I think, to most Americans and there was 
little public awareness of the severity of what we are calling here 
today modern-day slavery.
  Seventeen years ago, Congress led on this issue by passing the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Act. We had very strong bipartisan 
support, and the rankings, the sanctions, the programs created by that 
law have been instrumental in building the momentum and awareness that 
exists out there today. And with each reauthorization, those laws have 
been fine-tuned, they have been strengthened. This bill continues that 
tradition. It is time to recommit ourselves to this noble fight against 
slave-like labor and sexual exploitation of underage children.
  I have asked some of the victims why it is that so many of these 
criminal gangs move from drug running and other kinds of activity into 
this kind of behavior, and part of the response is: Because, you know, 
in a drug war, a gang member can get himself killed, but it is a lot 
easier to exploit a 14-year-old underage girl, it is a lot easier to be 
in that kind of business than it is in the more dangerous business.
  We have got to overcompensate for this reality by passing legislation 
which allows these additional tools to be used to close down these 
criminal syndicates and to create real deterrence for those gang 
members who consider going into this line of work.
  So I thank Mr. Smith, Congresswoman Karen Bass, and all my fellow 
cosponsors on this bill. It deserves our strong support.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2200, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



