

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2487]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    TRIBUTE TO COLONEL SCOTT JACKSON

  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, today I wish to thank COL Scott Jackson 
for his exemplary service and outstanding leadership as the chief of 
the Army's Senate Liaison Division. During his tenure with the Office 
of the Chief Legislation Liaison, Scott was able to bring more than 24 
years of experience in various leadership and staff positions to 
provide superior support to the work of the U.S. Senate. Additionally, 
I congratulate Scott on his recent selection to command the Army's 
first Security Force Assistance Brigade at Fort Benning, GA.
  In support of the global war on terror, Scott has deployed to Iraq 
three times, for a cumulative 41 months. In 2003, he served as the lead 
operational planner for the First Cavalry Division, writing the initial 
counterinsurgency campaign plan for Baghdad; subsequently assigned as 
the executive officer for 2nd Battalion 7th Cavalry Regiment and 
participated in its assault into Najaf, Iraq, August 2004, and 
Fallujah, Iraq, November 2004. In 2006-2008, he served as the 3rd Heavy 
Brigade Combat Team, First Cavalry Division, deputy brigade commander 
with duty as the deputy team leader, Diyala Provincial Reconstruction 
Team, where he was the governance team leader and senior coalition 
adviser to the governor of Diyala, providing daily coaching, 
mentorship, and liaison to the provincial governor.
  In April 2008, Scott assumed command of 1st Battalion 5th Cavalry 
Regiment and deployed his battalion in January 2009, assuming 
responsibility for coalition operations in the Baghdad districts of 
Adamiyah, Rusafa, and Taji. During this deployment, his battalion 
executed the coalition withdrawal from the cities and transition of 
responsibility to the Iraqi Security Forces.
  Following command, Scott was selected to be the assistant chief of 
staff, G3, Operations and Plans, for the First Cavalry Division and 
subsequently selected as an Army War College fellow at the MIT Lincoln 
Laboratory. While at Lincoln Laboratory, Scott focused his research on 
how technology enables the application of strategy, producing an 
original research project entitled, ``An Operational Design Concept for 
Wide Area Persistent Biometric Surveillance.''
  Following the War College, Scott served as the 3rd Infantry Division, 
Rear chief of staff, while the headquarters was deployed in support of 
Operation Enduring Freedom. He then went on to assume command of the 
2nd Armored Brigade Combat Team, SPARTANS, at Fort Stewart, GA, from 
2013 to 2015.
  Scott's humble character rarely does justice to his accomplishments 
and accolades. However, he does speak very proudly of his wife, 
Valerie, and their sons, Benjamin and William. Military families are 
true testaments of both strength and pride. They are constantly 
challenged by deployments, changes in duty stations, and uncertainties. 
These hurdles create resiliency that the Jackson family patriotically 
embodies. Scott's family are his pride and joy and will equally be 
missed by everyone they have inspired during their time here.
  While we will miss having Scott's support and counsel here in the 
Senate, I know that he will be moving on to greater things. I want to 
again thank Scott and his family for their service to our great Nation 
and congratulate him for his selection to command the Army's newest 
brigade at Fort Benning.

                          ____________________



