

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2855]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           ARMENIAN GENOCIDE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Costa) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join the Armenian community 
in commemorating the 102nd anniversary of the Armenian genocide.
  On April 24, 1915, the Ottoman Empire began committing atrocities 
that would result in the first genocide of the 20th century. Between 
1915 and 1923, 1\1/2\ million Armenians were systematically deported 
from their homes and sent to their death on marches through the Syrian 
Desert. That is a fact.
  My district, located in California's San Joaquin Valley, is the land 
of William Saroyan and the resting place of Soghomon Terlirian, a hero 
of the Armenian people. It is also home to the only Armenian genocide 
monument on a college campus in the Nation at Fresno State University, 
my alma mater. It is a campus that has a storied Armenian Studies 
program known throughout the country and is a sister university to the 
American University of Armenia.
  The San Joaquin Valley of California is also one of the earliest 
settling places for thousands of survivors and their families as part 
of the diaspora as a result of the genocide. Many still live there 
today and call the valley their home.

  I was honored to visit Armenia this past year to meet with its people 
and leaders. I was truly humbled to visit the Armenian genocide 
memorial in Yerevan. We have seen religious and civic leaders from all 
around the world recognize the Armenian genocide and ensure that this 
tragedy is never ever forgotten.
  I am very disappointed and saddened that another year has passed 
without the President of the United States or the Congress recognizing 
the events of 1915 as genocide. We cannot move forward free of genocide 
without recognizing the first genocide of the 20th century. So I ask my 
colleagues to please join me in recognizing the lives of 1\1/2\ million 
victims and their families.
  It is always said that now is not the right time because of our 
relationship with Turkey as they become, like this country, less 
democratic as a result of recent elections. I reject that view. If we 
do not recognize the genocide now, then when?
  I stand with Armenians all over the world to say ``menk' ch'yenk' 
morranum.'' We will not forget.


                       Recognizing Paul Jamushian

  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the service and 
advocacy of Mr. Paul Jamushian, as the 16th Congressional District's 
Hero of the Month in California.
  As a descendant of both martyrs and survivors of the Armenian 
genocide, Paul has been an advocate for the Armenian cause and for 
genocide recognition for over 50 years. As a member of the Armenian 
National Committee of America, he has led efforts throughout the 
country to advocate and educate residents and people of the atrocities 
of 1915.
  I have been proud to call Paul a friend and a partner in what has 
been a mutual commitment to ensure that the Armenian genocide is never 
forgotten. His efforts have led to the Armenian genocide being formally 
recognized by numerous cities, counties, and State governing bodies.
  While in my district, his efforts, along with those of numerous 
others in the Armenian community, have led to this beautiful Armenian 
genocide monument on the campus of Fresno State University as you see 
here.
  Paul is the embodiment of the community of Armenian Americans 
throughout the country who have not only survived, but have gone on to 
thrive post-genocide and contribute time and time again to our country. 
It is my honor to recognize Paul as the Hero of the Month for the 16th 
Congressional District in California this month, especially during this 
week of remembrance for the 102nd anniversary of the Armenian genocide.
  Let us never ever forget.

                          ____________________



