

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6540]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                 VA SENIOR EXECUTIVE ACCOUNTABILITY ACT

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 2772) to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
provide for requirements relating to the reassignment of Department of 
Veterans Affairs senior executive employees, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2772

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``VA Senior Executive 
     Accountability Act'' or the ``SEA Act''.

     SEC. 2. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON REASSIGNMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF 
                   VETERANS AFFAIRS SENIOR EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES.

       (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 7 of title 38, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 723. Reassignment of senior executives

       ``(a) Approval of Reassignments.--No individual employed in 
     a senior executive position at the Department may be 
     reassigned to another such position at the Department unless 
     such reassignment is approved in writing and signed by the 
     Secretary.
       ``(b) Semiannual Reports Required.--Not later than June 30 
     and December 31 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to 
     Congress a report on the reassignment of individuals employed 
     in senior executive positions at the Department to other such 
     positions at the Department during the period covered by the 
     report. Each such report shall describe the purpose of each 
     such reassignment and the costs associated with such 
     reassignment.
       ``(c) Senior Executive Position Defined.--In this section, 
     the term `senior executive position' has the meaning given 
     such term in section 713(g)(3) of this title.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 723 the following new item:

``724. Reassignment of senior executives.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Roe) and the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Walz) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2772, as amended, the VA 
Senior Executive Accountability Act, or SEA Act. This bill would 
provide needed transparency of the Department of Veterans Affairs' 
reassignment of members of the Senior Executive Service. Specifically, 
the bill would require the Secretary to personally approve of a 
reassignment of VA's approximately 350 SES employees.
  It would also require VA to report to Congress identifying those 
employees who are reassigned and the cost associated with 
reassignments.
  I thank Representative Taylor for his thoughtful legislation. And 
with that, Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in 
supporting H.R. 2772.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2772, the VA Senior Executive 
Accountability Act. Mr. Speaker, this is a commonsense bill that has 
received bipartisan support as it moved through regular order of our 
committee.
  This bill requires that any reassignment of a senior executive at the 
VA have the Secretary's written approval. It also requires an annual 
report to Congress to help us in our oversight ability.
  I have dealt with this issue myself in Minnesota and know firsthand 
how important this is.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Mr. Taylor and our vice ranking 
member, Mr. Takano, for developing this legislation. I support and 
encourage Members to join in its support.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Taylor), the author of this bill and a Navy SEAL.
  Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 2772, the 
VA Senior Executive Accountability Act.
  This bipartisan bill brings transparency and accountability to senior 
VA leadership.
  Mr. Speaker, my area has the fastest growing veterans population in 
the Nation. Our OIF, our OEF, and our women's veterans population is 
rapidly growing.
  Recently, our main VA hospital was rated at a one-star out of a five-
star rating. In making a change, the VA simply swapped out the 
underperforming leadership with another VA hospital.
  This, Mr. Speaker, is unacceptable.
  My bill would require the VA to issue reports on any reassignment of 
VA leadership and how much the cost is. Additionally, the Secretary of 
the VA would have to personally sign off on the reassignment.
  Mr. Speaker, veterans need to trust that they are getting the best 
care possible. They need to trust that they will have transparency. 
They need to trust that there will be accountability.
  I want to thank the chairman, the ranking member, and all those on 
the committee for their work, their dedication, and their commitment to 
upholding our sacred responsibility of care for those who upheld their 
own sacred responsibility to our Nation.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am prepared 
to close at this time.
  Mr. Speaker, again, commonsense bill, bipartisan, does the right 
thing, and, as the gentleman so clearly explained, providing that trust 
to our veterans is absolutely critical. I believe this will do that. I 
urge my colleagues to support passage of H.R. 2772.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all 
Members to support this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 2772, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



