

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3961-S3962]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to establish a public health 
insurance option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to 
require continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the 
Annual Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic 
incidents in Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish 
communities, and the efforts of the United States to partner with 
European governments, the European Union, and civil society groups, to 
combat anti-Semitism, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 281

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 281, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the per-country numerical 
limitation for employment-based immigrants, to increase the per-country 
numerical limitation for family-sponsored immigrants, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental 
discrimination against providers of health services that are not 
involved in abortion.


                                 S. 397

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 397, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure fairness in 
Medicare hospital payments by establishing a floor for the area wage 
index applied with respect to certain hospitals.


                                 S. 690

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 690, a bill to extend the eligibility of redesignated 
areas as HUBZones from 3 years to 7 years.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, supra.


                                 S. 925

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 925, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the ability of health care 
professionals to treat veterans through the use of telemedicine, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 945

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 945, a bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical 
Education Act of 2006 to authorize funds to identify and eliminate 
excessive occupational licensure.

[[Page S3962]]

  



                                 S. 967

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 967, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to increase access to ambulance services under the 
Medicare program and to reform payments for such services under such 
program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Mr. Cochran, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1068

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1068, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide tax incentives for 
increased investment in clean energy.


                                S. 1104

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1104, a bill to require 
the Federal Communications Commission to establish a methodology for 
the collection by the Commission of information about commercial mobile 
service and commercial mobile data service, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1179

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1179, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to inter in national cemeteries individuals who supported the 
United States in Laos during the Vietnam War era, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator 
from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of 
the Treasury to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th 
anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1292

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1292, a bill to 
amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to monitor and 
combat anti-Semitism globally, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, a bill to 
prioritize the fight against human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable tax 
provisions.


                                S. 1354

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1354, a bill to establish an Individual Market 
Reinsurance fund to provide funding for State individual market 
stabilization reinsurance programs.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, 
nurse practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise 
cardiac, intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1462

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1462, a bill to amend the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to improve cost sharing 
subsidies.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill 
to expand recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine 
fishery conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 201

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 201, a resolution 
affirming the importance of title IX, applauding the increase in 
educational opportunities available to women and girls, and recognizing 
the tremendous amount of work left to be done to further increase those 
opportunities.

                          ____________________



