

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4188]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           MEASURES REFERRED

  The following bills were read the first and the second times by 
unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

       H.R. 282. An act to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief 
     Act to authorize spouses of servicemembers to elect to use 
     the same residences as the servicemembers; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 1058. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the role of podiatrists in the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 1690. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit an annual 
     report regarding performance awards and bonuses awarded to 
     certain high-level employees of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 1848. An act to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program on the use of medical 
     scribes in Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
       H.R. 2006. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the procurement practices of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 2056. An act to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide for expanded participation in the microloan program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business 
     and Entrepreneurship.
       H.R. 2333. An act to amend the Small Business Investment 
     Act of 1958 to increase the amount of leverage made available 
     to small business investment companies; to the Committee on 
     Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
       H.R. 2364. An act to amend the Small Business Investment 
     Act of 1958 to increase the amount that certain banks and 
     savings associations may invest in small business investment 
     companies, subject to the approval of the appropriate Federal 
     banking agency, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
       H.R. 2749. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the oversight of contracts awarded by the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 2781. An act to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to certify the sufficient participation of small 
     business concerns owned and controlled by veterans and small 
     business concerns owned by veterans with service-connected 
     disabilities in contracts under the Federal Strategic 
     Sourcing Initiative, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



