

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5977-H5978]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Garrett, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. Massie, and Mr. Gohmert):
       H.R. 3276. A bill to repeal the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education 
     Reconciliation Act of 2010; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, Education and the Workforce, Natural Resources, the 
     Judiciary, House Administration, Rules, and Appropriations, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS (for himself and Mr. Gohmert):
       H.R. 3277. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow an above-the-line deduction for health 
     insurance premiums; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BIGGS:
       H.R. 3278. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for cooperative governing of individual health 
     insurance coverage; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. COOK:
       H.R. 3279. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to 
     provide that extraction of helium from gas produced under a 
     Federal mineral lease shall maintain the lease as if the 
     helium were oil and gas; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. LAMBORN:
       H.R. 3281. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to facilitate the transfer to non-Federal ownership 
     of appropriate reclamation projects or facilities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BABIN:
       H.R. 3282. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, 
     with respect to electronic logging devices, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. DONOVAN:
       H.R. 3283. A bill to restrict the mailability of tableting 
     machines, encapsulating machines, and controlled substance 
     counterfeiting materials, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 3284. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish a Joint Counterterrorism Awareness Workshop 
     Series, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Johnson 
             of Louisiana, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Sires, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Harper, Mr. Palazzo, and Mr. 
             Payne):
       H.R. 3285. A bill to reauthorize the National Flood 
     Insurance Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN:
       H.R. 3286. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     issue regulations regarding disclosure of oil data, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN:
       H.R. 3287. A bill to require the Director of the 
     Congressional Budget Office to calculate a carbon score for 
     each bill or resolution; to the Committee on Rules, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. Welch, 
             Ms. Pingree, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. 
             Katko, and Ms. Tenney):
       H.R. 3288. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     promote regional economic and infrastructure development, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LATTA:
       H.R. 3289. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to require identification and description on the website of 
     the Federal Communications Commission of items to be decided 
     on authority delegated by the Commission; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself and Mr. Latta):
       H.R. 3290. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     initiate the development of voluntary model pathways for 
     modernizing the electric grid, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan 
             of New Mexico):
       H.R. 3291. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for a State option to provide for maternal, 
     infant, and early childhood home visiting programs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Williams, 
             Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 3292. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to impose a mileage-based user fee for mobile mounted 
     concrete boom pumps in lieu of the tax on taxable fuels, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself and Mr. Lipinski):
       H.R. 3293. A bill to amend section 2533a of title 10, 
     United States Code, to add stainless steel flatware to the 
     list of covered items in such section; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 453. A resolution electing a Member to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia (for himself, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Norton, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, and Mr. Cohen):
       H. Res. 455. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives on Nelson Mandela International Day; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

[[Page H5978]]

  

                          ____________________



