

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2522-S2523]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      RECOGNIZING DESTINATIONS INN

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, our country has been built upon a 
bedrock of guiding principles which has molded the character of many 
Americans. Hard work, risk-taking, and perseverance are some of the 
characteristics that have helped so many of our Nation's citizens 
achieve the American Dream. Continually on the cutting edge of 
innovation, America's entrepreneurs share an inspiring creative spirit. 
As chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship, it is my pleasure to recognize one such entrepreneur, 
Larry Fisher, and his small business, Destinations Inn, as the Senate 
Small Business of the Month for April 2017.
  With a lifelong understanding of business, Mr. Fisher has built many 
successful businesses, including the critically acclaimed Black Swan 
Inn. Acquired in 1997, Mr. Fisher transformed the unique 1933 English 
Tudor into a luxury themed suite lodging facility catering to couples, 
tourists, and business travelers who are looking for a unique 
experience.
  After the success of the Black Swan Inn, the Fishers purchased and 
opened a sister hotel located in Idaho Falls in 2010, the Destinations 
Inn. The building was built in 1905 and has served as host to a number 
of businesses since that time, including the O.P. Skaggs Grocery Store 
and Ferrell's Clothing. In 2006, the Destinations Inn reopened as a 
premier luxury hotel and began to host guests from all over the world. 
When the Fishers acquired the building in 2010, they used their skills 
in artistry and contracting to transform the hotel into a world-class 
themed suite lodging facility. Each of the 14 suites within the 
Destinations Inn is creatively tailored to encapsulate an imaginative 
atmosphere. Combining their talents and vision, Larry and Debbie Fisher 
have created a business environment where creativity and ideas thrive. 
The Fishers exemplify professionalism and entrepreneurial passion 
through the success of the Destinations Inn.
  Born and raised in Pocatello, ID, Mr. Fisher has been a mainstay in 
his community since his early years. Mr. Fisher currently serves on 
numerous boards and committees, including the Pocatello Development 
Authority, Grand Teton Council of the Boy Scouts of America, and 
Portneuf Valley Interfaith Fellowship. Recognized for his commitment to 
the community, Mr.

[[Page S2523]]

Fisher was a recipient of a number of awards, including Parade of Homes 
Best Show, Builder of the Year, Bridge Builder Award from the Grand 
Teton Council of the Boy Scouts of America, voted as best lodging 
property several years by the community, TripAdvisor Hall of Fame Award 
for 5 years of certificates of excellence, and the Community Black Belt 
Volunteer Award. Mr. Fisher has dedicated his life to serving his 
customers and the community. It is my honor to recognize Larry and 
Debbie Fisher and the employees of Destinations Inn who have done so 
much for their community. You make our State proud, and I look forward 
to watching your continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



