

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6158-H6170]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      HARRY W. COLMERY VETERANS EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2017

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 3218) to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
make certain improvements in the laws administered by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3218

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Harry W. 
     Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References to title 38, United States Code.

           TITLE I--POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

Sec. 101. Consideration of certain time spent receiving medical care 
              from Secretary of Defense as active duty for purposes of 
              eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational Assistance.
Sec. 102. Educational assistance under Post-9/11 Educational Assistance 
              Program for members of the Armed Forces awarded the 
              Purple Heart.
Sec. 103. Inclusion of Fry Scholarship recipients and Purple Heart 
              recipients in Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement 
              Program.
Sec. 104. Inclusion of certain members of the Armed Forces serving on 
              active duty in Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement 
              Program.
Sec. 105. Consolidation of certain eligibility tiers under Post-9/11 
              Educational Assistance Program of the Department of 
              Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 106. Eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational Assistance for certain 
              members of reserve components of Armed Forces who lost 
              entitlement to educational assistance under Reserve 
              Educational Assistance Program.
Sec. 107. Calculation of monthly housing stipend under Post-9/11 
              Educational Assistance Program based on location of 
              campus where classes are attended.
Sec. 108. Charge to entitlement for certain licensure and certification 
              tests and national tests under Department of Veterans 
              Affairs Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program.
Sec. 109. Restoration of entitlement to educational assistance and 
              other relief for veterans affected by school closure or 
              disapproval.
Sec. 110. Additional authorized transfer of unused Post-9/11 
              Educational Assistance benefits to dependents upon death 
              of originally designated dependent.
Sec. 111. Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship.
Sec. 112. Honoring the national service of members of the Armed Forces 
              by elimination of time limitation for use of entitlement.
Sec. 113. Monthly stipend for certain members of the reserve components 
              of the Armed Forces receiving Post-9/11 Educational 
              Assistance.
Sec. 114. Annual reports to Congress on information on student progress 
              submitted by educational institutions.
Sec. 115. Improvement of information technology of the veterans 
              benefits administration of the Department of Veterans 
              Affairs.
Sec. 116. Department of Veterans Affairs high technology pilot program.

            TITLE II--OTHER EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

Sec. 201. Work-study allowance.
Sec. 202. Duration of educational assistance under Survivors' and 
              Dependents' Educational Assistance Program.
Sec. 203. Olin E. Teague increase in amounts of educational assistance 
              payable under Survivors' and Dependents' Educational 
              Assistance Program.

      TITLE III--ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

Sec. 301. State approving agency funding.
Sec. 302. Authorization for use of Post-9/11 Educational Assistance to 
              pursue independent study programs at certain educational 
              institutions that are not institutions of higher 
              learning.
Sec. 303. Provision of information on priority enrollment for veterans 
              in certain courses of education.
Sec. 304. Limitation on use of reporting fees payable to educational 
              institutions and sponsors of programs of apprenticeship.
Sec. 305. Training for school certifying officials.
Sec. 306. Extension of authority for Advisory Committee on Education.
Sec. 307. Department of Veterans Affairs provision of on-campus 
              educational and vocational counseling for veterans.
Sec. 308. Provision of information regarding veteran entitlement to 
              educational assistance.
Sec. 309. Treatment, for purposes of educational assistance 
              administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, of 
              educational courses that begin seven or fewer days after 
              the first day of an academic term.
Sec. 310. Inclusion of risk-based reviews in State approving agency 
              oversight activities.
Sec. 311. Comptroller General study of State approving agency 
              performance.

                  TITLE IV--RESERVE COMPONENT BENEFITS

Sec. 401. Eligibility of reserve component members for Post-9/11 
              Educational Assistance.
Sec. 402. Time limitation for training and rehabilitation for veterans 
              with service-connected disabilities.

                         TITLE V--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 501. Repeal inapplicability of modification of basic allowance for 
              housing to benefits under laws administered by Secretary 
              of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 502. Reconsideration of previously denied claims for disability 
              compensation for veterans who allege full-body exposure 
              to nitrogen mustard gas, sulfur mustard gas, or Lewisite 
              during World War II.

     SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.

        Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this 
     Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an 
     amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the 
     reference shall be considered to be made to a section or 
     other provision of title 38, United States Code.

[[Page H6159]]

  


           TITLE I--POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

     SEC. 101. CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN TIME SPENT RECEIVING 
                   MEDICAL CARE FROM SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AS 
                   ACTIVE DUTY FOR PURPOSES OF ELIGIBILITY FOR 
                   POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

       (a) In General.--Section 3301(1)(B) is amended by inserting 
     ``12301(h),'' after ``12301(g),''.
       (b) Retroactive Application.--The amendment made by 
     subsection (a) shall apply with respect to service in the 
     Armed Forces occurring on or after September 11, 2001.
       (c) Application With Respect to Use of Entitlement.--An 
     individual who is entitled to educational assistance by 
     reason of the amendment made by subsection (a) may use such 
     entitlement to pursue a course of education beginning on or 
     after August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 102. EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE UNDER POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL 
                   ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES AWARDED THE PURPLE HEART.

       (a) Eligibility.--Section 3311(b) is amended by adding at 
     the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(10) An individual who is awarded the Purple Heart for 
     service in the Armed Forces occurring on or after September 
     11, 2001, and continues to serve on active duty in the Armed 
     Forces or is discharged or released from active duty as 
     described in subsection (c).''.
       (b) Amount of Assistance.--Section 3313(c)(1) is amended by 
     striking ``or (9)'' and inserting ``(9), or (10)''.
       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 103. INCLUSION OF FRY SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENTS AND PURPLE 
                   HEART RECIPIENTS IN YELLOW RIBBON G.I. 
                   EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Section 3317(a) is amended, in the second 
     sentence, by striking ``paragraphs (1) and (2)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (1), (2), (9), and (10)''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 104. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
                   SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY IN YELLOW RIBBON G.I. 
                   EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Section 3317(a) is amended, in the first 
     sentence, by striking ``section 3313(c)(1)(A)'' and inserting 
     ``subsection (c)(1)(A) or (e)(2)(A) of section 3313 of this 
     title''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on August 1, 2022.

     SEC. 105. CONSOLIDATION OF CERTAIN ELIGIBILITY TIERS UNDER 
                   POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

       (a) Entitlement.--Section 3311(b), as amended by section 
     102, is further amended--
       (1) in paragraph (6)(A), by striking ``12 months'' and 
     inserting ``6 months'';
       (2) by striking paragraph (7); and
       (3) by redesignating paragraphs (8), (9), and (10) as 
     paragraphs (7), (8), and (9), respectively.
       (b) Amount of Educational Assistance.--Section 3313(c) is 
     amended by striking paragraph (7).
       (c) Conforming Amendments.--Chapter 33 is further amended 
     as follows:
       (1) In section 3311(f), by striking ``paragraph (9)'' each 
     place it appears and inserting ``paragraph (8)''.
       (2) In section 3313, as amended by section 102--
       (A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``(9), or (10)'' and 
     inserting ``(8), or (9)'';
       (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``paragraphs (2) through 
     (7)'' each place it appears and inserting ``paragraphs (2) 
     through (6)'';
       (C) in subsection (e)(2)(C)--
       (i) by striking ``paragraphs (3) through (8)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (3) through (7)''; and
       (ii) by striking ``paragraphs (2) through (7)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)''.
       (D) in subsection (f)(2)(A)(ii), by striking ``paragraphs 
     (2) through (7)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2) through 
     (6)'';
       (E) in subsection (g)(3)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A)(iv)--

       (I) by striking ``paragraphs (3) through (8)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (3) through (7)''; and
       (II) by striking ``paragraphs (2) through (7)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)'';

       (ii) in subparagraph (B)(iii)--

       (I) by striking ``paragraphs (3) through (8)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (3) through (7)''; and
       (II) by striking ``paragraphs (2) through (7)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)'';

       (iii) in subparagraph (C)(ii)--

       (I) in subclause (I), by striking ``(9)'' and inserting 
     ``(8)''; and
       (II) in subclause (II)--

       (aa) by striking ``paragraphs (3) through (8)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (3) through (7)''; and
       (bb) by striking ``paragraphs (2) through (7)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)''; and
       (iv) in subparagraph (D)(ii)--

       (I) in subclause (I), by striking ``(9)'' and inserting 
     ``(8)''; and
       (II) in subclause (II)--

       (aa) by striking ``paragraphs (3) through (8)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (3) through (7)''; and
       (bb) by striking ``paragraphs (2) through (7)'' and 
     inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)''; and
       (F) in subsection (h), by striking ``paragraphs (2) through 
     (7)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)'';
       (3) In section 3316--
       (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``paragraphs (2) 
     through (7)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)''; 
     and
       (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``paragraphs (2) 
     through (7)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)''.
       (4) In section 3317(a), in the second sentence, as amended 
     by section 103, by striking ``paragraphs (1), (2), (9), and 
     (10)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1), (2), (8), and (9)''.
       (5) In section 3321(b)(4), as amended by section 112, by 
     striking ``section 3311(b)(9)'' and inserting ``section 
     3311(b)(8)''.
       (6) In section 3322--
       (A) in subsection (e), by striking ``3311(b)(9)'' and 
     inserting ``3311(b)(8)'';
       (B) in subsection (f), by striking ``3311(b)(9)'' and 
     inserting ``3311(b)(8)''; and
       (C) in subsection (h)(2), by striking ``3311(b)(9)'' and 
     inserting ``3311(b)(8)''.
       (7) In section 3679(c)(2)(B), by striking ``3311(b)(9)'' 
     and inserting ``3311(b)(8)''.
       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on August 1, 2020.

     SEC. 106. ELIGIBILITY FOR POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 
                   FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS OF 
                   ARMED FORCES WHO LOST ENTITLEMENT TO 
                   EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE UNDER RESERVE 
                   EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

       (a) Election.--Section 16167 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(c) Eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational Assistance.--A 
     member who loses eligibility for benefits under this chapter 
     pursuant to subsection (b) shall be allowed to elect (in such 
     form and manner as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
     prescribe) to have such service previously credited toward 
     this chapter credited towards establishing eligibility for 
     educational assistance under chapter 33 of title 38, 
     notwithstanding the provisions of section 16163(e) of this 
     title or section 3322(h)(1) of title 38.''.
       (b) Qualification of Service.--Section 3301(1) of title 38, 
     United States Code, shall be construed to include, in the 
     case of a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces 
     who, before November 25, 2015, established eligibility for 
     educational assistance under chapter 1607 of title 10, United 
     States Code, pursuant to section 16163(a)(1) of such title, 
     but lost eligibility for such educational assistance pursuant 
     to section 16167(b) of such title, service on active duty (as 
     defined in section 101 of such title) that satisfies the 
     requirements of section 16163(a)(1) of such title.
       (c) Entitlement.--Section 3311(b)(6) of title 38, United 
     States Code, shall be construed to include an individual who, 
     before November 25, 2015, established eligibility for 
     educational assistance under chapter 1607 of title 10, United 
     States Code, pursuant to section 16163(b) of such title, but 
     lost such eligibility pursuant to section 16167(b) of such 
     title.
       (d) Duration.--Notwithstanding section 3312 of title 38, 
     United States Code, an individual who establishes eligibility 
     for educational assistance under chapter 33 of such title by 
     crediting towards such chapter service previously credited 
     towards chapter 1607 of title 10, United States Code, is only 
     entitled to a number of months of educational assistance 
     under section 3313 of title 38, United States Code, equal to 
     the number of months of entitlement remaining under chapter 
     1607 of title 10, United States Code, at the time of 
     conversion to chapter 33 of title 38, United States Code.

     SEC. 107. CALCULATION OF MONTHLY HOUSING STIPEND UNDER POST-
                   9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM BASED ON 
                   LOCATION OF CAMPUS WHERE CLASSES ARE ATTENDED.

       (a) In General.--Section 3313(c)(1)(B)(i)(I) is amended by 
     striking ``the institution of higher learning at which the 
     individual is enrolled'' and inserting ``the campus of the 
     institution of higher learning where the individual 
     physically participates in a majority of classes''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply with respect to initial enrollment in a program 
     of education on or after August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 108. CHARGE TO ENTITLEMENT FOR CERTAIN LICENSURE AND 
                   CERTIFICATION TESTS AND NATIONAL TESTS UNDER 
                   DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS POST-9/11 
                   EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

       (a) Licensure and Certification Tests.--Subsection (c) of 
     section 3315 is amended--
       (1) by striking ``shall be determined at the rate of one 
     month (rounded to the nearest whole month)'' and inserting 
     ``shall be pro-rated based on the actual amount of the fee 
     charged for the test relative to the rate for one month''; 
     and

[[Page H6160]]

       (2) by striking ``for each amount paid that equals'' and 
     inserting ``payable''.
       (b) National Tests.--Section 3315A is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3) A national test that evaluates prior learning and 
     knowledge and provides an opportunity for course credit at an 
     institution of higher learning as so described.''; and
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) by striking ``shall be determined at the rate of one 
     month (rounded to the nearest whole month)'' and inserting 
     ``shall be pro-rated based on the actual amount of the fee 
     charged for the test relative to the rate for one month''; 
     and
       (B) by striking ``for each amount paid that equals'' and 
     inserting ``payable''.
       (c) Tests Included.--Section 3452(b) is amended in the last 
     sentence--
       (1) by striking ``and national tests providing'' and 
     inserting ``, national tests providing''; and
       (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``, and national tests that evaluate prior 
     learning and knowledge and provides an opportunity for course 
     credit at an institution of higher learning''.
       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this Act shall 
     apply to a test taken on or after August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 109. RESTORATION OF ENTITLEMENT TO EDUCATIONAL 
                   ASSISTANCE AND OTHER RELIEF FOR VETERANS 
                   AFFECTED BY SCHOOL CLOSURE OR DISAPPROVAL.

       (a) School Closure or Disapproval.--
       (1) Restoration of entitlement.--Chapter 36 is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 3699. Effects of closure or disapproval of educational 
       institution

       ``(a) Closure or Disapproval.--Any payment of educational 
     assistance described in subsection (b) shall not--
       ``(1) be charged against any entitlement to educational 
     assistance of the individual concerned; or
       ``(2) be counted against the aggregate period for which 
     section 3695 of this title limits the receipt of educational 
     assistance by such individual.
       ``(b) Educational Assistance Described.--Subject to 
     subsection (c), the payment of educational assistance 
     described in this paragraph is the payment of such assistance 
     to an individual for pursuit of a course or program of 
     education at an educational institution under chapters 30, 
     32, 33, or 35 of this title, or chapters 1606 or 1607 of 
     title 10, if the Secretary determines that the individual--
       ``(1) was unable to complete such course or program as a 
     result of--
       ``(A) the closure of the educational institution; or
       ``(B) the disapproval of the course or a course that is a 
     necessary part of that program under this chapter by reason 
     of--
       ``(i) a provision of law enacted after the date on which 
     the individual enrolls at such institution affecting the 
     approval or disapproval of courses under this chapter; or
       ``(ii) after the date on which the individual enrolls at 
     such institution, the Secretary prescribing or modifying 
     regulations or policies of the Department affecting such 
     approval or disapproval; and
       ``(2) did not receive credit or lost training time, toward 
     completion of the program of education being so pursued.
       ``(c) Period Not Charged.--The period for which, by reason 
     of this subsection, educational assistance is not charged 
     against entitlement or counted toward the applicable 
     aggregate period under section 3695 of this title shall not 
     exceed the aggregate of--
       ``(1) the portion of the period of enrollment in the course 
     from which the individual did not receive credit or with 
     respect to which the individual lost training time, as 
     determined under subsection (b)(2), and
       ``(2) the period by which a monthly stipend is extended 
     under section 3680(a)(2)(B) of this title.
       ``(d) Continuing Pursuit of Disapproved Courses.--(1) The 
     Secretary may treat a course of education that is disapproved 
     under this chapter as being approved under this chapter with 
     respect to an individual described in paragraph (2) if the 
     Secretary determines, on a case-by-case basis, that--
       ``(A) such disapproval is the result of an action described 
     in clause (i) or (ii) of subsection (b)(1)(B); and
       ``(B) continuing pursuing such course is in the best 
     interest of the individual.
       ``(2) An individual described in this paragraph is an 
     individual who is pursuing a course of education at an 
     educational institution under chapters 30, 32, 33, or 35 of 
     this title, or chapters 1606 or 1607 of title 10, as of the 
     date on which the course is disapproved under this chapter.
       ``(e) Notice of Closures.--Not later than five business 
     days after the date on which the Secretary receives notice 
     that an educational institution will close or is closed, the 
     Secretary shall provide to each individual who is enrolled in 
     a course or program or education at such educational 
     institution using entitlement to educational assistance under 
     chapter 30, 32, 33, or 35 of this title, or chapter 1606 or 
     1607 of title 10, notice of--
       ``(1) such closure and the date of such closure; and
       ``(2) the effect of such closure on the individual's 
     entitlement to educational assistance pursuant to this 
     section.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 3698 the following new item:

``3699. Effects of closure or disapproval of educational 
              institution.''.
       (b) Monthly Housing Stipend.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection (a) section 3680 is amended--
       (A) by striking the matter after paragraph (3)(B);
       (B) in paragraph (3), by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
     and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively;
       (C) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
     subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively;
       (D) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), as 
     redesignated, in the first sentence, by striking ``Payment 
     of'' and inserting ``(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
     payment of''; and
       (E) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (2):
       ``(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary may, 
     pursuant to such regulations as the Secretary shall 
     prescribe, continue to pay allowances to eligible veterans 
     and eligible persons enrolled in courses set forth in 
     paragraph (1)(A)--
       ``(A) during periods when educational institutions are 
     temporarily closed under an established policy based on an 
     Executive order of the President or due to an emergency 
     situation, except that the total number of weeks for which 
     allowances may continue to be so payable in any 12-month 
     period may not exceed four weeks; or
       ``(B) solely for the purpose of awarding a monthly housing 
     stipend described in section 3313 of this title, during 
     periods following a permanent closure of an educational 
     institution, or following the disapproval of a course of 
     study described in section 3699(b)(1)(B) of this title, 
     except that payment of such a stipend may only be continued 
     until the earlier of--
       ``(i) the date of the end of the term, quarter, or semester 
     during which the closure or disapproval occurred; and
       ``(ii) the date that is 120 days after the date of the 
     closure or disapproval.''.
       (2) Conforming amendment.--Paragraph (1)(C)(ii) of such 
     subsection, as redesignated, is amended by striking 
     ``described in subclause (A) of this clause'' and inserting 
     ``described in clause (i)''.
       (c) Applicability.--
       (1) School closure or disapproval.--
       (A) In general.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to 
     courses and programs of education discontinued as described 
     in section 3699 of title 38, United States Code, as added by 
     subsection (a)(1), after January 1, 2015.
       (B) Special application.--With respect to courses and 
     programs of education discontinued as described in section 
     3699 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection 
     (a)(1), during the period beginning January 1, 2015, and 
     ending on the date of the enactment of this Act, an 
     individual who does not transfer credits from such program of 
     education shall be deemed to be an individual who did not 
     receive such credits, as described in subsection (b)(2) of 
     such section, except that the period for which the 
     individual's entitlement is not charged shall be the entire 
     period of the individual's enrollment in the program of 
     education. In carrying out this paragraph, the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of 
     Education, shall establish procedures to determine whether 
     the individual transferred credits to a comparable course or 
     program of education.
       (2) Monthly housing stipend.--The amendments made by 
     subsection (b) shall take effect on August 1, 2018, and shall 
     apply with respect to courses and programs of education 
     discontinued as described in section 3699 of title 38, United 
     States Code, as added by such subsection, on or after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 110. ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZED TRANSFER OF UNUSED POST-9/11 
                   EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE BENEFITS TO DEPENDENTS 
                   UPON DEATH OF ORIGINALLY DESIGNATED DEPENDENT.

       (a) Transfer Upon Death of Dependent.--Section 3319 is 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (f)(1), by inserting after ``section 
     3321'' the following: ``, and except as provided in 
     subsection (k) or (l),''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(k) Additional Transfer Upon Death of Dependent.--In the 
     case of a dependent to whom entitlement to educational 
     assistance is transferred under this section who dies before 
     using all of such entitlement, the individual who transferred 
     the entitlement to the dependent may transfer any remaining 
     entitlement to a different eligible dependent, 
     notwithstanding whether the individual is serving as a member 
     of the Armed Forces when such transfer is executed.
       ``(l) Transfer by Dependent.--In the case of an individual 
     who transfers entitlement to educational assistance under 
     this section who dies before the dependent to whom 
     entitlement to educational assistance is so transferred has 
     used all of such entitlement, such dependent may transfer 
     such entitlement to another eligible dependent in accordance 
     with the provisions of this section.''.
       (b) Effective Dates.--
       (1) Eligible deaths.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply with respect to deaths occurring on or after 
     August 1, 2009.

[[Page H6161]]

       (2) Use of entitlement.--A dependent to whom entitlement to 
     educational assistance is transferred under subsection (k) or 
     (l) of section 3319 of title 38, United States Code, as added 
     by subsection (a), may use such entitlement to pursue a 
     course of education beginning on or after August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 111. EDITH NOURSE ROGERS STEM SCHOLARSHIP.

        (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 33 is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 3320. Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship

       ``(a) In General.--Subject to the limitation under 
     subsection (f), the Secretary shall provide additional 
     benefits to eligible individuals selected by the Secretary 
     under this section. Such benefits shall be known as the 
     `Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship'.
       ``(b) Eligibility.--For purposes of this section, an 
     eligible individual is an individual--
       ``(1) who is or was entitled to educational assistance 
     under section 3311 of this title;
       ``(2) who has used all of the educational assistance to 
     which the individual is entitled under this chapter or will, 
     based on the individual's rate of usage, use all of such 
     assistance within 180 days of applying for benefits under 
     this section;
       ``(3) who applies for assistance under this section; and
       ``(4) who--
       ``(A) is an individual who--
       ``(i) is enrolled in a program of education leading to a 
     post-secondary degree that, in accordance with the guidelines 
     of the applicable regional or national accrediting agency, 
     requires more than the standard 128 semester (or 192 quarter) 
     credit hours for completion in a standard, undergraduate 
     college degree in--

       ``(I) biological or biomedical science;
       ``(II) physical science;
       ``(III) science technologies or technicians;
       ``(IV) computer and information science and support 
     services;
       ``(V) mathematics or statistics;
       ``(VI) engineering;
       ``(VII) engineering technologies or an engineering-related 
     field;
       ``(VIII) a health profession or related program;
       ``(IX) a medical residency program;
       ``(X) an agriculture science program or a natural resources 
     science program; or
       ``(XI) other subjects and fields identified by the 
     Secretary as meeting national needs;

       ``(ii) has completed at least 60 standard semester (or 90 
     quarter) credit hours in a field referred to in clause (i); 
     or
       ``(B) is an individual who has earned a post-secondary 
     degree in a field referred to in subparagraph (A)(i) and is 
     enrolled in a program of education leading to a teaching 
     certification.
       ``(c) Priority.--In selecting eligible individuals to 
     receive additional benefits under this section, the Secretary 
     shall give priority to the following individuals:
       ``(1) Individuals who require the most credit hours 
     described in subsection (b)(4).
       ``(2) Individuals who are entitled to educational 
     assistance under this chapter by reason of paragraph (1), 
     (2), (8), or (9) of section 3311(b) of this title.
       ``(d) Amount of Assistance.--(1) The Secretary shall pay to 
     each eligible individual who receives additional benefits 
     under this section the monthly amount payable under section 
     3313 of this title for not more than nine months of the 
     program of education in which the individual is enrolled 
     (adjusted with respect to the individual pursuant to section 
     3313(c), as appropriate), except that the aggregate amount 
     paid to an individual under this section may not exceed 
     $30,000.
       ``(2) The Secretary may not pay to such an individual an 
     amount in addition to the amount payable under paragraph (1) 
     by reason of section 3317 of this title.
       ``(3) An individual who receives additional benefits under 
     this section may also receive amounts payable by a college or 
     university pursuant to section 3317 of this title.
       ``(e) Prohibition on Transfer.--An individual who receives 
     additional benefits under this section may not transfer any 
     amount of such additional benefits under section 3319 of this 
     title.
       ``(f) Maximum Amount of Total Assistance.--The total amount 
     of benefits paid to all eligible individuals under this 
     section may not exceed--
       ``(1) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2019;
       ``(2) $75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 
     2022; and
       ``(3) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2023 and each subsequent 
     fiscal year.
       ``(g) Congressional Notice.--If the Secretary identifies a 
     new subject or field pursuant to subsection (b)(4)(A)(i)(XI) 
     as meeting a national need, the Secretary shall submit to 
     Congress notice of such identification at least 90 days 
     before conferring eligibility on any individual for purposes 
     of this section on the basis of such identification, 
     including any analysis of labor market supply and demand used 
     in identifying the new subject or field, as applicable.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 3319 the following new item:

``3320. Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship.''.
       (c) Effective Date.--Section 3320 of title 38, United 
     States Code, shall take effect on August 1, 2019.
       (d) Comptroller General Report.--
       (1) Interim report.--Not later than August 1, 2022, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to 
     Congress a report containing the results of an interim 
     assessment of the Comptroller General of the Edith Nourse 
     Rogers STEM Scholarship program under section 3320 of title 
     38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a). Such 
     report shall include the recommendations of the Comptroller 
     General for improving the scholarship program and an 
     assessment of each of the following, using rigorous, 
     systematic, and objective methodology, and including 
     comparisons to eligible veterans who did not participate in 
     the program:
       (A) An explanation of the identification of the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs of subjects and fields meeting national 
     needs under subsection (b)(4)(A)(i)(XI) of such section, 
     including any analysis of labor market supply and demand, as 
     applicable.
       (B) An evaluation of the types of educational institutions 
     and programs where beneficiaries use the educational 
     assistance provided under the scholarship program.
       (C) The completion rate of students participating in the 
     program.
       (D) The job placement rate for individuals who completed a 
     program of education using educational assistance provided 
     under the scholarship program in the field of study of the 
     program of education.
       (E) The median annual earnings of individuals who completed 
     a program of education using educational assistance provided 
     under the scholarship program.
       (F) The average age of the individuals who received 
     educational assistance under the scholarship program.
       (G) An assessment of the extent to which any educational 
     institutions made changes to degrees or programs of education 
     offered by the institution for which the scholarship program 
     may be used after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (2) Final report.--Not later than August 1, 2024, the 
     Comptroller General shall submit to Congress an assessment of 
     such scholarship program that includes each of the following:
       (A) Each item described in subparagraph (A) through (G) of 
     paragraph (1).
       (B) The percentage of individuals who completed a program 
     of education using educational assistance provided under the 
     scholarship program who were subsequently employed for a 
     period of six months or longer in the field of study of the 
     program of education.
       (C) The percentage of individuals who completed a program 
     of education using educational assistance provided under the 
     scholarship program who were subsequently employed for a 
     period of less than six months in the field of study of the 
     program of education.

     SEC. 112. HONORING THE NATIONAL SERVICE OF MEMBERS OF THE 
                   ARMED FORCES BY ELIMINATION OF TIME LIMITATION 
                   FOR USE OF ENTITLEMENT.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 3321 is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``individual's entitlement'' and all that 
     follows through the period and inserting ``individual's 
     entitlement--''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(1) in the case of an individual whose last discharge or 
     release from active duty is before January, 1, 2013, expires 
     at the end of the 15-year period beginning on the date of 
     such discharge or release; or
       ``(2) in the case of an individual whose last discharge or 
     release from active duty is on or after January 1, 2013, 
     shall not expire.''.
       (b) Children of Deceased Members.--Subsection (b)(4) of 
     such section is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``of this title'' after ``3311(b)(9)'';
       (2) by striking ``child's entitlement'' and all that 
     follows through the period and inserting ``child's 
     entitlement--''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(A) in the case of a child who first becomes entitled to 
     such entitlement before January 1, 2013, expires at the end 
     of the 15-year period beginning on the date of such child's 
     eighteenth birthday; or
       ``(B) in the case of a child who first becomes entitled to 
     such entitlement on or after January 1, 2013, shall not 
     expire.''.
       (c) Spouses of Deceased Members.--Subsection (b) of such 
     section is further amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(5) Applicability to spouses of deceased members.--The 
     period during which a spouse entitled to educational 
     assistance by reason of section 3311(b)(9) may use such 
     spouse's entitlement--
       ``(A) in the case of a spouse who first becomes entitled to 
     such entitlement before January 1, 2013, expires at the end 
     of the 15-year period beginning on the date on which the 
     spouse first becomes entitled to such entitlement; or
       ``(B) in the case of a spouse who first becomes entitled to 
     such entitlement on or after January 1, 2013, shall not 
     expire.''.

     SEC. 113. MONTHLY STIPEND FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE 
                   COMPONENTS OF THE ARMED FORCES RECEIVING POST-
                   9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

       (a) In General.--Section 3313 is further amended by adding 
     at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(j) Determination of Monthly Stipends During Certain 
     Active Duty Service.--
       ``(1) Pro rata basis.--In any month in which an individual 
     described in paragraph (2) is performing active duty service 
     described in section 3301(1)(B) of this title, the

[[Page H6162]]

     Secretary shall determine the amount of monthly stipends 
     payable under this section for such month on a pro rata basis 
     for the period of such month in which the covered individual 
     is not performing such active duty service.
       ``(2) Individual described.--An individual described in 
     this paragraph is an individual who is--
       ``(A) a member of the reserve components of the Armed 
     Forces; and
       ``(B) pursuing a program of education using educational 
     assistance under this chapter.''.
       (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as 
     applicable, commencing on or after August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 114. ANNUAL REPORTS TO CONGRESS ON INFORMATION ON 
                   STUDENT PROGRESS SUBMITTED BY EDUCATIONAL 
                   INSTITUTIONS.

       Section 3326 is amended--
       (1) by striking ``As a condition'' and inserting ``(a) 
     Submittal of Information by Educational Institutions.--As a 
     condition''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Reports to Congress.--Not later than March 1 of each 
     year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that 
     includes a summary of the information provided by educational 
     institutions under subsection (a) for the calendar year 
     preceding the year during which such report is submitted.''.

     SEC. 115. IMPROVEMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OF THE 
                   VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

       (a) Processing of Certain Educational Assistance Claims.--
     The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, to the maximum 
     extent possible, make such changes and improvements to the 
     information technology system of the Veterans Benefits 
     Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
     ensure that--
       (1) to the maximum extent possible, all original and 
     supplemental claims for educational assistance under chapter 
     33 of title 38, United States Code, are adjudicated 
     electronically; and
       (2) rules-based processing is used to make decisions with 
     respect to such claims with little human intervention.
       (b) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs shall submit to Congress a plan to implement the 
     changes and improvements described in subsection (a).
       (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall submit to Congress a report on the implementation of 
     the changes and improvements described in subsection (a).
       (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     $30,000,000 to carry out this section during fiscal years 
     2018 and 2019.

     SEC. 116. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS HIGH TECHNOLOGY 
                   PILOT PROGRAM.

       (a) Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     carry out a pilot program under which the Secretary shall 
     provide eligible veterans with the opportunity to enroll in 
     high technology programs of education that the Secretary 
     determines provide training or skills sought by employers in 
     a relevant field or industry.
       (b) Eligibility.--For purposes of the pilot program under 
     this section, an eligible veteran is a veteran who is 
     entitled to educational assistance under chapter 30, 32, 33, 
     34, or 35 of title 38, United States Code, or chapter 1606 or 
     1607 of title 10, United States Code.
       (c) Contracts.--
       (1) In general.--For purposes of carrying out subsection 
     (a), by not later than 180 days after August 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary shall seek to enter into contracts with any number 
     of qualified providers of high technology programs of 
     education for the provision of such programs to eligible 
     veterans under the pilot program. Each such contract shall 
     provide for the conditions under which the Secretary may 
     terminate the contract with the provider and the procedures 
     for providing for the completion of the instruction of 
     students who were enrolled in a program provided by such 
     provider in the case of such a termination.
       (2) Payment of contractors.--A contract under this 
     subsection shall provide that the Secretary shall pay to a 
     provider--
       (A) upon the enrollment of an eligible veteran in the 
     program, 25 percent of the cost of the tuition and other fees 
     for the program of education for the veteran;
       (B) upon the completion of the program by the veteran, 25 
     percent of such cost; and
       (C) upon the employment of the veteran in the field of 
     study of the program following completion of the program, 50 
     percent of such cost.
       (3) Qualified providers.--For purposes of the pilot 
     program, a provider of a high technology program of education 
     is qualified if--
       (A) the provider has been operational for at least two 
     years;
       (B) the provider has successfully provided the high 
     technology program for at least one year; and
       (C) the provider meets the approval criteria developed by 
     the Secretary under paragraph (4).
       (4) Approval criteria.--The Secretary shall develop 
     criteria for approving providers for purposes of the pilot 
     program. In developing such criteria, the Secretary may 
     consult with State approving agencies. Such criteria is not 
     required to meet the requirements of section 3672 of title 
     38, United States Code.
       (5) Tuition reimbursement.--In entering into contracts to 
     carry out the pilot program, the Secretary shall give 
     preference to a qualified provider that offers tuition 
     reimbursement for any student who--
       (A) completes a program of education offered by the 
     provider; and
       (B) does not find full-time meaningful employment in the 
     field of study of the program within the 180-day period 
     beginning on the date the student completes the program.
       (d) Housing Stipend.--The Secretary shall pay to each 
     eligible veteran who is enrolled in a high technology program 
     of education under the pilot program on a full-time basis a 
     monthly housing stipend equal to the product--
       (1) of--
       (A) in the case of a veteran pursuing resident training, 
     the monthly amount of the basic allowance for housing payable 
     under section 403 of title 37, United States Code, for a 
     member with dependents in pay grade E-5 residing in the 
     military housing area that encompasses all or the majority 
     portion of the ZIP code area in which is located the 
     institution at which the individual is enrolled; or
       (B) in the case of a veteran pursuing a program of 
     education through distance learning, a monthly amount equal 
     to 50 percent of the amount payable under subparagraph (A), 
     multiplied by
       (2) the lesser of--
       (A) 1.0; or
       (B) the number of course hours borne by the individual in 
     pursuit of the program of education involved, divided by the 
     minimum number of course hours required for full-time pursuit 
     of such program of education, rounded to the nearest multiple 
     of 10.
       (e) High Technology Program of Education Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``high technology program of education'' 
     means a program of education that--
       (1) is offered by an entity other than an institution of 
     higher learning;
       (2) does not lead to a degree; and
       (3) provides instruction in computer programming, computer 
     software, media application, data processing, or information 
     sciences.
       (f) Reports.--
       (1) Secretary of veterans affairs.--Not later than one year 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
     thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
     on the pilot program under this section.
       (2) Comptroller general.--
       (A) Interim report.--Not later than three years after the 
     date on which the Secretary first enters into a contract 
     under this section, the Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall submit to Congress a report containing the 
     results of the interim assessment of the Comptroller General. 
     Such report shall include the recommendations of the 
     Comptroller General for improving the pilot program and an 
     assessment of each of the following:
       (i) The technology experience of the directors and 
     instructors of the providers of high technology programs of 
     education under the pilot program.
       (ii) Whether the providers cooperated with the technology 
     industry to create the curriculum for the program of 
     education.
       (iii) Whether the providers use an open source curriculum 
     for the program of education.
       (iv) The admittance rate into the pilot program.
       (v) The job placement and retention rate for veterans who 
     completed a program of education under the pilot program in 
     the field of study of the program.
       (vi) The percentage of veterans who completed a program of 
     education under the pilot program who were subsequently 
     employed for a period of six months or longer in a field of 
     study of the program.
       (vii) The percentage of veterans who completed a program of 
     education under the pilot program who were subsequently 
     employed for a period of less than six months in a field of 
     study of the program.
       (viii) The median annual salary of veterans who completed a 
     program of education under the pilot program and were 
     subsequently employed.
       (ix) As applicable, the transfer rates to other academic or 
     vocational programs and certifications and licensure exam 
     passage rates.
       (x) The average age of veterans who participated in the 
     pilot program.
       (B) Final report.--Not later than five years after the date 
     on which the Secretary first enters into a contract under 
     this section, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
     Congress a final report on the pilot program. Such report 
     shall include the recommendation of the Comptroller General 
     with respect to whether the program should be extended and an 
     assessment of each item described in clauses (i) through (x) 
     of subparagraph (A).
       (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--For each fiscal year 
     during which the Secretary carries out a pilot program under 
     this section, $15,000,000 shall be made available for such 
     purpose from funds appropriated to, or otherwise made 
     available to, the Department for the payment of readjustment 
     benefits.

[[Page H6163]]

       (h) Termination.--The authority to carry out a pilot 
     program under this section shall terminate on the date that 
     is five years after the date on which the Secretary first 
     enters into a contract under this section.

            TITLE II--OTHER EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

     SEC. 201. WORK-STUDY ALLOWANCE.

       Section 3485(a)(4) is amended by striking ``the period 
     beginning on June 30, 2017, and ending on June 30, 2022,'' 
     each place it appears and inserting ``any time on or after 
     June 30, 2017,''.

     SEC. 202. DURATION OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE UNDER SURVIVORS' 
                   AND DEPENDENTS' EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

       Section 3511(a)(1) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``chapter for'' and all that follows 
     through the period and inserting ``chapter--''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(A) in the case of a person who first enrolls in a 
     program of education using such entitlement before August 1, 
     2018, for an aggregate period not in excess of 45 months (or 
     to the equivalent thereof in part-time training); or
       ``(B) in the case of a person who first enrolls in a 
     program of education using such entitlement on or after 
     August 1, 2018, for an aggregate period not in excess of 36 
     months (or to the equivalent thereof in part-time 
     training).''.

     SEC. 203. OLIN E. TEAGUE INCREASE IN AMOUNTS OF EDUCATIONAL 
                   ASSISTANCE PAYABLE UNDER SURVIVORS' AND 
                   DEPENDENTS' EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

       (a) Increase.--Section 3532 is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking ``$788'' and inserting ``$1,224'';
       (ii) by striking ``$592'' and inserting ``$967''; and
       (iii) by striking ``$394'' and inserting ``$710''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``$788'' and inserting 
     ``$1,224''; and
       (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``$788'' and inserting 
     ``$1,224''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply with respect to a month that begins on or after 
     October 1, 2018.

      TITLE III--ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

     SEC. 301. STATE APPROVING AGENCY FUNDING.

       (a) Increase.--Section 3674(a) of title 38, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``out of amounts 
     available for the payment of readjustment benefits'' and 
     inserting ``out of amounts in the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs readjustment benefits account and amounts 
     appropriated to the Secretary'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5);
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
     paragraph (4):
       ``(4) In addition to amounts made available under paragraph 
     (5), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
     section $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2019 and each subsequent 
     fiscal year.''; and
       (4) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated--
       (A) by striking ``The total'' and inserting ``(A) The 
     total'';
       (B) by striking ``for any fiscal year shall be 
     $19,000,000'' and inserting ``for fiscal year 2018 shall be 
     $21,000,000 and for fiscal year 2019 and thereafter shall be 
     $23,000,000''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(B) Beginning in fiscal year 2019, whenever there is an 
     increase in benefit amounts payable under title II of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) as a result of a 
     determination made under section 215(i) of such Act (42 
     U.S.C. 415(i)), the Secretary shall, effective on the date of 
     such increase in benefit amounts, increase the amount in 
     effect under subparagraph (A), as in effect immediately prior 
     to the date of such increase in benefit amounts payable under 
     title II of the Social Security Act, by the same percentage 
     as the percentage by which such benefit amounts are 
     increased.''.

     SEC. 302. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL 
                   ASSISTANCE TO PURSUE INDEPENDENT STUDY PROGRAMS 
                   AT CERTAIN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS THAT ARE 
                   NOT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER LEARNING.

       Section 3680A is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
     ``in--'' and inserting ``in any of the following:'';
       (B) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking ``any'' and inserting ``Any''; and
       (ii) by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting a 
     period;
       (C) in paragraph (2)--
       (i) by striking ``any'' and inserting ``Any''; and
       (ii) by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting a 
     period;
       (D) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by striking ``any'' and inserting ``Any''; and
       (ii) by striking ``; or'' and inserting a period; and
       (E) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following 
     new paragraph (4):
       ``(4) Any independent study program except an independent 
     study program (including such a program taken over open 
     circuit television) that--
       ``(A) is accredited by an accrediting agency or association 
     recognized by the Secretary of Education under subpart 2 of 
     part H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
     U.S.C. 1099b);
       ``(B) leads to--
       ``(i) a standard college degree;
       ``(ii) a certificate that reflects educational attainment 
     offered by an institution of higher learning; or
       ``(iii) a certificate that reflects completion of a course 
     of study offered by--

       ``(I) an area career and technical education school (as 
     defined in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of section 3(3) of the 
     Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 
     (20 U.S.C. 2302(3))) that provides education at the 
     postsecondary level; or
       ``(II) a postsecondary vocational institution (as defined 
     in section 102(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
     U.S.C. 1002(c))) that provides education at the postsecondary 
     level; and

       ``(C) in the case of a program described in subparagraph 
     (B)(iii)--
       ``(i) provides training aligned with the requirements of 
     employers in the State or local area where the program is 
     located, which may include in-demand industry sectors or 
     occupations; and
       ``(ii) provides a student, upon completion of the program, 
     with a recognized postsecondary credential that is recognized 
     by employers in the relevant industry, which may include a 
     credential recognized by industry or sector partnerships in 
     the State or local area where the industry is located; and
       ``(iii) meets such content and instructional standards as 
     may be required to comply with the criteria under section 
     3676(c)(14) and(15) of this title.''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(h) In this section, the terms `State or local area', 
     `recognized postsecondary credential', `industry or sector 
     partnership', and `in-demand industry sector or occupation' 
     have the meaning given such terms in section 3 of the 
     Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).''.

     SEC. 303. PROVISION OF INFORMATION ON PRIORITY ENROLLMENT FOR 
                   VETERANS IN CERTAIN COURSES OF EDUCATION.

       Section 3698(c)(1)(C) is amended--
       (1) in clause (ix), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in clause (x), by striking the period and inserting ``; 
     and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
       ``(xi) information on whether the institution administers a 
     priority enrollment system that allows certain student 
     veterans to enroll in courses earlier than other students.''.

     SEC. 304. LIMITATION ON USE OF REPORTING FEES PAYABLE TO 
                   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AND SPONSORS OF 
                   PROGRAMS OF APPRENTICESHIP.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (c) of section 3684 is amended 
     to read as follows:
       ``(c)(1) The Secretary may pay to any educational 
     institution, or to the sponsor of a program of 
     apprenticeship, furnishing education or training under either 
     this chapter or chapter 31, 34, or 35 of this title, a 
     reporting fee which will be in lieu of any other compensation 
     or reimbursement for reports or certifications which such 
     educational institution or sponsor of a program of 
     apprenticeship is required to submit to the Secretary by law 
     or regulation.
       ``(2) Such reporting fee shall be computed for each 
     calendar year by multiplying $16 by the number of eligible 
     veterans or eligible persons enrolled under this chapter or 
     chapter 31, 34, or 35 of this title. The reporting fee shall 
     be paid to such educational institution or sponsor of a 
     program of apprenticeship as soon as feasible after the end 
     of the calendar year for which it is applicable.
       ``(3) No reporting fee payable to an educational 
     institution under this subsection shall be subject to offset 
     by the Secretary against any liability of such institution 
     for any overpayment for which such institution may be 
     administratively determined to be liable under section 3685 
     of this title unless such liability is not contested by such 
     institution or has been upheld by a final decree of a court 
     of appropriate jurisdiction.
       ``(4) Any reporting fee paid to an educational institution 
     or sponsor of a program of apprenticeship after the date of 
     the enactment of the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational 
     Assistance Improvements Act of 2011 (Public Law 111-377)--
       ``(A) shall be utilized by such institution or sponsor 
     solely for the making of certifications required under this 
     chapter or chapter 31, 34, or 35 of this title or for 
     otherwise supporting programs for veterans; and
       ``(B) with respect to an institution that has 100 or more 
     enrollees described in paragraph (2) may not be used for or 
     merged with amounts available for the general fund of the 
     educational institution or sponsor of a program of 
     apprenticeship.
       ``(5) The reporting fee payable under this subsection shall 
     be paid from amounts appropriated for readjustment 
     benefits.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 305. TRAINING FOR SCHOOL CERTIFYING OFFICIALS.

       (a) Training Requirement.--The Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs shall, in consultation with the State approving 
     agencies, set forth requirements relating to training for 
     school certifying officials employed by covered educational 
     institutions offering courses of education approved under 
     chapter 36 of title 38,

[[Page H6164]]

     United States Code. If a covered educational institution does 
     not ensure that a school certifying official employed by the 
     educational institution meets such requirements, the 
     Secretary may disapprove any course of education offered by 
     such educational institution.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``covered educational institution'' means an 
     educational institution that has enrolled 20 or more 
     individuals using educational assistance under title 38, 
     United States Code.
       (2) The term ``school certifying official'' means an 
     employee of an educational institution with primary 
     responsibility for certifying veteran enrollment at the 
     educational institution.
       (3) The term ``State approving agency'' means a department 
     or agency of a State designated under section 3671 of title 
     38, United States Code.
       (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on 
     August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 306. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON 
                   EDUCATION.

       Section 3692 is amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' 
     and inserting ``December 31, 2022''.

     SEC. 307. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PROVISION OF ON-
                   CAMPUS EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL COUNSELING 
                   FOR VETERANS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 36 is amended by inserting after 
     section 3697A the following new section:

     ``Sec. 3697B. On-campus educational and vocational counseling

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide educational 
     and vocational counseling services for individuals described 
     in section 3697A(b) of this title at locations on the 
     campuses of institutions of higher learning selected by the 
     Secretary. Such counseling services shall be provided by 
     employees of the Department who provide such services under 
     section 3697A of this title.
       ``(b) Selection of Locations.--(1) To be selected by the 
     Secretary under this section, an institution of higher 
     learning shall provide an appropriate space on the campus of 
     the institution where counseling services can be provided 
     under this section.
       ``(2) In selecting locations for the provision of 
     counseling services under this section, the Secretary shall 
     seek to select locations where the maximum number of veterans 
     would have access to such services.
       ``(c) Annual Report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this section, and each year 
     thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
     on the counseling services provided under this section. Such 
     report shall include, for the year covered by the report--
       ``(1) the average ratio of counselors providing such 
     services to individuals who received such services at each 
     location where such services were provided;
       ``(2) a description of such services provided;
       ``(3) the recommendations of the Secretary for improving 
     the provision of such services; and
       ``(4) any other matters the Secretary determines 
     appropriate.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 3697A the following new item:

``3697B. On-campus educational and vocational counseling.''.

     SEC. 308. PROVISION OF INFORMATION REGARDING VETERAN 
                   ENTITLEMENT TO EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

       (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 36 is further 
     amended by adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 3699A. Provision of certain information to educational 
       institutions

       ``(a) In General.--For each veteran or other individual 
     pursuing a course of education that has been approved under 
     this chapter using educational assistance to which the 
     veteran or other individual is entitled under chapter 30, 32, 
     33, or 35 of this title, the Secretary shall make available 
     to the educational institution offering the course 
     information about the amount of such educational assistance 
     to which the veteran or other individual is entitled. Such 
     information shall be provided to such educational institution 
     through a secure information technology system accessible by 
     the educational institution and shall be regularly updated to 
     reflect any amounts used by the veteran or other individual.
       ``(b) Election.--A veteran or other individual pursuing a 
     course of education described in subsection (a) may elect not 
     to provide the information described in such subsection to an 
     educational institution in a manner prescribed by the 
     Secretary.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is further amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 3699 the following new 
     item:

``3699A. Provision of certain information to educational 
              institutions.''.
       (c) Effective Date.--Section 3699A of title 38, United 
     States Code, as added by this section, shall take effect on 
     August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 309. TREATMENT, FOR PURPOSES OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 
                   ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS 
                   AFFAIRS, OF EDUCATIONAL COURSES THAT BEGIN 
                   SEVEN OR FEWER DAYS AFTER THE FIRST DAY OF AN 
                   ACADEMIC TERM.

       Section 3684(a) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
     paragraph (4):
       ``(4) A course offered by an educational institution that 
     does not begin on the first day of an academic term, but does 
     begin seven or fewer days after such day, shall be treated as 
     beginning on such day for purposes of this section.''.

     SEC. 310. INCLUSION OF RISK-BASED SURVEYS IN STATE APPROVING 
                   AGENCY OVERSIGHT ACTIVITIES.

       Section 3673(d) is amended--
       (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Compliance 
     and'' ;
       (2) by striking ``such compliance and oversight'' and 
     inserting ``conducting risk-based surveys and other such 
     oversight''; and
       (3) by inserting ``, in consultation with the State 
     approving agencies,'' after ``as the Secretary''.

     SEC. 311. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY OF STATE APPROVING AGENCY 
                   PERFORMANCE.

       (a) Study Required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall carry out a study on the performance of State 
     approving agencies. Such study shall include each of the 
     following:
       (1) An analysis of the effectiveness of the cooperation 
     between the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and State approving 
     agencies regarding the execution of shared compliance and 
     oversight responsibilities under chapter 36 of title 38, 
     United States Code.
       (2) An analysis of the resources necessary for State 
     approving agencies to fulfill the responsibilities of such 
     agencies under such title, including an analysis of whether 
     Congress has appropriated sufficient funds for State 
     approving agencies to fulfill such responsibilities and the 
     historic effect of funding on the ability of such agencies to 
     fulfill such responsibilities.
       (3) An evaluation of the use by State approving agencies of 
     risk-based methods of review for identifying violations of 
     established standards under such chapter.
       (4) An examination of how State approving agencies use risk 
     factors, including rapid increases in veteran enrollment, 
     increases in the amount of benefits per capita, volume of 
     student complaints, rates of Federal student loan defaults of 
     veterans, veteran completion rates, deficiencies identified 
     by accreditors and other State agencies, and deficiencies in 
     Department of Veterans Affairs program administration 
     compliance, in their oversight and compliance 
     responsibilities and in selecting educational institutions 
     for review of eligibility.
       (5) Recommendations on how the Secretary and State 
     approving agencies can better use data to evaluate, approve, 
     or disapprove educational institutions under such chapter.
       (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General 
     shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, and the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives, a report on the study required under 
     subsection (a) and the findings and recommendations of the 
     Comptroller General with respect to such study.

                  TITLE IV--RESERVE COMPONENT BENEFITS

     SEC. 401. ELIGIBILITY OF RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS FOR POST-
                   9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

       (a) In General.--Section 3301(1)(B) is amended by striking 
     ``or 12304'' and inserting ``12304, 12304a, or 12304b''.
       (b) Retroactive Application.--The amendment made by 
     subsection (a) shall apply with respect to service in the 
     Armed Forces occurring on or after the date of the enactment 
     of the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008 
     (Public Law 110-252).
       (c) Application With Respect to Use of Entitlement.--An 
     individual who is entitled to educational assistance by 
     reason of the amendment made by subsection (a) may use such 
     entitlement to pursue a course of education beginning on or 
     after August 1, 2018.

     SEC. 402. TIME LIMITATION FOR TRAINING AND REHABILITATION FOR 
                   VETERANS WITH SERVICE-CONNECTED DISABILITIES.

       Section 3103(f) is amended by striking ``or 12304'' and 
     inserting ``12304, 12304a, or 12304b''.

                         TITLE V--OTHER MATTERS

     SEC. 501. REPEAL INAPPLICABILITY OF MODIFICATION OF BASIC 
                   ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING TO BENEFITS UNDER LAWS 
                   ADMINISTERED BY SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

       (a) Repeal.--Subsection (b) of section 604 of the Carl 
     Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     37 U.S.C. 403 note) is repealed.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on January 1, 2018, and shall apply with 
     respect to individuals who first use their entitlement to 
     educational assistance under chapter 33 of title 38, United 
     States Code, on or after such date.

     SEC. 502. RECONSIDERATION OF PREVIOUSLY DENIED CLAIMS FOR 
                   DISABILITY COMPENSATION FOR VETERANS WHO ALLEGE 
                   FULL-BODY EXPOSURE TO NITROGEN MUSTARD GAS, 
                   SULFUR MUSTARD GAS, OR LEWISITE DURING WORLD 
                   WAR II.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Reconsideration required.--The Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs shall reconsider

[[Page H6165]]

     all claims for compensation described in paragraph (2) and 
     make a new determination regarding each such claim.
       (2) Claims for compensation described.--A claim for 
     compensation described in this paragraph is a claim for 
     compensation under chapter 11 of title 38, United States 
     Code, that the Secretary determines--
       (A) arose from the alleged full-body exposure of a veteran 
     to a covered substance--
       (I) during active military, naval, or air service during 
     World War II; and
       (ii) at a site listed in paragraph (3); and
       (B) was denied before the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.
       (3) Sites.--The sites listed in this paragraph are the 
     following:
       (A) Camp Siebert, Alabama.
       (B) Fort McClellan, Alabama.
       (C) Huntsville Arsenal, Alabama.
       (D) Rocky Mountain Arsenal, Colorado.
       (E) Naval Research Laboratory, D.C.
       (F) Bushnell Field, Florida.
       (G) Great Lakes Naval Training Center, Illinois.
       (H) Edgewood Arsenal, Maryland.
       (I) Fort Detrick, Maryland.
       (J) Naval Research Laboratory, Maryland.
       (K) Naval Training Center, Bainbridge, Maryland.
       (L) Horn Island Installation, Mississippi.
       (M) Camp Crowder, Missouri.
       (N) Hart's Island, New York.
       (O) Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.
       (P) Charleston, South Carolina.
       (Q) Dugway Proving Ground, Utah.
       (R) Toole Army Depot, Utah.
       (S) Naval Research Laboratory, Virginia.
       (T) U.S.S. Eagle Boat No. 58.
       (U) Ondal, India.
       (V) Fort Clayton, San Jose Island, Panama.
       (W) Any site the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines 
     is appropriate.
       (4) Factors of consideration.--In making a determination 
     under paragraph (1), the Secretary--
       (A) shall consider--
       (i) that contemporaneous records of testing of full-body 
     exposure to a covered substance frequently may be unavailable 
     because such tests were classified or such records were lost 
     or destroyed;
       (ii) that many veterans were sworn to secrecy following 
     testing described in clause (i);
       (iii) each statement based on personal knowledge of a 
     veteran who served at a site listed in paragraph (3);
       (iv) information in the report from the Secretary of 
     Defense under subsection (b)(2); and
       (v) any evidence the Secretary considers relevant; and
       (B) may not determine that testing of full-body exposure to 
     a covered substance did not occur at a site based solely on--
       (i) information contained in the Department of Defense and 
     Department of Veterans Affairs Chemical Biological Warfare 
     Database; or
       (ii) any list of known sites of testing of full-body 
     exposure to a covered substance maintained by the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Defense.
       (5) Presumption of exposure.--In carrying out paragraph 
     (1), when the Secretary of Veterans Affairs makes a 
     determination regarding whether a veteran experienced full-
     body exposure to a covered substance, the Secretary--
       (A) shall presume, unless there is affirmative evidence to 
     establish otherwise, that the veteran experienced such 
     exposure by reason of the service of the veteran in World War 
     II--
       (i) based on the locations listed in paragraph (3); and
       (ii) consistent with the places, types, and circumstances 
     of service of the veteran in accordance with section 1154 of 
     title 38; and
       (B) shall resolve each reasonable doubt in favor of the 
     veteran.
       (6) Effective date of award.--The effective date of any 
     award of disability compensation resulting from 
     reconsideration of a claim under paragraph (1) shall be fixed 
     in accordance with the facts found, but shall not be earlier 
     than the date of the receipt of the claim for compensation 
     described in paragraph (2).
       (b) Investigation and Report by the Secretary of Defense.--
     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
       (1) investigate and assess each site--
       (A) where the Army Corps of Engineers has uncovered 
     evidence of testing conducted by the Department of Defense 
     during World War II to assess the effects of full-body 
     exposure to a covered substance on humans; or
       (B) with regards to which more than two veterans have been 
     denied claims for compensation under chapter 11 of title 38, 
     United States Code, in connection with exposure to a covered 
     substance at such site; and
       (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees and 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a report on testing 
     described in paragraph (1)(A), including--
       (A) a list of each location where such testing occurred, 
     including locations investigated and assessed under paragraph 
     (1);
       (B) the dates of each such testing; and
       (C) the number of members of the Armed Forces who 
     experienced full-body exposure to a covered substance in each 
     such testing.
       (c) Investigation and Report by Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall--
       (1) investigate and assess--
       (A) the actions taken by the Secretary to contact 
     individuals who experienced full-body exposure to a covered 
     substance in the course of testing described in subsection 
     (b)(1)(A);
       (B) the number of claims filed with the Secretary for 
     disability compensation under chapter 11 of title 38, United 
     States Code, arising from testing described in subsection 
     (b)(1)(A); and
       (C) the percentage of claims described in subparagraph (B) 
     that the Secretary denied.
       (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees and 
     the Secretary of Defense a report regarding the 
     investigations and assessments carried out under paragraph 
     (1).
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The terms ``active military, naval, or air service'', 
     ``veteran'', and ``World War II'' have the meanings given 
     such terms in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
       (2) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate; and
       (B) the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate.
       (3) The term ``covered substance'' means--
       (A) nitrogen mustard gas;
       (B) sulfur mustard gas; or
       (C) Lewisite.
       (4) The term ``full-body exposure'', with respect to a 
     covered substance, has the meaning given that term by the 
     Secretary of Defense.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Roe) and the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Walz) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include extraneous material.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  I rise today in support of H.R. 3218, as amended, the Harry W. 
Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017, which I introduced 
with Ranking Member Walz and every member of the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs 2 weeks ago.
  This bill and how it got to this point today is a shining example of 
how well Congress can and should work together. It is the result of 
tireless work of many veterans service organizations and the bipartisan 
efforts of committee members.
  I am proud that the improvements and enhancements to the GI Bill that 
this Chamber will advance today will empower servicemembers, veterans, 
survivors, and dependents for generations to come.
  This is the first major improvement to the GI Bill since 2011, and it 
encompasses 17 bills introduced by our colleagues, many who serve on 
the Veterans' Affairs Committee, and also others who share our 
committee's commitment to the men and women who have raised their right 
hand side to serve.
  This package includes over 30 provisions and brings forward many 
enhancements that veterans' groups have requested for years. I have 
said it before and I will say it again, this isn't a package that comes 
along every day.
  Madam Speaker, H.R. 3218, as amended, is aptly named after Mr. Harry 
W. Colmery, who is credited with actually writing by hand the first 
draft of the World War II-era GI Bill. It is only appropriate that we 
honor him today for his work on the first GI Bill decades ago.
  This package would do a number of things, and I want to focus on just 
a few key improvements. First, it would eliminate the 15-year time 
limit to use the GI Bill benefits for future eligible beneficiaries and 
anyone who left active service on or after January 1, 2013.
  Madam Speaker, the GI Bill, when I used it for 2 years after I got 
out of the military, was, at 10 years, you could no longer use it. This 
is a lifetime commitment to the American people, to our veterans, if 
they can exercise their GI Bill benefit at any time.
  Let me repeat that. For the first time in the history of our GI Bill, 
future beneficiaries and some veterans will be able to carry these 
benefits with them throughout their life.
  Secondly, the bill would provide significant increases in GI Bill 
funding for

[[Page H6166]]

reservists and guardsmen, including those who are currently serving on 
orders but do not accrue GI Bill eligibility, as well as dependents, 
surviving spouses, and surviving dependents.
  It would also provide 100 percent GI eligibility for post-9/11 Purple 
Heart recipients.
  Finally, it would increase opportunities for veterans to complete a 
science, technology, engineering, math degree, or other high technology 
program. That particular issue is one that I know Leader McCarthy has 
advocated for. It is a privilege to have him as an original cosponsor 
of the bill, and we thank him for his leadership in getting the bill to 
the House floor promptly.
  The provisions I just mentioned only scratch the surface of the 
benefits that our veterans and survivors will receive under this bill.
  The amendment to this bill before the House today provides technical 
and conforming changes to ensure the bill is budget-neutral over the 
10-year budget window, clarifies that students impacted by the closure 
of ITT Tech would be able to have their GI Bill eligibility restored if 
they are unable to transfer their credits, and, starting in fiscal year 
2022, would provide eligibility for a Yellow Ribbon Program to Active 
Duty servicemembers.
  Madam Speaker, we owe a debt of gratitude to all the VSOs who pushed 
for this package. And I would be remiss if I didn't single out and give 
my sincere thanks to the Student Veterans of America, the American 
Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Vietnam Veterans of America, 
Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors, the Military Order of the 
Purple Heart, and Got Your Six for working tirelessly across the Hill 
over several months to help us make this happen.
  I commend and thank them because, without a doubt, we would not be in 
this Chamber today on the verge of this historic moment without their 
efforts.
  Finally, I thank Ranking Member Walz for his strong leadership and 
support in making this package come together. I also express my 
appreciation to Senators Isakson and Tester for their efforts in 
negotiating a strong package we can all agree on. I know they are 
planning to hold a markup on this companion bill to H.R. 3218, as 
amended, this week, and I would expect that they can pick up and pass 
this bill and get it to President Trump's desk before the August 
District Work Period.
  Madam Speaker, this is a strong bill that would help thousands of 
student veterans for the rest of their lives. I urge my colleagues to 
support it, and I reserve the balance of my time.

                                      Committee on Armed Services,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                    Washington, DC, July 20, 2017.
     Hon. David P. Roe, M.D.,
     Chairman, Committee on Veterans' Affairs, House of 
         Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing to you concerning H.R. 
     3218, the ``Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance 
     Act of 2017.'' There are certain provisions in the bill which 
     fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
       In the interest of permitting your committee to proceed 
     expeditiously to floor consideration of this important 
     legislation, I am willing to waive this committee's further 
     consideration of H.R. 3218. I do so with the understanding 
     that by waiving consideration of the bill, the Committee on 
     Armed Services does not waive any fixture jurisdictional 
     claim over the subject matters contained in the legislation 
     which fall within its Rule X jurisdiction.
       Please place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest into the committee 
     report on H.R. 3218 and into the Congressional Record during 
     consideration of the measure on the House floor. The 
     committee also reserves the right to seek appointment to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation and requests your 
     support if such a request is made. Thank you for the 
     cooperative spirit in which you have worked regarding this 
     matter and others between our respective committees.
           Sincerely,
                                    William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Veterans' Affairs,

                                    Washington, DC, July 21, 2017.
     Hon. William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
     Chairman, House Committee on Armed Services,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Thornberry: In reference to your letter on 
     July 20, 2017, I write to confirm our mutual understanding 
     regarding H.R. 3218, as amended, the ``Harry W. Colmery 
     Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017.''
       I appreciate the House Committee on Armed Services' waiver 
     of consideration of provisions under its jurisdiction and its 
     subject matter as specified in your letter. I acknowledge 
     that the waiver was granted only to expedite floor 
     consideration of H.R. 3218, as amended, and does not in any 
     way waive or diminish the Committee on Armed Services' 
     jurisdictional interests over this legislation or similar 
     legislation. I will support your committee's request for 
     appointment to any House-Senate conference on H.R. 3218, as 
     amended. Finally, I will also support your request to include 
     a copy of our exchange of letters on this matter in the 
     committee report on H.R. 3218, as amended, and in the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration.
       Again, thank you for your assistance and cooperation with 
     these matters. Sincerely,
                                               David P. Roe, M.D.,
                                                         Chairman.

  Mr. WALZ. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in unwavering support of H.R. 3218.
  It is interesting, we may prove a couple of things. One is that the 
universe needs to be balanced, or God has an incredible sense of irony, 
or our democracy is resilient and strong because, after our debate over 
the last piece of legislation, I can tell you that, in the time I have 
had the privilege of representing the people of southern Minnesota, I 
am not sure there is a day that I feel more of that sense of pride and 
honor than to be here today. Much of that thanks goes to a humble man 
who won't say so himself.
  The Colmery GI Bill, in any years past, and maybe with a different 
chairman, would have been the Roe GI Bill, as the Sonny Montgomery GI 
Bill; but the chairman is a man of humbleness and passing on thanks to 
others, and it shows in giving the credit to so many Members who wrote 
and were part of this legislation.
  This is a real historic piece of work. It is hard to get big pieces 
of legislation like this done. I saw somebody had written up recently 
and said: Well, the VA Committee is moving a lot of things because it 
is easy.
  I think, after that last little debate and how this one has gone, 
there is nothing easy about it because it is not supposed to be easy. 
It is supposed to be a challenge building the coalitions necessary. It 
is supposed to be thoughtful because we are impacting generations going 
forward.
  There are so many people to thank, and the chairman started hitting 
on them; but I want to again as someone who, if not for the GI Bill, 
would not have received my education, and our lives and the trajectory 
of our lives are changed dramatically for that.
  Somebody stood in these chairs years ago and thought about putting a 
GI Bill in place that ended up benefiting me; and the idea of being 
able to pay it forward from one veteran to another, or from this House 
to another, is something that seems like it is lacking too much around 
here.
  When we get together, there is much we can do for this country. The 
improvements in the bill are wide-ranging. I just want to mention a 
couple because I think they need to be said and I think veterans are 
paying attention, Madam Speaker, and maybe some of the folks watching 
this.
  I am happy to say we are able to remove the 15-year expiration date. 
The idea of a lifetime GI Bill just goes to the reality of modern-day 
warriors; many of them serving at different times, serving later in 
life, not going right away when they get out, or even changing 
professions; and having that benefit there and holding it and enhancing 
their education is not only benefiting their lives, it benefits our 
economy.
  We know that when these wars started we had very high veteran 
unemployment rates. We are trying to figure out different ways. And as 
the chairman pointed out, using the GI Bill for STEM research and other 
ways to get a skill set is just smart legislation.
  I want to thank a few folks on the other side about understanding 
that we have one force now. We do not have an active Army and a Guard 
and Reserve that are two separate things. These warriors fight side by 
side, and their call up, when they get called up, means the same thing.
  Because of the way regulation was written, there were things in here 
that created an inequality among them. And we were happy to have a 
general with us in General Bergman, Representatives O'Rourke, Banks, 
and Radewagen, along with someone who

[[Page H6167]]

is not a member of this committee but is a co-chair on the Guard and 
Reserve Caucus. Mr. Palazzo worked to make sure that we offset those 
things to make sure our Guard and reservists receive those same 
benefits from when they were deployed.
  So this is a rare opportunity, Madam Speaker, to pass a significant 
piece of legislation that is fully paid for, compromised to in a 
bipartisan manner. The Senate is going to pick this up, I think. And I 
look forward to that day when President Trump, hopefully here towards 
the end of summer or early fall, picks that pen up and signs this and 
makes a difference in veterans' lives today and going forward.
  So my thanks once again to the chairman and his leadership for 
bringing together and building this coalition that made something that 
many of us thought about for many years; we would like to have seen got 
done. It is going to get done today.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1500

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I think one of the greatest 
things in here is the lifetime benefit. When I was in my early 
twenties, I wouldn't have put a big bet on being 40 years old. So I 
know you don't ever think you are going to get there, but you do. With 
the changing workforce today, it is a huge benefit that I think that 
veterans going forward are going to appreciate and the country will 
benefit from.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Fitzpatrick), my good friend.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I thank the chairman and the ranking 
member for their leadership on this bill.
  Since 1944, the GI Bill has provided veterans the opportunity to 
invest in themselves and their future through access to education 
benefits.
  My father attended college on the GI Bill following his service to 
our country, launching his life and putting our family on the path to 
success.
  While the world has changed since 1944, the dedication and service of 
our men and women in uniform remains constant. These volunteer warriors 
stand ready to defend our Nation in theaters around the globe. While we 
can never fully thank them for their commitment, we must endeavor to 
assist them and their families wherever possible.
  The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act improves and 
extends the benefits granted to veterans and their surviving dependents 
through the GI Bill, helping to ease the transition from Active Duty to 
civilian life by paving the way with new career opportunities and 
technical education.
  This bipartisan legislation is a crucial step to investing in the 
success of our veterans and advancing the common cause of serving those 
who have served us so honorably.
  Madam Speaker, I thank the chairman and the ranking member and the 
entire committee for their leadership.
  Mr. WALZ. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. Esty), my good friend and a stalwart supporter of 
veterans, the ranking member of the Disability Assistance and Memorial 
Affairs Subcommittee.
  Ms. ESTY of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I rise in enthusiastic 
support of the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act, or 
the new GI Bill.
  I thank Chairman Roe and Ranking Member Walz for leading the charge 
so that we can bring this important legislation to the House floor 
today.
  I have the great honor of serving on the House Veterans' Affairs 
Committee, a committee on which Democrats and Republicans work together 
and work closely with our partners, the veterans service organizations.
  The GI Bill we bring forward today is no exception. This strong 
bipartisan legislation represents the biggest expansion of veterans' 
educational benefits in a decade. It is a huge win for our Nation's 
veterans.
  The men and women of our military deserve the security of knowing 
that, upon completion of their service to our country, they will be 
able to embark on a fulfilling career and continue providing for their 
families.
  I want to highlight several of the veterans who represent why we need 
this bill today. The first is a young man from my hometown of Cheshire. 
He was a classmate of my middle son in high school, and who, at age 19, 
lost his left leg and seriously injured his right leg when his unit was 
hit by an IED in Afghanistan. He had been in the country 3 months. It 
was the third IED.
  He has been awarded a Purple Heart, but this young man and many 
others would not, under the current GI Bill, be entitled to receive 
educational benefits. That seems crazy, and it is. But this bill will 
correct that injustice and ensure that all our Purple Heart heroes, our 
American heroes are entitled to use those benefits because, regardless 
of those months, they have served this country.
  The second one I think of is a 90-plus-year-old, who doesn't like to 
disclose his age, a Navy veteran from New Britain, Connecticut. He has 
just earned his second master's degree. That is the point of the 
lifelong benefits. We need educational benefits for life.
  Again, this bill corrects the injustice for Guard and reservists, 
lifelong benefits. It is a win for America. The military is changing. 
The GI Bill needs to change with it.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Bilirakis), my distinguished colleague, a 
senior member and vice chair of the committee.
  Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I thank the chairman. I think he outdid 
himself on this one. This is outstanding stuff. There is no other word. 
It is huge. It really is. He is helping our true American heroes with 
this, and I am so proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation.
  The challenges our Nation's heroes face do not end on the 
battlefield. Education and career training programs offer veterans the 
opportunity to enter a new chapter of their lives when they return home 
from their service.
  I recently visited AmSkills, a manufacturing apprenticeship center in 
New Port Richey, Florida, to learn more about the good work they are 
doing locally to help veterans transition to civilian careers.
  The Forever GI Bill helps ensure that veterans nationwide have the 
resources to access career education programs such as AmSkills, of 
course, going to a university maybe, a community college, vocational 
training, whatever they want to do.
  Importantly, this bill allows future eligible GI Bill recipients to 
use their benefits at any point in their lives. That is incredible. It 
is long overdue, as opposed to the current 15-year time limit, which is 
so unfair.
  It also includes my provision, the VETERAN Act, which authorizes $30 
million to help the VA invest in modernizing their information 
technology systems for claims processing.

  Congress and the House Veterans' Affairs Committee would have 
oversight of the VA's proposed changes and monitor its progress. The 
provision would be a major step in helping veterans receive their 
benefits in a more timely and efficient manner.
  Overall, the legislation before us today will improve, expand, and 
modernize the GI Bill program for veterans and their surviving spouses 
and dependents. That is so very important.
  Madam Speaker, I urge passage of this great bill.
  Mr. WALZ. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Takano), the vice ranking member of the full Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs.
  Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3218, 
which secures and strengthens the GI Bill for future generations of 
veterans. It does so without cutting benefits from anyone who is 
currently serving.
  There are several provisions in this legislation worth celebrating. 
Removing time restrictions for future student veterans and making this 
a lifetime benefit, and increasing support for reservists, guardsmen, 
and their families are among the long overdue improvements to the GI 
Bill that are included in this legislation.
  But the restoration of GI Bill benefits for students defrauded by ITT 
Tech and Corinthian Colleges is particularly noteworthy for veterans in 
my district and across the country. When those two schools abruptly 
shut their doors, thousands of student veterans were left with 
nontransferable credits, depleted

[[Page H6168]]

benefits, and none of the job opportunities they were promised. By 
restoring their tuition and housing benefits, we are restoring a 
measure of justice for these veterans, and we are restoring their 
opportunity to get the education they deserve.
  I hope this is just the start of our efforts to crack down on for-
profit colleges that exploit veterans.
  Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman Roe and Ranking Member Walz for their 
leadership, as well as the other members of the committee and the 
veterans service organizations who contributed to the strength of this 
legislation.
  Madam Speaker, passing H.R. 3218 is an important step toward ensuring 
that every person who serves this Nation has the opportunity to live a 
rewarding and purposeful and prosperous civilian life. I encourage all 
Members to support this bill.
  Madam Speaker, before closing, let me just add my praise to the 
chairman for his generosity and humbleness. I recognize, too, that this 
bill does not bear his name but the name of a predecessor. That was an 
incredible gesture, Madam Speaker. I salute the chairman's leadership.
  Mr. ROE from Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Coffman), my good friend, a Marine and 
Army veteran, and senior member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee.
  Mr. COFFMAN. Madam Speaker, today the House will vote on H.R. 3218, 
the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act, the largest 
expansion of educational benefits for our veterans in over a decade.
  This legislation provides a lifetime benefit of the GI Bill, an 
additional 9 months of GI Bill eligibility for veterans pursuing a STEM 
degree, protection of GI Bill benefits for veterans impacted by a 
school's closure, and makes it easier for veterans to use their GI Bill 
for credentialing and licensure tests.
  Madam Speaker, H.R. 3218 also includes provisions from my bill, the 
GI Bill Processing Improvement Act, H.R. 2549, which ensures that 
veterans studying under the GI Bill for their military service receive 
their benefits in a timely manner.
  Madam Speaker, as a United States Army veteran who attended the 
University of Colorado under the GI Bill, and my late father, a retired 
United States Army Master Sergeant, Harold Coffman, who learned heating 
and air-conditioning repair under the GI Bill, I rise today in strong 
support of this legislation.
  Mr. WALZ. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from the 
Northern Mariana Islands (Mr. Sablan), my good friend, a member of the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee, and the voice of our Pacific Island 
veterans.
  Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the Harry W. Colmery 
Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017, a bipartisan measure of 
which I am an original cosponsor.
  Among the bill's many benefits that preceding speakers have stated, 
there are three that address issues specifically brought to me by 
veterans in my district, the Northern Mariana Islands.
  The first affects veterans who were enrolled in colleges that closed 
and who, as a result, lost their educational benefit. The bill today 
restores that benefit so those veterans can continue their education.
  The second problem my veterans brought to me has to do with post-9/11 
reservists, like those in Company E, 100th Battalion, 442nd Infantry 
Regiment, part of the Go for Broke Unit; and the 302nd Quartermaster 
Company in the Marianas; and national guardsmen, like the 368th 
Military Police Company, who were under Active Duty and who did not 
accrue education benefits. Those veterans will now have their Active 
Duty count towards the GI Bill.
  Third, the minimum GI Bill benefit for veterans with less than 36 
months of qualifying active service increases to 50 percent of the 
maximum amount payable.
  Madam Speaker, I thank House Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Roe 
and Ranking Member Walz for their leadership and commitment to working 
together for the benefit of our veterans, a truly bipartisan product of 
work.
  I also commend the veteran service organizations we worked with for 
their determination to ensure our country honors the promise made to 
those who served and sacrificed on our behalf and in service to our 
Nation.
  Madam Speaker, I ask for support for this legislation.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Rutherford), an active member of the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee.

  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise today also in strong support of 
H.R. 3218, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 
2017.
  When our brave men and women put on the uniform to protect our 
Nation, we have a sacred responsibility to provide them and their 
families with certain opportunities in repayment for their services and 
sacrifice.
  As a new generation of servicemembers are returning from the 
battlefield, we as a nation have needed to reevaluate how we better 
help our veterans succeed back home. This important legislation is an 
example of how that success for veterans can be achieved.
  As a result of the hard work of many veteran service organizations, 
the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, and countless veteran advocates, 
H.R. 3218 makes many important reforms to the GI Bill to improve 
veterans' access to education.
  One reform that I would like to highlight is a provision that I 
introduced as a stand-alone piece of legislation earlier this year 
called the Julian Woods Yellow Ribbon Program Expansion Act.
  Madam Speaker, under current law, dependents and surviving spouses of 
those killed in action who attend college on the Fry Scholarship are 
not eligible for the Yellow Ribbon Program. The Yellow Ribbon Program 
helps to cover the cost of schools with tuition above the level of what 
the GI Bill covers.

                              {time}  1515

  Since the dependents and spouses of those killed in action are not 
currently eligible for this program, they are, in fact, limited in 
their educational opportunities.
  I thank the committee, Chairman Roe, and Ranking Member Walz for 
including my bill in this legislation, and it is just one of many 
reforms that this package makes.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues' support.
  Mr. WALZ. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Khanna), a true supporter of veterans and new Member of 
the House who came with a passion for veterans.
  Mr. KHANNA. Madam Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Walz.
  I want to commend Ranking Member Walz and Chairman Roe for this 
extraordinary piece of legislation that invests in the education of our 
veterans. I also am pleased that you included Majority Leader 
McCarthy's legislation of which I was a proud original cosponsor, the 
VET TEC Act. That will allow veterans, for the first time, to take 
technology courses and learn some of the skills that are going to be 
needed for the 21st century economy.
  It is no surprise that I read that the majority leader got this idea 
from his son, who spent a lot of time out in Silicon Valley and is well 
regarded. It is really heartening to see this House come together with 
the chairman's and ranking member's leadership on the jobs of the 21st 
century and making sure our veterans have opportunities for them.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Messer), my good friend. We have served on 
the Education and the Workforce Committee together since he has been 
here, and he is in his fourth term.
  Mr. MESSER. Madam Speaker, I appreciate the chairman and his 
extraordinary leadership on this important topic.
  I rise today to urge support for this broad, bipartisan reform 
package which expands and modernizes the GI Bill to better serve our 
military families. The bill includes a bipartisan proposal that I have 
worked on with Congressman Mark Takano of California to help veteran 
students impacted by school closures, like ITT Tech and Corinthian 
Colleges, based in our home States.

[[Page H6169]]

  When ITT Tech abruptly closed its doors, 40,000 students nationwide, 
including 7,000 veterans, were left without a degree or path forward. 
Jason Nyikos, a U.S. Navy veteran from Greenfield, Indiana, in my 
district, had to start his degree completely from scratch after 
spending 2 years at ITT Tech. Not a single credit transferred, and his 
GI Bill is going to run out before he can get a new degree. He told my 
office: ``To spend 2 years of my life at a place with nothing to show 
for it is one of the biggest disappointments.''
  Jason's story is, sadly, one of thousands. It is not fair to these 
veterans that they would lose their GI benefits through no fault of 
their own, and if we really care, we need to do something about it.
  The Takano-Messer proposal restores GI Bill benefits to veterans who 
were attending ITT Tech and Corinthian Colleges when they closed so 
they can earn their degrees elsewhere. It also helps veterans who may 
be impacted by a school closure in the future.
  Our military men and women count on their GI Bill benefits to build a 
career and a life after they have served our country. This bill will 
make sure they get a chance.
  Madam Speaker, I urge your support and again thank the chairman for 
his efforts on this important issue and all of the reforms in this 
bill.
  Mr. WALZ. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, it sounds like the gentleman who 
spent 2 years and didn't have anything to show for it was in the U.S. 
Congress, but that is another story altogether.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Indiana 
(Mrs. Brooks), my good friend, whom I served with on the Education and 
the Workforce Committee.
  Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak in 
support of H.R. 3218, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational 
Assistance Act. This bipartisan package will extend and ultimately 
improve our veterans' access to GI Bill benefits.
  And while I wasn't prepared to speak to this, since my colleague from 
Indiana, Mr. Messer, just spoke, I also rise in support of the Takano-
Messer amendment to support those veterans who are not receiving 
credits now from their time at ITT Tech. So I do support that amendment 
as well.
  But I am proud to be a part of this bill that Chairman Roe has so 
ably shepherded, and I appreciate the bipartisan support on both sides 
of the aisle for including the Veterans TEST Accessibility Act. This 
act does just what the title implies: it gives our veterans simpler, 
fairer access to tests like the SAT and GRE, as well as licensing and 
certification tests, like certifications to be mechanics, firefighters, 
Realtors, to name just a few.
  Our current law requires veterans to use a full month of eligibility 
to be reimbursed for these tests. Given the relatively low cost of many 
tests, it simply isn't worth it for many veterans to lose potential 
reimbursement for an entire month of other educational expenses, like 
tuition. This provision fixes that problem. Veterans will be reimbursed 
for the amount of the test only, and they can still utilize the 
remaining eligibility to cover other educational expenses incurred that 
month.
  Our vets have the skills and experience that many universities and 
employers are looking for, but they face challenges. This commonsense 
provision will give our veterans the tools they need to compete in the 
job market and help address veteran underemployment and unemployment. 
It allows them to take what they have learned, so many skills that they 
learned prior to and during their service, and use these benefits they 
have earned to advance their education and career.
  I would like to thank Chairman Roe for his leadership, the VSOs, and 
all of our colleagues who have contributed to this important piece of 
legislation, and I urge passage of the bill.
  Mr. WALZ. Madam Speaker, may I inquire how much time I have left.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. Tenney). The gentleman from Minnesota 
has 9 minutes remaining.
  Mr. WALZ. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Once again, you heard from members of the committee, and Members of 
this House about an important piece of legislation.
  This past Saturday, I had the opportunity to meet with my hometown 
Guard unit, the 2nd Battalion of the 135th Infantry, the Red Bull 
Battalion. They came back from a mission in the Sinai.
  When they left to go to the Sinai, because of the 12304(b) orders 
that were in there, they were not eligible for certain benefits. The 
entire time they were deployed, they continued to call and asked what 
was happening on the bill. On Saturday, they had just returned, and I 
was able to tell them that we were going to vote tonight, we were going 
to move this thing, and that their questions had been responded to.
  So, retroactively, we were able to get this back to 2013. There are 
lots of good things in here that I think, as people spend a little more 
time on this, they will see, smart stuff.
  Generations of veterans have contributed to our country and bettered 
themselves through the GI Bill. It is one of those things that a 
grateful nation does, an earned benefit that has been improved with 
time.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the passage of H.R. 
3218, as amended, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  This was a process, and it took several months working with the VSOs, 
with our staffs, with Mr. Walz's team and our team and others to get 
this bill where it is. And I think, as Mr. Walz said, that as people 
dig into this bill, it is truly, I believe, an outstanding piece of 
legislation that honors the people who serve this country and will give 
them a benefit when they come home.
  If you are 25 years old and you come home and you have a job from the 
military, you separate after a few years of service, and your job 
leaves when you are 42, you have lost that benefit now.
  Now, you can go back and get retrained. We know that the average 
person is going to have five, six, seven different occupations during a 
professional working career. This will allow our veterans, I think some 
of the absolute finest people that grace this Nation, to be able to be 
the ones who are the leaders in the future because of the education 
benefit that they have earned with their service.
  I thank my friend, Mr. Walz, for his work on this and leadership on 
this, along with his team and our team here.
  Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of 
H.R. 3218, the ``Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act 
of 2017.''
  H.R. 3218 eliminates the current 15-year cap for veterans to use the 
benefits provided in the GI Bill, therefore enabling future eligible 
recipients to use their GI bill benefits for their entire lives.
  This change would greatly aid our brave veterans in facilitating the 
transition from active duty to civilian life by ensuring that veterans 
have access to retraining at any point after service to meet the needs 
of a changing economy.
  Furthermore, H.R. 3218 would enhance GI Bill benefits for survivors 
of military members killed during active duty by granting them access 
to the Yellow Ribbon Program, which is a program that covers more costs 
at private institutions of higher learning for eligible recipients.
  By expanding access to financial assistance, this bill ameliorates 
the often high cost barrier associated with higher education for 
survivors of military members killed in the line of duty.
  H.R. 3218 will also protect veteran's GI Bill benefits from the 
closures of private, for-profit universities, a development that has 
negatively impacted many student veterans across the nation.
  Madam Speaker, our veterans deserve better than to see their hard-
earned benefits lost, especially for events beyond their own control.
  This bill also increases GI Bill benefits for nine additional months 
for student veterans enrolled in STEM 5-year degree programs.
  I am pleased that this bill gives our veterans the resources they 
need to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the growing 
technology industry.
  Last, this bill would qualify post-9/11 Purple Heart recipients for 
full GI Bill benefits.
  It is imperative that service members whose active duty is cut short 
due to an injury suffered in the line of fire have their heroic service 
recognized fully when receiving GI Bill benefits.

[[Page H6170]]

  H.R. 3218 corrects previous inequities faced by our nation's brave 
veterans, and protects their future.
  I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 3218.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 3218, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



