

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4271-H4273]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   BORDER ENFORCEMENT SECURITY TASK FORCE REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 2281) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to reauthorize 
the Border Enforcement Security Task Force program within the 
Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2281

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Border Enforcement Security 
     Task Force Reauthorization Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. MODIFIED INSTRUCTIONS.

       (a) Updated Considerations for the Establishment of 
     Units.--Paragraph (2) of section 432(c) of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 240(c)) is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``the Secretary shall consider'' and inserting ``the 
     Secretary shall apply risk-based criteria that takes into 
     consideration''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting before the semicolon 
     the following: ``, including threats posed by transnational 
     criminal organizations'';
       (3) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (4) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (5) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(E) the extent to which the BEST unit would advance the 
     Department's homeland and border security strategic 
     priorities and related objectives; and
       ``(F) whether departmental Joint Task Force operations as 
     established pursuant to section 708 and other joint cross-
     border initiatives would be enhanced, improved, or otherwise 
     assisted by the BEST unit to be established.''.
       (b) Port Security.--Subsection (c) of section 432 of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 240) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) Port security best units.--A BEST unit established 
     pursuant to paragraph (2) with a port security nexus shall be 
     composed of at least one member of each of the following:
       ``(A) The Coast Guard Investigative Service.
       ``(B) The geographically-responsible Coast Guard Sector 
     Intelligence Office.''.
       (c) Updated Report Elements.--Subsection (e) of section 432 
     of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 240) is 
     amended to read as follows:
       ``(e) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this section and annually thereafter for the 
     following five years, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
     a report that includes the following:
       ``(1) A description of the effectiveness of BEST in 
     enhancing border security, disrupting and dismantling 
     transnational criminal organizations, and reducing drug 
     trafficking, arms smuggling, illegal alien trafficking and 
     smuggling, violence, and kidnapping along and across the 
     international borders of the United States, as measured by 
     crime statistics, including violent deaths, incidents of 
     violence, and drug-related arrests.
       ``(2) An assessment of how BEST enhances information-
     sharing, including the dissemination of homeland security 
     information, among Federal, State, local, tribal, and foreign 
     law enforcement agencies.
       ``(3) A description of how BEST advances the Department's 
     homeland and border security strategic priorities and 
     effectiveness of BEST in achieving related objectives.
       ``(4) An assessment of BEST's joint operational efforts 
     with departmental Joint Task Force operations established 
     pursuant to section 708 and other joint cross-border 
     initiatives.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Katko) and the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Vela) each will 
control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New York.


                             General Leave

  Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members have 
5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of H.R. 2281, the Border 
Enforcement Security Task Force Reauthorization Act of 2017.
  Mr. Speaker, we are living in unprecedented times. A quick glance of 
recent headlines shows that our Nation is suffering from the largest 
heroin epidemic in the history of the United States. In fact, just last 
week, Bloomberg Businessweek reported that heroin has become so 
pervasive in our cities and so profitable for the cartels that supply 
it that even our local law enforcement officers are disheartened and 
admit that sporadic street-level arrests seem to have little to no 
effect.
  Recently, in my district and because of the hard work of our men and 
women in law enforcement, we witnessed the dismantling of a large-scale 
organization. News reports indicate 52 individuals are facing charges 
for about 370 crimes, including operating as drug dealers and 
traffickers.
  Mr. Speaker, if these individuals had not been stopped, their 
nefarious activities would have broken the dreams of children across 
America, and their criminal enterprise would have caused millions in 
economic loss through increased incarceration, rehab, and medical 
expenses. If they had not been stopped, their actions would have 
continued to introduce poison into our communities and shattered lives.
  Even worse, a recent trend shows that the heroin hitting our streets 
is becoming more lethal as drug cartels have now begun lacing heroin 
with fentanyl, a synthetic opioid making doses more addictive and 
cheaper to produce.
  I might add parenthetically that, for 20 years as a Federal 
prosecutor, I prosecuted every possible drug organization known to man. 
I have never seen anything with the lethality that is heroin.
  This epidemic is, in large part, due to the stream of illegal 
narcotics that is flowing across our Nation's borders. However, there 
are steps that can be taken to shut down these illicit pathways. 
Thankfully, there is a Federal task force dedicated to this singular 
purpose.
  In 2005, in response to the increase in violence along the southwest 
border of Mexico, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 
Homeland Security Investigations, in partnership with U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection, as well as other Federal, State, local, and 
international law enforcement officials, created what is known as BEST, 
the Border Enforcement Security Task Force.
  To date, a total of 44 BEST units have been deployed across 16 States 
and in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. My home State of New York is 
well served by three BEST teams, two of which are situated on the 
northern border and one of which I helped stand up in Massena, New 
York.
  Nationwide, BEST teams comprise over 1,000 members who represent over 
100 law enforcement agencies that have committed to jointly investigate 
transnational criminal activity along the southwest and northern 
borders and at our Nation's major seaports.
  Since inception, their collective efforts have initiated more than 
10,654 investigations which have resulted in almost 13,000 criminal 
arrests, the seizure of 1.2 million pounds of narcotics, and more than 
$130 million. The street value of 1.2 million pounds of narcotics is 
astronomical.
  This is an impressive feat by any measure; however, as we are 
considering reauthorizing this important task force, it is important to 
highlight where there is some room for improvement. Every Congress 
looks at existing programs and makes adjustments when needed. That is 
exactly what we are proposing to do here today.

[[Page H4272]]

  Of the 44, total, BEST units, 20 of them are designated by Homeland 
Security Investigations as having a maritime security focus. While the 
Coast Guard provides critical support to Federal, State, and local 
partners through a majority of the maritime BESTs, not every maritime 
BEST is currently benefiting from Coast Guard participation.
  This bill mandates the participation of both a Coast Guard 
Investigative Service special agent and a uniformed Coast Guard 
intelligence officer on every maritime BEST. By utilizing both 
plainclothes investigators and uniformed intelligence officers, BEST 
will be able to partner with the Coast Guard in ongoing criminal 
investigations and the generation of actionable maritime intelligence.
  The Coast Guard is the only agency within DHS that is also an 
independent member of the intelligence community. This unique position, 
coupled with the fact that the Coast Guard has unparalleled maritime 
domain awareness through daily interaction with mariners and facility 
operators, makes it imperative that they are included in all maritime 
BESTS in a mandatory fashion.
  As we find ourselves halfway through Police Week this week, I want to 
take a second to pause and thank the men and women of law enforcement 
throughout this great Nation--many of whom I have stood side by side 
with for over 20 years--for all they do in keeping our country safe.
  I would also like to thank the ranking member, Mr. Vela, for 
introducing this bill, and I urge my colleagues to support the law 
enforcement community and vote in favor of reauthorizing this important 
task force.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

         House of Representatives, Committee on Transportation and 
           Infrastructure,
                                     Washington, DC, May 15, 2017.
     Hon. Michael T. McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman McCaul: I write concerning H.R. 2281, the 
     Border Enforcement Security Task Force Reauthorization Act of 
     2017. This legislation includes matters that I believe fall 
     within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
       In order to expedite floor consideration of H.R. 2281, the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure agrees to 
     forgo action on this bill. However, this is conditional on 
     our mutual understanding that forgoing consideration of the 
     bill would not prejudice the Committee with respect to the 
     appointment of conferees or to any future jurisdictional 
     claim over the subject matters contained in the bill or 
     similar legislation that fall within the Committee's Rule X 
     jurisdiction. I request you urge the Speaker to name members 
     of the Committee to any conference committee named to 
     consider such provisions.
       Please place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest into the 
     Congressional Record during consideration of the measure on 
     the House floor.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Bill Shuster,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Homeland Security,

                                     Washington, DC, May 15, 2017.
     Hon. Bill Shuster,
     Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Shuster: Thank you for your letter regarding 
     H R 2281, the ``Border Enforcement Security Task Force 
     Reauthorization Act of 2017''. I appreciate your support in 
     bringing this legislation before the House of 
     Representatives. I understand that the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, will not seek a sequential 
     referral on the bill. We appreciate your cooperation in this 
     matter.
       The Committee on Homeland Security concurs with the mutual 
     understanding that the decision not to seek a sequential 
     referral on this bill at this time does not prejudice any 
     claim the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure may 
     have on this legislation or similar legislation in the 
     future.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during consideration of this bill on the House floor. 
     I thank you for your cooperation in this matter.
           Sincerely,
                                                Michael T. McCAUL,
                         Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security.

  Mr. VELA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2281, the Border 
Enforcement Security Task Force Reauthorization Act of 2017.
  Mr. Speaker, this bill, H.R. 2281, seeks to reauthorize the Border 
Enforcement Security Task Force, or BEST, program within the Department 
of Homeland Security.
  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement leads 42 BEST units across 
16 States within the United States and Puerto Rico. Each unit is 
comprised of members from ICE's Homeland Security Investigations, U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection, as well as other Federal, State, and 
local law enforcement agencies who investigate criminal activity along 
the southwest and northern borders and at the Nation's major seaports.
  These units play a critical role in advancing DHS' border security 
efforts by ensuring all levels of domestic law enforcement are sharing 
information and leveraging resources. BEST units have been instrumental 
in coordinating joint operations with our law enforcement partners in 
Mexico to thwart threats posed by transnational criminal organizations.
  This legislation is in furtherance of my efforts as ranking member of 
the Subcommittee on Boder and Maritime Security to bolster law 
enforcement collaboration on cross-border threats and to ensure that 
resources are used in a strategic manner to effectively mitigate such 
threats, particularly in response to the drug cartels.
  Those of us representing border districts are well aware that cartels 
adapt quickly to exploit real or perceived weaknesses in our security. 
As they shift their criminal operations to new locations along our land 
borders, smuggle their contraband into the United States through our 
ports of entry, or utilize maritime routes into this country, DHS must 
be at the ready to quickly intercept and disrupt their operations.
  This legislation seeks to ensure that DHS continues to use BEST units 
to maximum effect. This bill instructs DHS, before standing up a BEST 
unit, to consider the cross-border threats posed by transnational 
criminal organizations, the Department's homeland and border security 
strategic priorities, as well as the operations of DHS' joint task 
forces and other multiagency efforts.
  H.R. 2281 also updates existing reporting requirements so that 
Congress has better information on how effectively BEST units are 
reducing criminal activity, such as the traffic of drugs, weapons, and 
people along our borders; enhancing information sharing among law 
enforcement partners; coordinating with the Department's joint task 
forces; and generally advancing the DHS homeland security and border 
security strategic priorities.
  I also want to thank my colleagues on the Border and Maritime 
Security Subcommittee who have cosponsored this legislation, including 
Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally. I urge my colleagues to support 
H.R. 2281.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2281, the Border Enforcement Security Task Force 
Reauthorization Act of 2017, is a commonsense, bipartisan bill that 
seeks to maximize the effectiveness of the successful border security 
program and ensure that, going forward, the program continues to 
contribute to making our Nation more safe and secure.
  H.R. 2281 was approved by voice vote by the full committee on May 3 
and enjoys broad, bipartisan support.
  Before I yield back, I would like to thank Chairman McCaul and 
Ranking Member Thompson, as well as Subcommittee Chairwoman McSally, 
for their work on this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, I once again urge my colleagues to adopt this 
legislation.
  I want to note that, back in the mid-nineties when I was starting out 
my career as a Federal organized crime prosecutor, I was set on the 
border in El Paso, Texas, and I had a frontline view, as I was going 
after cartel-level drug traffickers back then, of just what a problem 
the border is.
  Many people think of the border's primary problem being illegal 
aliens, but I can tell you firsthand--and I think my colleague from 
Texas will agree with me--that drug trafficking remains a gigantic 
issue, and the poison that is killing our kids is streaming across the 
southwest border in particular.

[[Page H4273]]

  It is imperative that bills like this continue. It is imperative that 
Congressman Vela, Congresswoman McSally, and the others on their 
subcommittee continue their great work identifying issues along the 
border, both north and south, and that the BEST concept continues and, 
indeed, hopefully, expands in the future. Targeted law enforcement that 
involves people on both sides of the border and law enforcement is the 
only way we are ever going to solve this problem. I commend them for 
their work on this.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2281 the 
``Border Enforcement Security Task Force Reauthorization Act of 2017.''
  As a Senior Member on the House Committee on Homeland Security; and 
former Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime 
Security, I know well the importance of protecting our nation's 
borders.
  I thank my colleague Congressman Vela for sponsoring this bipartisan 
legislation, which reauthorizes the Border Enforcement Security Task 
Force (BEST) program.
  An escalation in drug trafficking and transnational criminal activity 
along our nation's southern border has led to record levels of violence 
and drug trafficking-related homicides.
  Despite significant efforts to combat the drug trade, many 
governments in the region suffer from overwhelmed criminal justice 
systems and law enforcement agencies.
  There must be a multi-pronged approach to solving the drug crisis in 
the United States, it must include treatment upon demand; education; 
increase resources for border interdiction and seizure of illicit drugs 
and advanced technology to detect and track those who may be engaged in 
illegal activity along the border.
  The Border Enforcement Security Task Force is accomplishing the 
important law enforcement component of border security.
  The Border Enforcement Security Task Force achieves its goal of 
border security enhancement by facilitating collaboration among 
federal, state, local, tribal, and foreign law enforcement agencies to 
execute coordinated activities in furtherance of border security and 
homeland security; and enhancing information-sharing, including the 
dissemination of homeland security information among such agencies.
  The BEST program is currently administered by DHS, and involves 
information sharing and law-enforcement operations between personnel 
from federal, state, local, tribal, and foreign law-enforcement 
agencies to combat criminal activity near the United States borders.
  This program has established teams of law enforcement agents from 
over 100 law enforcement agencies that form units to investigate 
transnational criminal activity.
  This approach supports better cooperation and collaboration among 
federal, state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies when 
investigating criminal activity along the southwest and northern 
borders, as well as at the nation's major seaports.
  Since their inception, BEST Units have collectively initiated more 
than 10,654 cases.
  These actions have resulted in more than:
  2,718 criminal arrests
  7,245 administrative arrests
  110,711 pounds of cocaine
  5,517 pounds of ecstasy
  1,764 pounds of heroin
  1,036,749 pounds of marijuana
  6,325 pounds of methamphetamine
  2,988,561 rounds of ammunition
  4,657 vehicles
  $130.2 million in U.S. currency
  15,062 weapons
  This bill instructs the Secretary of Homeland Security to also 
consider:
  The cross-border threats posed by transnational criminal 
organizations;
  The Department's homeland and border security strategic priorities; 
and
  The departmental Joint Task Forces and other multi-agency cross-
border operations when establishing new BEST Units.
  In addition, this bill would update the Secretary's existing 
reporting requirement to provide an assessment of how BEST Units 
enhance information-sharing among law enforcement partners, coordinate 
with Departmental Joint Task Forces, and advance the Department's 
homeland and border security strategic priorities.
  This legislation will improve and update the information sharing 
practices between our law enforcement agencies so they will operate in 
a cohesive manner.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2281 the BEST 
program because it had proven throughout the years to improve our 
border security, along with improving how our law enforcement agencies 
operate and share vital information.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Katko) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2281, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



