

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4056-S4057]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 425

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 425, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve the historic 
rehabilitation tax credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 635

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 635, a bill to 
amend title 28, United States Code, to prohibit the exclusion of 
individuals from service on a Federal jury on account of sexual 
orientation or gender identity.

[[Page S4057]]

  



                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill 
to amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for 
early detection, diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-
hearing newborns, infants, and young children.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to 
authorize the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the 
National Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in 
the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes 
relating to appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under 
the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1122

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1122, a bill 
to amend the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to clarify when 
the time period for the issuance of citations under such Act begins and 
to require a rule to clarify that an employer's duty to make and 
maintain accurate records of work-related injuries and illnesses is an 
ongoing obligation.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th 
anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1356

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1356, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to authorize the use of Post-9/11 
Educational Assistance to pursue independent study programs at certain 
educational institutions that are not institutions of higher learning, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1404

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1404, a bill to amend the Natural Gas Act to 
provide for expanded natural gas exports.


                                S. 1414

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1414, a bill to state the 
policy of the United States on the minimum number of available battle 
force ships.


                                S. 1455

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1455, a bill to amend the United 
States Energy Storage Competitiveness Act of 2007 to direct the 
Secretary of Energy to establish new goals for the Department of Energy 
relating to energy storage and to carry out certain demonstration 
projects relating to energy storage.


                                S. 1457

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1457, a bill to amend the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 to direct the Secretary of Energy to carry out 
demonstration projects relating to advanced nuclear reactor 
technologies to support domestic energy needs.


                                S. 1474

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1474, a bill to 
prohibit the use of fiscal year 2018 funds for the closure, 
consolidation, or elimination of certain offices of the Environmental 
Protection Agency.


                                S. 1512

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1512, a bill to prohibit 
the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of 
Transportation, and the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality 
from considering, in taking any action, the social cost of carbon, the 
social cost of methane, the social cost of nitrous oxide, or the social 
cost of any other greenhouse gas, unless compliant with Office of 
Management and Budget guidance, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1547

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1547, a bill to nullify the 
effect of the recent Executive order that establishes an ``election 
integrity'' commission, which will be used and is designed to support 
policies that will suppress the vote in minority and poor communities 
across the United States.


                                S. 1564

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1564, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permit legally married same-sex 
couples to amend their filing status for returns outside the 3-year 
limitation.


                              S. RES. 114

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 114, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate on humanitarian crises in Nigeria, 
Somalia, South Sudan, and Yemen.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 139, a resolution condemning the Government of 
Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its Baha'i minority and its 
continued violation of the International Covenants on Human Rights.

                          ____________________



