

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2725-S2726]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    SENATE RESOLUTION 151--COMMENDING THE NORTHWEST MISSOURI STATE 
 UNIVERSITY BEARCATS ON THEIR NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
              DIVISION II NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP VICTORIES

  Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill) submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 151

       Whereas, on December 17, 2016, the Northwest Missouri State 
     University football team defeated the University of North 
     Alabama by a score of 29 to 3 in the National Collegiate 
     Athletic Association (referred to in this preamble as the 
     ``NCAA'') Division II national championship game in Kansas 
     City, Kansas;
       Whereas the victory was the sixth Division II national 
     championship for Northwest Missouri State University since 
     1996 and the fourth since 2006;
       Whereas the Bearcats have won 55 games and lost 2 games 
     over the past 4 seasons, with 30 straight victories over the 
     last 2 years;
       Whereas former head coach Adam Dorrel is 1 of just 3 head 
     coaches in Division II football to win 3 national titles, and 
     athletic director Mel Tjeerdsma has the distinction of being 
     1 of the other coaches to accomplish that feat;
       Whereas, on March 25, 2017, the Northwest Missouri State 
     men's basketball team defeated Fairmont State University in 
     the NCAA Division II national championship, a first in the 
     history of the Bearcats basketball program;
       Whereas the Bearcats men's basketball team finished the 
     2016-2017 season with a 29-1 record, earning coach Ben 
     McCollum his third Mid-America Intercollegiate Athletics 
     Association Coach of the Year award;
       Whereas Bearcat guard, Justin Pitts, was named--
       (1) Division II Player of the Year by the National 
     Association of Basketball Coaches; and
       (2) Division II Bulletin Player of the Year; and
       Whereas Northwest Missouri State University became the 
     first Division II school to win championships for football 
     and men's basketball in the same academic year: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) commends Northwest Missouri State University for their 
     Division II national championship victories in football and 
     men's basketball;
       (2) recognizes the athletic prowess, hard work, and 
     dedication exhibited by the players, coaches, support staff, 
     and student body of Northwest Missouri State University; and
       (3) congratulates the city of Maryville, Missouri, and 
     Bearcat fans and alumni around the world.

[[Page S2726]]

  

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President: This year, Northwest Missouri State 
University set a record when it became the first Division II school to 
win the men's basketball and football championships in the same season.
  It also became the first Division I or II school in the past decade 
to win titles in both those sports in the same year.
  Located in Maryville, about one hundred miles north of Kansas City, 
Northwest Missouri State University was established in 1905.
  With five NCAA championships already under their belt, Bearcats 
football began their 2016 season with the goal of adding another title 
to their great program. Under head Coach Adam Dorrel, they finished 
their record-setting year with a victory over the University of North 
Alabama in the brutally cold Division II championship game last 
December. The Bearcats have now gone 55-2 over four seasons, and their 
30 straight victories over the last two years is the longest current 
win streak in all of NCAA football.
  But the men's basketball team gave Bearcats fans plenty more to cheer 
about. After a very successful regular season, the Bearcats entered the 
Division II tournament with a 29-1 record. And on March 25, they 
defeated Fairmont State in the NCAA Division II championship game, a 
first in the program's history.
  Finishing the year with a near perfect record, Coach Ben McCollum 
earned his third MIAA Coach of the Year honor. And the Bearcats' guard, 
Justin Pitts, earned several honors and was named the DII Bulletin 
Player of the Year.
  Congratulations to Northwest Missouri State University on a 
phenomenal year. Fans across the state are excited for another great 
year as the Bearcats spend the off-season preparing to defend their 
hard fought championship titles.

                          ____________________



