

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2553-S2554]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 942. A bill to require a plan to combat international 
     travel by terrorists and foreign fighters, accelerate the 
     transfer of certain border security systems to foreign 
     partner governments, establish minimum international border 
     security standards, authorize the suspension of foreign 
     assistance to countries not making significant efforts to 
     comply with such minimum standards, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mr. Lankford, and Mr. 
             Daines):
       S. 943. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     conduct an accurate comprehensive student count for the 
     purposes of calculating formula allocations for programs 
     under the Johnson-O'Malley Act, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. 
             Roberts, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. 
             Ernst, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Thune, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Franken, 
             Mr. Donnelly, and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 944. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to reform and extend the incentives for biodiesel; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 945. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to authorize funds to 
     identify and eliminate excessive occupational licensure; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. McCain, Mr. Hatch, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Mr. Lee, Mr. Tillis, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. 
             Tester, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 946. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to hire additional Veterans Justice Outreach Specialists to 
     provide treatment court services to justice-involved 
     veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. HASSAN (for herself, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Franken, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 947. A bill to protect passengers on flights in air 
     transportation from being denied boarding involuntarily, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Franken, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Murphy, Mr. Peters, Mr. Reed, Mr. Schatz, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Van Hollen, 
             and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 948. A bill to designate as wilderness certain Federal 
     portions of the red rock canyons of the Colorado Plateau and 
     the Great Basin Deserts in the State of Utah for the benefit 
     of present and future generations of people in the United 
     States; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 949. A bill to require the Director of the Office of 
     Personnel Management to create a classification that more 
     accurately reflects the vital role of wildland firefighters; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 950. A bill to correct problems pertaining to human 
     resources for career and volunteer personnel engaged in 
     wildland fire and structure fire; to the Committee on

[[Page S2554]]

     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Hatch, 
             and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 951. A bill to reform the process by which Federal 
     agencies analyze and formulate new regulations and guidance 
     documents, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 952. A bill to increase the role of the financial 
     industry in combating human trafficking; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. HEINRICH:
       S. 953. A bill to require the United States Secret Service 
     to make certain White House visitor logs available to the 
     public, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.

                          ____________________



