

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H3321-H3324]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Foster, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Lee, and 
             Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 2303. A bill to establish a task force to share best 
     practices on computer programming and coding for elementary 
     schools and secondary schools, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             Slaughter, and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 2304. A bill to establish a grant program to promote 
     the development of career education programs in computer 
     science in secondary and postsecondary education; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Polis, Mr. Kilmer, 
             and Ms. Esty of Connecticut):
       H.R. 2305. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     award grants to State educational agencies to develop 
     comprehensive plans to strengthen elementary and secondary 
     computer science education, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 2306. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to impose a tax on certain trading transactions; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself and Mrs. Brooks 
             of Indiana):
       H.R. 2307. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to protect coverage for screening mammography, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mrs. Brooks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Takano, and Mr. Stivers):
       H.R. 2308. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to support maker education 
     and makerspaces; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for himself and Mrs. 
             Lowey):

[[Page H3322]]

  

       H.R. 2309. A bill to enhance the security operations of the 
     Transportation Security Administration and stability of the 
     transportation security workforce by applying the personnel 
     system of title 5 of the U.S. Code to employees of the 
     Transportation Security Administration who provide screening 
     of all passengers and property, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. 
             Peterson, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Ms. Jenkins of 
             Kansas, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mrs. 
             Walorski, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. 
             Posey, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Tipton, Mr. King of Iowa, 
             Mr. Walberg, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. Weber 
             of Texas, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Flores, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. 
             Carter of Georgia, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Yoder, Mr. 
             Lamborn, Mr. Jones, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Blum, 
             Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Bost, Mr. Hudson, Mr. 
             Brat, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Babin, Mr. Johnson 
             of Ohio, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Young of Alaska, 
             Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Barletta, and Mr. 
             Smith of Missouri):
       H.R. 2310. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make members of health care sharing ministries 
     eligible to establish health savings accounts; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Massie, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Titus, Mr. 
             Young of Iowa, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, and Mr. 
             Loebsack):
       H.R. 2311. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program to provide veterans the 
     option of using an alternative appeals process to more 
     quickly determine claims for disability compensation; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 2312. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for covered agreements and contracts between the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs and eligible academic 
     affiliates for the mutually beneficial coordination, use, or 
     exchange of health-care resources, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself, Mr. Evans, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Ms. Clarke of New York, and Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio):
       H.R. 2313. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to encourage hiring unemployed individuals; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GALLEGO:
       H.R. 2314. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     prohibit certain acts of nepotism, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Hunter, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, and Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 2315. A bill to posthumously award the Congressional 
     Gold Medal to each of Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. 
     Christopher Stevens, and Sean Smith in recognition of their 
     contributions to the Nation; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Gene Green of Texas):
       H.R. 2316. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act and the 
     Energy Policy Act of 1992 to repeal provisions relating only 
     to the Allegheny National Forest; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Coffman, Mr. Cole, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Cummings, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Delaney, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Guthrie, Mrs. Hartzler, 
             Mr. Himes, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Sires, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Tonko, 
             Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Cooper, Mr. Rush, Mr. Evans, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. McEachin, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Larsen of Washington, 
             Mr. Correa, and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H.R. 2317. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint coins in commemoration of the United States Coast 
     Guard; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER (for herself, Mr. Brown of Maryland, 
             Mr. Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. Jones, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Rosen, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Speier, and Ms. DeLauro):
       H.R. 2318. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make employers of spouses of military personnel 
     eligible for the work opportunity credit; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself, Ms. Moore, and Mr. 
             Stivers):
       H.R. 2319. A bill to protect the investment choices of 
     investors in the United States, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for himself, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Cardenas, Mrs. Torres, Mr. 
             Denham, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Jones, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 2320. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to place certain lands in Skagit and San Juan Counties, 
     Washington, into trust for the Samish Indian Nation, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Thomas 
             J. Rooney of Florida, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Panetta, and 
             Mrs. Bustos):
       H.R. 2321. A bill to amend the Agricultural Trade Act of 
     1978 to extend and expand the Market Access Program and the 
     Foreign Market Development Program; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Hudson, Mr. 
             Pittenger, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 2322. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to educate certain staff of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs and to inform veterans about the Injured and 
     Amputee Veterans Bill of Rights, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Mr. Schiff, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Cardenas, and Ms. Sanchez):
       H.R. 2323. A bill to establish the San Gabriel National 
     Recreation Area as a unit of the National Park System in the 
     State of California, to modify the boundaries of the San 
     Gabriel Mountains National Monument in the State of 
     California to include additional National Forest System land, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. CICILLINE:
       H.R. 2324. A bill to amend title 39, United States Code, to 
     provide that post offices shall comply with public 
     accommodation standards under the Americans with Disabilities 
     Act of 1990, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Kildee, Mrs. Lawrence, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Lee, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Norton, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Connolly, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Jeffries, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 2325. A bill to require the Attorney General to ensure 
     that State-appointed emergency financial managers do not 
     violate Constitutional protections and that they ensure 
     public health and safety, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Faso, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Peters, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Suozzi, 
             Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and Mr. Schneider):
       H.R. 2326. A bill to accelerate reductions in climate 
     pollution in order to leave a better planet for future 
     generations, and to create a bipartisan commission to develop 
     economically viable policies to achieve science-based 
     emissions reduction targets; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Hensarling, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Jones, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, 
             Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Pingree, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sablan, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mr. Sessions, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Stefanik, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Knight, 
             Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Barton, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Miss 
             Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
             Rutherford, Mr. O'Rourke, Ms.

[[Page H3323]]

             Kaptur, Mr. Trott, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Titus, 
             Mr. Brat, Mrs. Comstock, and Mr. Walker):
       H.R. 2327. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to make grants to eligible organizations to provide 
     service dogs to veterans with severe post-traumatic stress 
     disorder, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. FUDGE (for herself, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. McGovern, 
             Ms. Norton, and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 2328. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to establish a low-income sewer and water 
     assistance pilot program; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
       H.R. 2329. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish a transformational infrastructure competitive 
     grant program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself and Ms. Speier):
       H.R. 2330. A bill to make funds available for fisheries 
     resource disaster assistance for the 2016 Yurok Tribe Klamath 
     River Chinook salmon fishery disaster, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself and Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 2331. A bill to require a new or updated Federal 
     website that is intended for use by the public to be mobile 
     friendly, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr. Sensenbrenner):
       H.R. 2332. A bill to reform the Federal Crop Insurance Act 
     and reduce Federal spending on crop insurance; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, and 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California):
       H.R. 2333. A bill to amend the Small Business Investment 
     Act of 1958 to increase the amount of leverage made available 
     to small business investment companies; to the Committee on 
     Small Business.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Collins of 
             New York, Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Ms. Speier, and Mr. Sarbanes):
       H.R. 2334. A bill to amend the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to exempt from 
     sequestration certain user fees of the Food and Drug 
     Administration; to the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 2335. A bill to direct the Director of the Government 
     Publishing Office to provide members of the public with 
     Internet access to Congressional Research Service reports, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 2336. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize a primary and behavioral health care integration 
     grant program; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Engel, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico):
       H.R. 2337. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for a State Medicaid option to enhance 
     administrative matching funds to support statewide behavioral 
     health access program activities for children under 21 years 
     of age, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 2338. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to prohibit 501(c)(4) entities from participating in, or 
     intervening in (including the publishing or distributing of 
     statements), any political campaign; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. MARCHANT:
       H.R. 2339. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify S corporation shareholder and preferred stock 
     rules with respect to banks; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mr. Duffy, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Herrera Beutler, and Mr. 
             Kilmer):
       H.R. 2340. A bill to extend the Secure Rural Schools and 
     Community Self-Determination Act of 2000; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 2341. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify the retirement income account rules relating 
     to church-controlled organizations; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
       H.R. 2342. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and 
     the Public Health Service Act to require employees to be 
     provided with information about the availability of special 
     enrollment periods to obtain marketplace coverage and 
     Medicare coverage upon termination or separation, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 2343. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow taxpayers to designate income tax overpayments 
     as contributions to the United States Library Trust Fund; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 2344. A bill to make funds available for fisheries 
     resource disaster assistance for the 2015-16 Dungeness crab 
     and rock crab fisheries disaster, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. STEWART (for himself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas, Mr. McKinley, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Sinema, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, and Mr. 
             Bishop of Utah):
       H.R. 2345. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to study the feasibility of designating a simple, 
     easy-to-remember dialing code to be used for a national 
     suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself and Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen):
       H.R. 2346. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to protect the well-being of soldiers and their families, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself and Mrs. Napolitano):
       H.R. 2347. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to establish a regional infrastructure accelerator program to 
     facilitate investments in and the financing of certain 
     infrastructure projects, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. TORRES:
       H.R. 2348. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to issue American Infrastructure Opportunity Bonds when the 
     real rate equals zero percent or less and deposit the 
     proceeds from such bonds into the Highway Trust Fund, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. TURNER:
       H.R. 2349. A bill to require the Secretary of 
     Transportation to modify a regulation regarding the 
     involuntary deplaning or denial of boarding a flight of any 
     passenger on an oversold flight to accommodate a member of 
     the air carrier's flight crew or staff; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H. Con. Res. 53. Concurrent resolution providing for a 
     correction in the enrollment of H.R. 244; considered and 
     agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Allen, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. 
             Byrne, and Mr. Raskin):
       H. Res. 307. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives relating to protecting freedom of speech, 
     thought, and expression at institutions of higher education; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
       H. Res. 309. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Poppy Day; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             Gallego, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Speier, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H. Res. 310. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of May as ``National Bladder Cancer Awareness 
     Month''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself and Mrs. Wagner):
       H. Res. 311. A resolution recognizing that for 50 years the 
     Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) has worked 
     toward stability, prosperity, and peace in Southeast Asia; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. 
             Emmer, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Bost, and Mr. 
             McGovern):
       H. Res. 312. A resolution recognizing the roles and 
     contributions of America's teachers to building and enhancing 
     the Nation's civic, cultural, and economic well-being; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. THOMAS J. ROONEY of Florida:
       H. Res. 313. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to exclude certain provisions relating to 
     water resources development projects of the Corps of

[[Page H3324]]

     Engineers or the Bureau of Reclamation from the definition of 
     congressional earmark, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Rules.

                          ____________________



