

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 114 (Thursday, July 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 114 (Thursday, July 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5386]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 3163. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for a home infusion therapy services 
     temporary transitional payment under the Medicare program; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Thompson 
             of California, and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 3164. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to expand access to home dialysis therapy; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself and Mr. King of 
             New York):
       H.R. 3165. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program to provide grants to 
     veterans service organizations for upgrading local chapter 
     facilities, including technology at such facilities, in rural 
     areas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 3166. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide under the Medicare program for 
     independent accreditation for dialysis facilities and 
     assurance of high quality surveys with respect to such 
     facilities; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHWEIKERT (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, 
             Mr. Meadows, and Mr. Fortenberry):
       H.R. 3167. A bill to provide that, in the event that the 
     Secretary of the Treasury estimates that the debt ceiling 
     will be reached, the Secretary is required to issue GDP-
     linked bonds to pay the principal and interest on the public 
     debt and the President is authorized to request the 
     rescission of certain unobligated balances and sell certain 
     mortgage-related assets, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Financial Services, the Budget, and Rules, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself and Mr. Levin):
       H.R. 3168. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide continued access to specialized 
     Medicare Advantage plans for special needs individuals, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Mr. McKinley, Mr. 
             Norcross, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Pocan, and Mr. Lynch):
       H. Res. 430. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of Journeyman Lineman Recognition Day; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



