

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2964]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. Leahy, and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 1127. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prevent unjust and irrational criminal punishments; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 1128. A bill to expand the Staffing for Adequate Fire 
     and Emergency Response grant program to include grants for 
     the support of changing the status of part-time or paid on 
     call firefighters to full-time firefighters, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr. Thune, and Mr. 
             Nelson):
       S. 1129. A bill to authorize appropriations for the Coast 
     Guard, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. 
             Gardner):
       S. 1130. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to create a sustainable future for rural healthcare; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 1131. A bill to require reporting regarding certain drug 
     price increases, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. 
             King):
       S. 1132. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to make permanent the removal of the rental cap for 
     durable medical equipment under the Medicare program with 
     respect to speech generating devices; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Cornyn, 
             Mr. Boozman, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Crapo, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Tillis, and Mr. Young):
       S. 1133. A bill to repeal changes made by health care 
     reform laws to the Medicare exception to the prohibition on 
     certain physician referrals for hospitals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Tillis, Mr. 
             Blunt, Mr. Boozman, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Daines, Mrs. 
             Fischer, Mr. Heller, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Rubio, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Strange, and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 1134. A bill to protect law enforcement officers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Brown, and 
             Mr. Murphy):
       S. 1135. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to clarify the Federal Pell Grant duration limits of 
     borrowers who attend an institution of higher education that 
     closes or commits fraud or other misconduct, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1136. A bill to improve the structure of the Federal 
     Pell Grant program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CARDIN:
       S. 1137. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act and 
     the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to include provisions 
     relating to drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 1138. A bill to rescind $500,000 a week from the Office 
     of the Secretary of Education until the Secretary of 
     Education reconsiders Upward Bound applications that were 
     rejected due to arbitrary formatting issues; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Moran, and Ms. 
             Heitkamp):
       S. 1139. A bill to amend the Financial Stability Act of 
     2010 to modify the requirements of stress tests; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Udall):
       S. 1140. A bill to repeal the Congressional Review Act, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1141. A bill to ensure that the United States promotes 
     the meaningful participation of women in mediation and 
     negotiation processes seeking to prevent, mitigate, or 
     resolve violent conflict; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 1142. A bill to extend the deadline for commencement of 
     construction of certain hydroelectric projects; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



