

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5112]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            PETITIONS, ETC.

  Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions and papers were laid on the 
clerk's desk and referred as follows:

       54. The SPEAKER presented a petition of the City Council of 
     Akron, OH, relative to Resolution No. 184-2017, expressing 
     opposition to the proposed federal budget put forth by 
     President Trump; urging President Trump, members of Congress, 
     and other policy makers in Washington to pass a fiscally 
     responsible budget nation; and declaring an emergency; which 
     was referred to the Committee on the Budget.
       55. Also, a petition of the Town of Conway, MA, relative to 
     a Resolution calling upon the Massachusetts Legislature and 
     the United States Congress to implement Carbon Fee and 
     Dividend (or ``Rebate''), placing a steadily rising fee on 
     carbon-based fuels, and returning all fees collected, minus 
     administrative costs, to households; which was referred to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
       56. Also, a petition of City Council of Akron, OH, relative 
     to Resolution No. 185-2017, expressing opposition to the 
     United States' recent withdraw from the Paris Agreement on 
     Climate Control (the ``Paris Agreement''); offering support 
     for the Paris Agreement and its goal of combating climate 
     change on an international level; and declaring an emergency; 
     which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
       57. Also, a petition of the City Commission of Miami, FL, 
     relative to Resolution R-17-0208, urging President Donald J. 
     Trump and the members of the United States Congress to grant 
     temporary protective status to Haitians in the United States; 
     which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.


