

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6514-H6517]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BYRNE (for himself, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Walberg, Mr. 
             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Guthrie, 
             Mr. Rokita, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Messer, Mr. Grothman, 
             Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Allen, Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. 
             Francis Rooney of Florida, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Garrett, 
             Mr. Smucker, Mr. Ferguson, Mrs. Handel, Mr. Chabot, 
             Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Barr, Mr. 
             Perry, Mr. Rouzer, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, 
             Mr. Collins of Georgia, and Mr. Correa):
       H.R. 3441. A bill to clarify the treatment of two or more 
     employers as joint employers under the National Labor 
     Relations Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BUDD:
       H.R. 3442. A bill to provide for a study and 
     reconsideration by Congress of certain major rules, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. DeLBENE (for herself, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Speier, Ms. Norton, Mr. Meeks, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Takano, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Engel, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Moore, Mr. Welch, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Heck, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Vargas, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. 
             Bordallo, and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 3443. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     prohibit wellness programs, including those offered by health 
     insurance issuers or in connection with a group health plan, 
     from disclosing personally identifiable information related 
     to individuals' use or non-use of contraceptives; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. PINGREE:
       H.R. 3444. A bill to decrease the incidence of food waste, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, Education 
     and the Workforce, Energy and Commerce, Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and House Administration, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Smith of New Jersey, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 3445. A bill to enhance the transparency and 
     accelerate the impact of programs under the African Growth 
     and Opportunity Act and the Millennium Challenge Corporation, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ISSA:
       H.R. 3446. A bill to help States combat abuse of 
     occupational licensing laws by economic incumbents, to 
     promote competition, to encourage innovation, to protect 
     consumers, and to facilitate the restoration of antitrust 
     immunity to State occupational boards, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Harper, and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico):
       H.R. 3447. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide prescription drug plans under part D 
     of the Medicare program with parts A and B Medicare claims 
     data to promote the appropriate use of medications and 
     improve health outcomes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. STEWART:
       H.R. 3448. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for penalties for the unauthorized disclosure of 
     classified information to a person not authorized to receive 
     such information; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Butterfield, and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 3449. A bill to require auto dealers to fix 
     outstanding safety recalls before selling or leasing a used 
     passenger motor vehicle; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Pocan, and Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico):
       H.R. 3450. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide protections for consumers against excessive, 
     unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory increases in premium 
     rates; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DENHAM (for himself and Mr. Valadao):
       H.R. 3451. A bill to amend title III of the Public Health 
     Service Act to expand the program for payments to teaching 
     health centers with GME programs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WEBER of Texas:
       H.R. 3452. A bill to amend section 5307 of title 49, United 
     States Code, with respect to the treatment of a community as 
     an urbanized area following a major disaster; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 3453. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a standard deduction for the trade or 
     business expenses of artists; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia:
       H.R. 3454. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     reauthorize regional economic and infrastructure development 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ABRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Peterson, and Mr. 
             Crawford):
       H.R. 3455. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat certain farming business machinery and 
     equipment as 5-year property for purposes of depreciation; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN:
       H.R. 3456. A bill to amend title 39, United States Code, to 
     provide that care packages mailed to a member of the Armed 
     Forces by any family member shall be carried at no cost to 
     the family member, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Ms. Eshoo):
       H.R. 3457. A bill to require the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to conduct an evaluation on the extent to which 
     the Medicare and Medicaid programs provide reasonable 
     accommodations to individuals who are blind or visually 
     impaired; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. McEachin, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Suozzi, and Mr. Vargas):
       H.R. 3458. A bill to require certain semiautomatic pistols 
     manufactured, imported, or sold by Federal firearms licensees 
     to be capable of microstamping ammunition, and the prohibit 
     the removal, obliteration, or alteration of the microstamped 
     code or microstamping capability of a firearm; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 3459. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to make certain improvements in the transparency of 
     the personnel vacancies and staffing levels of the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BUTTERFIELD (for himself, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Ms. Adams, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Hudson, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Walker, Mr. Budd, Mr. McHenry, 
             and Mr. Meadows):
       H.R. 3460. A bill to designate the United States courthouse 
     located at 323 East Chapel Hill Street in Durham, North 
     Carolina, as the ``John Hervey Wheeler United States 
     Courthouse''; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
       H.R. 3461. A bill to amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 
     to develop and test an expanded and advanced role for direct 
     care workers who provide long-term services and supports to 
     older individuals in efforts to coordinate care and improve 
     the efficiency of service delivery; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Costa, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr.

[[Page H6515]]

             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Khanna, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. Payne, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Sanford, Ms. Schakowsky, and Mr. Vargas):
       H.R. 3462. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978 to provide that the Director of the Office of Government 
     Ethics may be removed only for neglect of duty or malfeasance 
     in office; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself and Mr. 
             Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 3463. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide greater support to students with dependents, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Cummings, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             Ms. Fudge, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Langevin, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Rush, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 3464. A bill to prohibit firearms dealers from selling 
     a firearm prior to the completion of a background check; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana):
       H.R. 3465. A bill to amend title IV of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure funding for grants to promote responsible 
     fatherhood and strengthen low-income families, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Agriculture, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Nolan, Mr. McNerney, and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 3466. A bill to provide support for pre-kindergarten 
     education through an Early Education Trust Fund, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Pocan, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Matsui, 
             Mr. Ellison, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Nadler, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 3467. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 and the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 to prevent wage 
     theft and assist in the recovery of stolen wages, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Labor to administer grants to 
     prevent wage and hour violations, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Ms. Norton, and Mr. 
             Conyers):
       H.R. 3468. A bill to provide for temporary financing of 
     short-time compensation programs; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee:
       H.R. 3469. A bill to designate the bridge located in Blount 
     County, Tennessee, on the Foothills Parkway (commonly known 
     as ``Bridge 2'') as the ``Dean Stone Bridge''; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD:
       H.R. 3470. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     specify the circumstances in which a person may acquire 
     geolocation information, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Mr. Evans):
       H.R. 3471. A bill to amend section 203(b)(5) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to implement new reforms, and 
     to reauthorize the EB-5 Regional Center Program, in order to 
     promote and reform foreign capital investment and job 
     creation in communities in the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico:
       H.R. 3472. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, 
     with respect to air cargo in Puerto Rico, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr. Cole, Ms. McCollum, 
             Mr. Mullin, Mrs. Napolitano, Mrs. Torres, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Ms. Moore, Mr. Gallagher, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Issa, and Mrs. Noem):
       H.R. 3473. A bill to amend section 520E of the Public 
     Health Service Act to require States and their designees 
     receiving grants for development and implementation of 
     statewide suicide early intervention and prevention 
     strategies to collaborate with each Federally recognized 
     Indian tribe, tribal organization, and urban Indian 
     organization in the State; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA:
       H.R. 3474. A bill to provide for the establishment of an 
     accountable and humane border security strategy for the 
     international land borders of the United States, address 
     cultural, economic, ecological, environmental and 
     humanitarian impacts of border security infrastructure, 
     measures, and activities along the international land borders 
     of the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Armed Services, the Judiciary, Natural 
     Resources, Agriculture, Foreign Affairs, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE:
       H.R. 3475. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to 
     permit certain vehicles to continue to operate on an 
     Interstate System route in the State of Kentucky; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
       H.R. 3476. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the cover-over of rum excise tax revenue; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carter 
             of Georgia, and Mr. Krishnamoorthi):
       H.R. 3477. A bill to deem the compliance date for amended 
     energy conservation standards for ceiling fan light kits to 
     be January 21, 2020; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             McNerney, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mr. Ellison, and Ms. Roybal-Allard):
       H.R. 3478. A bill to eliminate the discount for UHF 
     television stations for purposes of the limitation on the 
     aggregate national audience reach of television broadcast 
     stations in which a party may have a cognizable interest; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HURD (for himself, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Valadao, Mr. 
             Knight, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 3479. A bill to improve border security, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
       H.R. 3480. A bill to amend the GONE Act to provide for 
     additional reports on the status of grant awards from 
     agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
       H.R. 3481. A bill to require the inclusion of audit 
     information on the website required by the Federal Funding 
     Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 3482. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to expand the use of telehealth under the 
     Medicare program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas:
       H.R. 3483. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require as a condition of the earned income tax 
     credit that an individual be allowed to engage in employment 
     in the United States; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Engel, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tenney, 
             Mr. Reed, Mr. Donovan, and Mr. Faso):
       H.R. 3484. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers 
     for Disease Control and Prevention, to award grants to States 
     to implement a tick identification pilot program; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KIND:
       H.R. 3485. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to eliminate the thresholds for reporting the 
     identification of

[[Page H6516]]

     persons making contributions to political committees with 
     respect to elections for Federal office; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 3486. A bill to authorize the Capitol Police to 
     enforce the immigration laws, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 3487. A bill to amend section 1332 of title 28, United 
     States Code, to provide that the requirement for diversity of 
     citizenship jurisdiction is met if any one party to the case 
     is diverse in citizenship from any one adverse party in the 
     case; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Mr. Meehan, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, 
             Mrs. Wagner, and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 3488. A bill to amend the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 to encourage a victim-centered 
     approach to combating human trafficking, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Ruppersberger, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Crist, Ms. 
             Speier, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Evans, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Price 
             of North Carolina, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. 
             DelBene, Ms. Adams, Mr. Welch, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Polis, and Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 3489. A bill to require the publication of the name of 
     any person pardoned by the President, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Lawrence, and Mr. Marino):
       H.R. 3490. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize grants to eligible entities to develop and 
     implement statewide or tribal post-adoption and post-legal 
     guardianship mental health service programs for all children 
     who are adopted or placed in legal guardianship, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, and Mr. Marino):
       H.R. 3491. A bill to amend part E of title IV of the Social 
     Security Act to provide incentives for improving support 
     services for adopted children and families; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Kinzinger, 
             Mr. Hultgren, Ms. Moore, Mr. Rush, Mr. O'Halleran, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Young of Alaska, and 
             Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 3492. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     expand educational assistance to veterans who pursue certain 
     apprenticeship program, to establish a pilot program for 
     veterans to pursue certification programs in computer 
     numerically controlled machining, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Moore, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Ben 
             Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Gallego, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Norton, and Mr. Evans):
       H.R. 3493. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize grants for local care corps programs through which 
     qualified volunteers provide care, companionship, and other 
     services to seniors and individuals in need, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 3494. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     establish a National Care Corps, and to authorize grants for 
     local care corps programs, through which qualified volunteers 
     provide care, companionship, and other services to 
     individuals in need, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Evans, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Deutch, Ms. DeGette, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. Jayapal, and Mr. 
             McEachin):
       H.R. 3495. A bill to amend the 21st Century Cures Act to 
     appropriate funds for the Account for the State Response to 
     the Opioid Abuse Crisis through fiscal year 2023, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Takano, and Mr. Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 3496. A bill to amend the Museum and Library Services 
     Act to authorize grants to support the use of public 
     libraries for community economic development; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 3497. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program establishing a secure, 
     patient-centered, portable medical records system, that would 
     allow veterans to have access to their Personal Health 
     Information, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 3498. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to issue reports with respect to extraordinary measures, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. NEAL:
       H.R. 3499. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand personal saving and retirement savings 
     coverage by enabling employees not covered by qualifying 
     retirement plans to save for retirement through automatic IRA 
     arrangements, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Rice of 
             South Carolina, and Mrs. Black):
       H.R. 3500. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to prohibit the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue 
     Service from rehiring any employee of the Internal Revenue 
     Service who was involuntarily separated from service for 
     misconduct; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PAULSEN:
       H.R. 3501. A bill to establish a procedure under which 
     certain small employers may withdraw from a multi-employer 
     plan in connection with the establishment of a collectively 
     bargained plan; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 3502. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to withdraw guidance regarding disclosure related 
     to climate change; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 3503. A bill to prohibit the payment of death 
     gratuities to the surviving heirs of deceased Members of 
     Congress; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 3504. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     establish a uniform 5-year post-employment ban on all 
     lobbying by former Members of Congress, to establish a 
     uniform 2-year post-employment ban on all lobbying by former 
     officers and employees of Congress, to lower the income 
     threshold for applying such ban to former officers and 
     employees of Congress, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 3505. A bill to provide that a former Member of 
     Congress or former senior Congressional employee who receives 
     compensation as a lobbyist representing a foreign principal 
     shall not be eligible for retirement benefits or certain 
     other Federal benefits; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 3506. A bill to sunset new Federal regulatory rules 
     after 3 years, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. 
             Reed):
       H.R. 3507. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make permanent and modify the energy efficient 
     commercial buildings deduction, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself and Mr. Davidson):
       H.R. 3508. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for a small partnership exception from 
     certain requirements; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. THOMAS J. ROONEY of Florida (for himself, Mr. 
             Valadao, and Mr. Vela):
       H.R. 3509. A bill to authorize certain citrus programs, to 
     increase the limitations on assistance for the tree 
     assistance program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture.
           By Mr. SCHRADER:
       H.R. 3510. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     exempt members of the Armed Forces who voluntarily separate 
     from active duty and incur a service-connected disability 
     after being recalled to active duty from the requirement to 
     repay voluntary separation pay; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.

[[Page H6517]]

  

           By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Raskin, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Beyer, and Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio):
       H.R. 3511. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to establish a free on-line tax preparation and filing 
     service and programs that allow taxpayers to access third-
     party provided tax return information; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
       H.R. 3512. A bill to make certain countries ineligible to 
     be designated as a beneficiary developing country for 
     purposes of receiving preferences under the Generalized 
     System of Preferences, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr. Deutch, and Mr. 
             Hunter):
       H.R. 3513. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to authorize admission of Canadian retirees as long-term 
     visitors for pleasure described in section 101(a)(15)(B) of 
     such Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SUOZZI (for himself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 3514. A bill to amend the National Trails System Act 
     to designate the Washington Spy Ring National Historic Trail, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 3515. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for expensing of qualified energy efficient 
     heating and air-conditioning property for certain taxpayers 
     and accelerated cost recovery for such property for other 
     taxpayers; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Payne, 
             Ms. Barragan, Mr. Evans, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Rush, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 3516. A bill to require the Internal Revenue Service 
     to meet higher standards in security screening and to improve 
     the process for obtaining return information and verification 
     of nonfiling in connection with completing a Free Application 
     for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA); to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 3517. A bill to amend chapter 11 of title 35, United 
     States Code, to require the voluntary collection of 
     demographic information for patent applications, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 3518. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     require the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a Great 
     Lakes basin initiative for agricultural nonpoint source 
     pollution prevention; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California:
       H.R. 3519. A bill to increase accountability of the 
     Securities and Exchange Commission and to require the 
     Commission to implement a rigorous, fair, and public process 
     for waiving bad actor disqualifications in the securities 
     laws; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kildee, Ms. Lee, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Levin, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Moore, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Payne, Mr. Peters, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Mr. Serrano, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             Mr. Takano, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Velazquez, and Ms. 
             Lofgren):
       H.R. 3520. A bill to prohibit discrimination in public 
     accommodations on the basis of sex, gender identity, and 
     sexual orientation, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
       H.R. 3521. A bill to require reimbursement for costs 
     associated with Presidential travel, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 3522. A bill to improve the coordination and use of 
     geospatial data; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 3523. A bill to require the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to conduct a study and submit a report on 
     filing requirements under the Universal Service Fund 
     programs; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself, Mr. Latta, and Mr. 
             Loebsack):
       H.R. 3524. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify the treatment of contributions to Alaska 
     Native Settlement Trusts, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. ROBY:
       H.J. Res. 114. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States which requires (except 
     during time of war and subject to suspension by Congress) 
     that the total amount of money expended by the United States 
     during any fiscal year not exceed the amount of certain 
     revenue received by the United States during such fiscal year 
     and not exceed 20 percent of the gross domestic product of 
     the United States during the previous calendar year; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas (for himself, Mr. Sherman, and 
             Mr. Moulton):
       H.J. Res. 115. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to clarify the 
     presidential pardoning power; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Al Green 
             of Texas, and Mr. Ellison):
       H. Con. Res. 74. Concurrent resolution affirming the right 
     of all renters to a safe, affordable, and decent home; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Budget, and the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself and Mr. Crowley):
       H. Res. 479. A resolution of inquiry directing the 
     Secretary of the Treasury to provide to the House of 
     Representatives the tax return information of President 
     Donald J. Trump as well as the tax returns of each business 
     entity disclosed by Donald J. Trump on his Office of 
     Government Ethics Form 278e; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself and Mr. Duffy):
       H. Res. 482. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of September 2017 as National Ovarian Cancer 
     Awareness Month; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. HUNTER:
       H. Res. 483. A resolution expressing the support of the 
     House of Representatives for the priorities and goals of 
     Executive Order 13443; to the Committee on Natural Resources, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEVIN:
       H. Res. 484. A resolution expressing concern for the 
     wellbeing of Liu Xia, and urging the Government of the 
     People's Republic of China to unconditionally release Liu Xia 
     from illegal detention, cease surveillance, and allow her 
     freedom of movement; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



