

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4756]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





               HONORING CORPSMAN FIRST CLASS RYAN LOHREY

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and honor the 
extraordinary service and sacrifice of U.S. Navy Hospital Corpsman 
First Class Ryan Lohrey of Middletown, IN. Dedication to his country, 
loyalty to his fellow servicemembers, and a deep love for his family 
were the qualities that defined Ryan's life.
  A native of Middletown, IN, Ryan graduated from Shenandoah High 
School in 2005. Two years after graduation, he joined the U.S. Navy, 
where he served our country as a special amphibious reconnaissance 
corpsman, providing medical care to his fellow servicemembers.
  On Monday, July 10, 2017, Ryan and 15 other servicemembers died 
tragically when the KC-130 aircraft they were on crashed in 
Mississippi. The plane was carrying servicemembers from Marine Aerial 
Refueler Transport Squadron 452 and the 2d Marine Raider Battalion, a 
special operations unit. Hundreds gathered on July 27 as a military 
procession honored Ryan from Indianapolis International Airport to New 
Castle, IN. He received military honors during his funeral in 
Middletown on July 31, 2017.
  Ryan is remembered for his selfless sacrifice, humility, patience, 
and infectious smile. He distinguished himself through his service in 
the U.S. Navy, where he deployed with the 2d Marine Reconnaissance 
Battalion and later with the 2d Marine Raider Battalion. He was a 
veteran of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation 
Inherent Resolve in Iraq. Ryan had qualification as an enlisted fleet 
marine force warfare specialist, marine combatant diver, and Navy and 
Marine Corps parachutist. He rose to become a special amphibious 
reconnaissance corpsman. For his service, among the awards he earned 
were a Purple Heart, Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, Combat 
Action Ribbon with Gold Star in lieu of second award, and Good Conduct 
Medal with two Bronze Stars in lieu of second and third award.
  Ryan was a devoted patriot, son, husband, and father, who loved 
football and making others laugh. He is survived and will be deeply 
missed by his wife, Cassie; his two children, Gavin and Maelyn; his 
parents, Michael and Teresa Lohrey of Middletown; and his grandparents, 
Barbara Lohrey of Middletown, and George Lohrey, of Sulphur Springs; as 
well as friends, the U.S. Navy family, and Hoosiers across the State of 
Indiana.
  As Ryan's grandmother said, ``Ryan was my hero. He's everybody's 
hero.'' Ryan set an example for others and will be remembered for his 
strong character. Let us always remember and emulate the shining 
example this brave man set for us and honor his commitment to serving 
his fellow citizens. May God welcome Ryan home and give comfort to his 
family and friends.

                          ____________________



