

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6212-H6213]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Marino, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Issa, and 
             Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 3356. A bill to provide for programs to help reduce 
     the risk that prisoners will recidivate upon release from 
     prison, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Walz, Mr. Heck, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Kildee, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 3357. A bill to allow the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection to provide greater protection to servicemembers; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Katko, 
             Mr. Hurd, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Garrett, and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 3359. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to authorize the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
     Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Mrs. Black, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 3360. A bill to promote and expand the application of 
     telehealth under Medicare and other Federal health care 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Norton, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, and Mr. Suozzi):
       H.R. 3361. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     require federally licensed firearms importers, manufacturers, 
     and dealers to meet certain requirements with respect to 
     securing their firearms inventory, business records, and 
     business premises; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Foster, 
             Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Blum, and 
             Mr. Roe of Tennessee):
       H.R. 3363. A bill to reform uniformity and reciprocity 
     among States that license insurance claims adjusters and to 
     facilitate prompt and efficient adjusting of insurance 
     claims, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             McCarthy, and Mr. Hoyer):
       H.R. 3364. A bill to provide congressional review and to 
     counter aggression by the Governments of Iran, the Russian 
     Federation, and North Korea, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Intelligence (Permanent Select), the Judiciary, 
     Oversight and Government Reform, Armed Services, Financial 
     Services, Rules, Ways and Means, and Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee:
       H.R. 3365. A bill to amend title 41, United States Code, to 
     require executive agencies to use competitive procedures for 
     procurement contracts valued at an amount equal to or greater 
     than $10,000,000, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 3366. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow, in certain cases, an increase in the 
     limitation on the exclusion for gains from a sale or exchange 
     of a principal residence; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
       H.R. 3367. A bill to terminate the prohibitions on the 
     exportation and importation of natural gas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for himself and Ms. 
             Brownley of California):
       H.R. 3368. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the access to child care for certain veterans 
     receiving health care at a facility of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself, Mr. McHenry, Ms. Foxx, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Price of 
             North Carolina, Mr. Budd, Mr. Meadows, Ms. Adams, Mr. 
             Walker, Mr. Rouzer, and Mr. Holding):
       H.R. 3369. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 225 North Main Street in 
     Spring Lake, North Carolina, as the ``Howard B. Pate, Jr. 
     Post Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. JEFFRIES:
       H.R. 3370. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend the Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement Program 
     to cover recipients of Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry 
     scholarship, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LaMALFA:
       H.R. 3371. A bill to provide for the conveyance of an 
     obsolete Over-the-Horizon Backscatter Radar System receiving 
     station in Modoc County, California, to promote economic 
     development of the site; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 3372. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the restoration of entitlement to educational 
     assistance and other relief for veterans affected by school 
     closure of disapproval, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 3373. A bill to amend the District of Columbia Stadium 
     Act of 1957 to extend for an additional 50 years the lease 
     under which the government of the District of Columbia uses 
     the ground under and the parking facilities associated with 
     Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources,

[[Page H6213]]

     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Miss RICE of New York:
       H.R. 3374. A bill to improve the safety of individuals by 
     taking measures to end drunk driving; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. VELA (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Ms. McSally, and Mr. Carter of Texas):
       H.R. 3375. A bill to designate the checkpoint of the United 
     States Border Patrol located on United States Highway 77 
     North in Sarita, Texas, as the ``Javier Vega, Jr. Border 
     Patrol Checkpoint''; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida (for herself, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mrs. Demings, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Payne, Ms. Plaskett, 
             Ms. Adams, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Fudge, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Bass, Mr. Brown 
             of Maryland, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Clay, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, and Mr. Lewis of Georgia):
       H.R. 3376. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to create a pilot program to award grants to 
     units of general local government and community-based 
     organizations to create jobs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
             Raskin, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Speier, and Mr. Carter of 
             Texas):
       H. Con. Res. 72. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that child safety is the first priority of 
     custody and visitation adjudications, and that state courts 
     should improve adjudications of custody where family violence 
     is alleged; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BUCK:
       H. Res. 469. A resolution requesting the Senate to return 
     to the House of Representatives House Joint Resolution 76; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Bishop of 
             Utah, Mr. Evans, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, 
             Mr. Keating, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Welch, and 
             Mr. Donovan):
       H. Res. 470. A resolution recognizing that international 
     education and exchange programs further national security and 
     foreign policy priorities, enhance economic competitiveness, 
     and promote mutual understanding and cooperation among 
     nations; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Ms. DelBene, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Heck, and 
             Mr. Kilmer):
       H. Res. 471. A resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary 
     of the Hiram M. Chittenden Locks, in Ballard, Washington; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H. Res. 472. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of July 29, 2017, as ``National Dance Day'' and 
     recognizing dance as a form of valuable exercise and artistic 
     expression; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



