

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4767-S4769]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the 
Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. 
Peters) were added as cosponsors of S. 58, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-
sponsored health coverage.


                                 S. 168

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 168, a bill to 
amend and enhance certain maritime programs of the Department of 
Transportation.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 256

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 256, a bill 
to establish the Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond to Health and Wellness 
Training pilot program to address human trafficking in the health care 
system.


                                 S. 261

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 261, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain 
disclosure requirements for restaurants and similar retail food 
establishments, and to amend the authority to bring proceedings under 
section 403A.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award 
the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his 
heroic achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle 
East.


                                 S. 283

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 283, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to provide for the treatment of veterans who 
participated in the cleanup of Enewetak Atoll as radiation exposed 
veterans for purposes of the presumption of service-connection of 
certain disabilities by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 394

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 394, a bill to amend chapter 44 of 
title 18, United States Code, to provide that a member of the Armed 
Forces and the spouse of that member shall have the same rights 
regarding the receipt of firearms at the location of any duty station 
of the member.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to amend 
titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States to 
provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 456

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 456, a bill to amend the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to establish a program to increase the 
development of new drugs to treat pediatric cancers, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage 
of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 581

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were 
added as

[[Page S4768]]

cosponsors of S. 581, a bill to include information concerning a 
patient's opioid addiction in certain medical records.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 635

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 635, a bill to amend 
title 28, United States Code, to prohibit the exclusion of individuals 
from service on a Federal jury on account of sexual orientation or 
gender identity.


                                 S. 655

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 655, a bill to exempt 
certain 16- and 17-year-old individuals employed in logging operations 
from child labor laws.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Shelby) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 720, a bill to amend the Export Administration Act of 
1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the 
United States boycotts fostered by international governmental 
organizations against Israel and to direct the Export-Import Bank of 
the United States to oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 808, a bill to provide 
protections for certain sports medicine professionals who provide 
certain medical services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 828

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 828, a bill to amend the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require the appropriate Federal 
banking agencies to treat certain municipal obligations as level 2B 
liquid assets, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 916

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 916, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act with regard to the provision of emergency 
medical services.


                                 S. 976

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono), the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator 
from South Carolina (Mr. Graham) were added as cosponsors of S. 976, a 
bill to restore States' sovereign rights to enforce State and local 
sales and use tax laws, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the ability of community 
financial institutions to foster economic growth and serve their 
communities, boost small businesses, increase individual savings, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1044

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1044, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure equal access of 
Medicare beneficiaries to community pharmacies in underserved areas as 
network pharmacies under Medicare prescription drug coverage, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1113

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1113, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety of cosmetics.


                                S. 1139

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1139, a bill to amend 
the Financial Stability Act of 2010 to modify the requirements of 
stress tests.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of 
The American Legion.
  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1182, supra.


                                S. 1254

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1254, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand the small employer health 
insurance credit.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1311, a bill to provide 
assistance in abolishing human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, a bill 
to prioritize the fight against human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1348

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1348, a bill to amend 
title XI of the Social Security Act to require drug manufacturers to 
publicly justify unnecessary price increases.


                                S. 1354

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1354, a bill to establish 
an Individual Market Reinsurance fund to provide funding for State 
individual market stabilization reinsurance programs.


                                S. 1428

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1428, a bill to amend 
section 21 of the Small Business Act to require cyber certification for 
small business development center counselors, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1462

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1462, a bill to amend 
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to improve cost sharing 
subsidies.


                                S. 1500

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1500, a bill to amend the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act to ensure that the reciprocal deposits of 
an insured depository institution are not considered to be funds 
obtained by or through a deposit broker, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1509

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1509, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act to authorize an extension of exclusivity periods for 
certain drugs that are approved for a new indication for a rare disease 
or condition, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1512

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1512, a bill to prohibit 
the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of 
Transportation, and the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality 
from considering, in taking any action, the social cost of carbon, the 
social cost of methane, the social cost of nitrous oxide, or the social 
cost of any other greenhouse gas, unless compliant with Office of 
Management and Budget guidance, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1532

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1532, a bill to disqualify from 
operating a commercial motor vehicle for life an individual who uses a 
commercial motor vehicle in committing a felony involving human 
trafficking.

[[Page S4769]]

  



                                S. 1536

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1536, a bill to designate a 
human trafficking prevention coordinator and to expand the scope of 
activities authorized under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration's outreach and education program to include human 
trafficking prevention activities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1558

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1558, a bill to amend section 
203 of Public Law 94-305 to ensure proper authority for the Office of 
Advocacy of the Small Business Administration, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1568, a bill 
to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration 
of President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1598

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) and the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1598, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, 
to make certain improvements in the laws administered by the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1615

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from California (Ms. 
Harris) were added as cosponsors of S. 1615, a bill to authorize the 
cancellation of removal and adjustment of status of certain individuals 
who are long-term United States residents and who entered the United 
States as children, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1636

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1636, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the rules relating to inverted 
corporations.


                                S. 1685

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1685, a bill to require 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to establish procedures for considering 
certain credit scores in making a determination whether to purchase a 
residential mortgage, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1688

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1688, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services to negotiate fair prescription drug prices under 
part D of the Medicare program.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 
1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 7, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt 
fraternal benefit societies have historically provided and continue to 
provide critical benefits to the people and communities of the United 
States.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 575

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
575 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 592

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 592 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 680

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 680 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.

                          ____________________



