

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3644-S3645]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO DARYL DELABBIO

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to mark the 
distinguished 40-year public service career of Daryl Delabbio of Kent 
County, MI. Mr. Delabbio is widely regarded as one of the Nation's 
preeminent municipal managers, helping lead his region to growth and 
prosperity with an unwavering devotion to financial stability and 
customer service. Mr. Delabbio is retiring as the administrator of Kent 
County, a position he has held for the past 19 years. Prior to that 
role, he served as assistant Kent County administrator for 3 years and 
as manager of the city of Rockford, MI, for 11 years. Mr. Delabbio 
began his municipal career in 1977 as administrative coordinator for 
the city of Rockwood, before joining Garden City, MI, as director of 
administrative services.
  Mr. Delabbio has presided over a county that emerged from Michigan's 
historic economic downturn as the fastest growing county in the State. 
His success has stemmed from building important partnerships, while 
prioritizing excellent citizen services and encouraging diversity and 
inclusion throughout the county. He has distinguished himself by 
spearheading many of the successful public and private partnerships 
that have become the hallmark of Kent County's prosperity. Mr. Delabbio 
was one of the founders of the Kent County/Grand Rapids Convention and 
Arena Authority, an organization whose work has greatly advanced the 
economic development of Kent County. The authority's development of a 
downtown convention center and sports and entertainment arena have 
become catalysts for the economic vitality of Grand Rapids, Michigan's 
second-largest city.
  Mr. Delabbio has shown a dedication to lifelong learning by creating 
various educational programs for county staff and a strong commitment 
to diversity, equity and inclusion. In 2001, he helped

[[Page S3645]]

create the Cultural Insight Council. This self-directed, 
interdepartmental workgroup is comprised of employees from diverse 
backgrounds, representing all levels of the organization.
  Under his stewardship as county administrator and controller, Kent 
County has attained the highest possible bond ratings for 19 
consecutive years. These triple-A ratings have allowed the county to 
finance important community projects at the lowest cost possible. Kent 
County has achieved many milestones under Mr. Delabbio's tenure, from 
the construction of Millennium Park and the Kent County courthouse, to 
the expansion of the Kent County jail and the transition of the county 
Department of Aeronautics to a regional airport authority. Mr. Delabbio 
has worked with over 60 elected Kent County commissioners and is held 
in the highest regard by his peers around the country and globe. He has 
served as a regional vice president of the International City County 
Management Association, an organization with over 9,000 members 
worldwide, as well as a board member on many other organizations, 
including the Grand Valley Metropolitan Council, Experience Grand 
Rapids, and The Right Place, Inc.
  Mr. Delabbio holds a bachelor of science degree in political science 
and master of management from Aquinas College, as well as a master of 
public administration from Wayne State University and a Ph.D. from 
Western Michigan University. He has been an adjunct professor at 
Davenport University and plans to continue teaching and sharing his 
expertise with others in his retirement.
  Mr. Delabbio's colleagues in Kent County have praised him for work 
that has embodied what it means to be a public servant: resourceful, 
thoughtful, creative, and dedicated. Mr. Delabbio's decades of work 
have set the standard for excellence and integrity for municipal 
managers throughout the State of Michigan, while mentoring many others 
who share his passion for public service. Those that know him will also 
attest that Mr. Delabbio is a humble man of impeccable character.
  I am honored to ask my colleagues to join me today in recognizing 
Daryl Delabbio for his decades of public service to the citizens of 
Kent County, MI. His selfless, quiet leadership has left behind a 
legacy of growth and achievement that will benefit them for decades to 
come.

                          ____________________



