

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 83 (Monday, May 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 83 (Monday, May 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2932-S2934]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 41

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 41, a bill to 
amend part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate covered part D drug 
prices on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries.


                                 S. 98

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 98, a bill to reduce a 
portion of the annual pay of Members of Congress for the failure to 
adopt a concurrent resolution on the budget which does not provide for 
a balanced budget, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 207

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 207, a bill 
to amend the Controlled Substances Act relating to controlled substance 
analogues.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.

[[Page S2933]]

Grassley), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. 
Whitehouse) were added as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 315

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 315, a bill 
to direct the Secretary of the Army to place in Arlington National 
Cemetery a monument honoring the helicopter pilots and crewmembers who 
were killed while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces during the 
Vietnam era, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 10, 
United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of survivor 
annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' dependency and 
indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 367

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 367, a bill to amend 
section 3606 of title 18, United States Code, to grant probation 
officers authority to arrest hostile third parties who obstruct or 
impede a probation officer in the performance of official duties.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 374, a bill to 
enable concrete masonry products manufacturers to establish, finance, 
and carry out a coordinated program of research, education, and 
promotion to improve, maintain, and develop markets for concrete 
masonry products.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 379, a bill to amend title II of the Social 
Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting period for disability 
insurance benefits under such title for individuals with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely 
access to home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the 
Medicare program.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 515

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 515, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Labor to maintain a publicly available list of all 
employers that relocate a call center overseas, to make such companies 
ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to require 
disclosure of the physical location of business agents engaging in 
customer service communications, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to 
prevent the sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring 
the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 546

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 546, a bill to 
reduce temporarily the royalty required to be paid for sodium produced 
on Federal lands, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 548

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 548, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform the low-income housing credit, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of 
outpatient observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-
day inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing 
facility services under Medicare.


                                 S. 583

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 583, a bill to amend 
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize 
COPS grantees to use grant funds to hire veterans as career law 
enforcement officers, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran 
in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 760

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 760, a bill to expand the 
Government's use and administration of data to facilitate transparency, 
effective governance, and innovation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 842

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 842, a bill to prohibit 
Federal agencies and Federal contractors from requesting that an 
applicant for employment disclose criminal history record information 
before the applicant has received a conditional offer, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 870

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 870, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to implement Medicare payment policies designed to improve 
management of chronic disease, streamline care coordination, and 
improve quality outcomes without adding to the deficit.


                                 S. 992

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 992, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct an independent review of the 
deaths of certain veterans by suicide, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1016

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine), the 
Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. 
Klobuchar), the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Graham), the Senator 
from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) and the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1016, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to expand access to telehealth services, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1018

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1018, a bill to provide 
humanitarian assistance for the Venezuelan people, to defend democratic 
governance and combat widespread public corruption in Venezuela, and 
for other purposes.

[[Page S2934]]

  



                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1027, a bill to extend the Secure Rural 
Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1089

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1089, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Energy to review and update a report on the energy and 
environmental benefits of the re-refining of used lubricating oil.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) and the Senator 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) were added as cosponsors of S. 1094, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the accountability of 
employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1105

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1105, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for 
other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 40

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 40, a joint 
resolution to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground 
munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia.


                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 136, a 
resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 102nd 
anniversary of the Armenian Genocide.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 139, a resolution 
condemning the Government of Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its 
Baha'i minority and its continued violation of the International 
Covenants on Human Rights.


                              S. RES. 155

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 155, a 
resolution expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States 
should work in cooperation with the international community and 
continue to exercise global leadership to address the causes and 
effects of climate change, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 161

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 161, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that defense laboratories are on the 
cutting edge of scientific and technological advancement, and 
supporting the designation of May 18, 2017, as ``Department of Defense 
Laboratory Day''.

                          ____________________



