

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3009-S3010]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Booker, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Hassan, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Markey, Mr. Menendez, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1143. A bill to amend the Equal Credit Opportunity Act 
     to prohibit discrimination on account of sexual orientation 
     or gender identity when extending credit; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Roberts):
       S. 1144. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to encourage business creation by allowing faster recovery of 
     start-up and organizational expenses, to simplify accounting 
     methods for small businesses, to expand expensing and provide 
     accelerated cost recovery to encourage investment in new 
     plants and equipment, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Lankford):
       S. 1145. A bill to require adequate information regarding 
     the tax treatment of payments under settlement agreements 
     entered into by Federal agencies, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 1146. A bill to enhance the ability of the Office of the 
     National Ombudsman to assist small businesses in meeting 
     regulatory requirements and develop outreach initiatives to 
     promote awareness of the services the Office of the National 
     Ombudsman provides, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ:
       S. 1147. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for the expansion, intensification, and coordination 
     of the programs and activities of the National Institutes of 
     Health with respect to Tourette syndrome; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. King, and 
             Mr. Portman):
       S. 1148. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with the option of providing medical 
     assistance at a residential pediatric recovery center to 
     infants under 1 year of age with neonatal abstinence syndrome 
     and their families; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
       S. 1149. A bill to amend the Alaska Native Claims 
     Settlement Act to repeal a provision limiting the export of 
     timber harvested from land conveyed to the Kake Tribal 
     Corporation under that Act; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KENNEDY:
       S. 1150. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to require States to impose a work requirement for able-
     bodied adults without dependents who are eligible for medical 
     assistance; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Bennet, Mrs. Capito, 
             and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1151. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a nonrefundable credit for working family 
     caregivers; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Paul, Mr. Bennet, Mr. 
             Wyden, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. 
             Schatz, and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 1152. A bill to create protections for depository 
     institutions that provide financial services to cannabis-
     related businesses, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr. Moran):
       S. 1153. A bill to prohibit or suspend certain health care 
     providers from providing non-Department of Veterans Affairs 
     health care services to veterans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 1154. A bill to amend title 37, United States Code, to 
     provide for the housing treatment of members of the Armed 
     Forces and their spouses and dependents undergoing a 
     permanent change of station in the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Kaine, and 
             Mr. Brown):
       S. 1155. A bill to amend title IV of the Higher Education 
     Act of 1965 in order to increase the amount of financial 
     support available for working students; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1156. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow rehabilitation expenditures for public school 
     buildings to qualify for rehabilitation credit; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. 
             Gardner):
       S. 1157. A bill to establish the Vulnerability Equities 
     Review Board, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Young, Mr. Tillis, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Franken, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Coons, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Booker, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Brown, Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1158. A bill to help prevent acts of genocide and other 
     atrocity crimes, which threaten national and international 
     security, by enhancing United States Government capacities to 
     prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Roberts, 
             and Mr. Moran):
       S. 1159. A bill to protect consumers from discriminatory 
     State taxes on motor vehicle rentals; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 1160. A bill to include Livingston County, the city of 
     Jonesboro in Union County, and the city of Freeport in 
     Stephenson County, Illinois, to the Lincoln National Heritage 
     Area, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms. Collins, and Mr. 
             Blumenthal):
       S. 1161. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     eliminate copayments by the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     for medicines relating to preventative health services, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Schumer, Mrs. Murray, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Brown, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Casey, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, Ms. 
             Hassan, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Hirono, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Wyden, Ms. 
             Cortez Masto, and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 1162. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for the refinancing of certain Federal student 
     loans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Hatch, Mr. 
             Cruz, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 1163. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to ensure compliance of medical facilities of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs with requirements relating to 
     the scheduling of appointments, to require appointment by the 
     President and confirmation by the Senate of certain health 
     care officials of the Department, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mrs. Fischer, 
             and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1164. A bill to protect consumers from deceptive 
     practices with respect to online booking of hotel 
     reservations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1165. A bill to designate the medical center of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs in Huntington, West Virginia, 
     as the Hershel ``Woody'' Williams VA Medical Center; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Graham, and 
             Mr. Tillis):
       S. 1166. A bill to decrease the deficit by realigning, 
     consolidating, disposing, and improving the efficiency of 
     Federal buildings and other civilian real property, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Mr. Moran):

[[Page S3010]]

  

       S. 1167. A bill to require the Administrator of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration to evaluate and consider revising 
     regulations relating to emergency medical equipment 
     requirements for passenger aircraft; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Mr. Graham, Mr. Coons, Mr. Heller, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Tillis, and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 1168. A bill to facilitate efficient investments and 
     financing of infrastructure projects and new, long-term job 
     creation through the establishment of an Infrastructure 
     Financing Authority, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Portman, Mr. Brown, 
             Mrs. Capito, Mr. King, Ms. Collins, Mr. Manchin, and 
             Mr. Booker):
       S. 1169. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with an option to provide medical 
     assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 64 for 
     inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at 
     certain facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 1170. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to foreign 
     persons responsible for gross violations of internationally 
     recognized human rights against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and 
     transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.

                          ____________________



