

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 115 (Monday, July 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 115 (Monday, July 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3885-S3886]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 45

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 45, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to increase penalties for individuals 
who illegally reenter the United States after being removed and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to 
repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that 
it cannot be used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for 
beneficiaries.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator 
from Georgia (Mr. Isakson), the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) 
and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were added as cosponsors of S. 
266, a bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in 
recognition of his heroic achievements and courageous contributions to 
peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect victims 
of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence 
from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or 
threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 334

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 334, a bill to clarify that a 
State has the sole authority to regulate hydraulic fracturing on 
Federal land within the boundaries of the State.


                                 S. 378

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 378, a bill to 
amend titles 5 and 28, United States Code, to require the maintenance 
of databases on awards of fees and other expenses to prevailing parties 
in certain administrative proceedings and court cases to which the 
United States is a party, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of States to tax 
certain income of employees for employment duties performed in other 
States.


                                 S. 545

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Alabama (Mr. 
Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 545, a bill to preserve and 
protect the free choice of individual employees to form, join, or 
assist labor organizations, or to refrain from such activities.


                                 S. 622

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 622, a bill to preserve 
open competition and Federal Government neutrality towards the labor 
relations of Federal Government contractors on Federal and federally 
funded construction projects.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 654, a bill to revise section 48 of title 18, 
United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 683

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 683, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to extend the requirement to 
provide nursing home care to certain veterans with service-connected 
disabilities.


                                 S. 705

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 705, a bill to amend the 
National Child Protection Act of 1993 to establish a national criminal 
history background check system and criminal history review program for 
certain individuals who, related to their employment, have access to 
children, the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 772

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 772, a bill to amend the 
PROTECT Act to make Indian tribes eligible for AMBER Alert grants.


                                 S. 819

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 819, a bill to amend 
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effective remedies 
to victims of discrimination in the payment of wages on the basis of 
sex, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the extension 
of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased 
payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.

[[Page S3886]]

  



                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1112, a bill to 
support States in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers 
during pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to 
eliminate disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related 
and pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve 
health care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1124

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1124, a bill to grant the 
Director of the United States Marshals Service authority to appoint 
criminal investigators in the excepted service.


                                S. 1146

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1146, a bill to enhance 
the ability of the Office of the National Ombudsman to assist small 
businesses in meeting regulatory requirements and develop outreach 
initiatives to promote awareness of the services the Office of the 
National Ombudsman provides, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1186

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1186, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of Transportation to designate certain entities as 
centers of excellence for domestic maritime workforce training and 
education, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1256

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1256, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to the 23d Headquarters, Special Troops and 
the 3133d Signal Service Company in recognition of their unique and 
distinguished service as a ``Ghost Army'' that conducted deception 
operations in Europe during World War II.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1311, a bill to provide assistance in abolishing 
human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1312, a bill to prioritize the fight 
against human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1325

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1325, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the authorities of the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to hire, recruit, and train employees of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable tax 
provisions.


                                S. 1426

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1426, a bill to amend 
the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act to expand the purposes 
of the corporation, to designate the United States Center for Safe 
Sport, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1427

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1427, a bill to provide 
States with the option of applying for and receiving temporary waivers 
for the States to experiment with new approaches that integrate Federal 
programs in order to provide more coordinated and holistic solutions to 
families in need, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1463

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1463, a bill to amend the 
Financial Stability Act of 2010 to modify the term of the independent 
member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council.


                                S. 1465

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1465, a bill to 
terminate the prohibitions on the exportation and importation of 
natural gas, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1489

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1489, a bill to amend section 3312 of 
title 38, United States Code, to restore Post-9/11 Educational 
Assistance and other relief for veterans affected by school closures, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1503, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th 
anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.


                              S. RES. 102

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 102, a resolution 
reaffirming the strategic partnership between the United States and 
Mexico, and recognizing bilateral cooperation that advances the 
national security and national interests of both countries.


                              S. RES. 201

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 201, a resolution 
affirming the importance of title IX, applauding the increase in 
educational opportunities available to women and girls, and recognizing 
the tremendous amount of work left to be done to further increase those 
opportunities.


                              S. RES. 211

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 211, a resolution 
condemning the violence and persecution in Chechnya.


                              S. RES. 213

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Corker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 213, a resolution 
honoring the memory of Dallas Police Department Senior Corporal Lorne 
Ahrens, Sergeant Michael Smith, Officer Michael Krol, Officer Patrick 
Zamarripa, and Dallas Area Rapid Transit Police Officer Brent Thompson, 
who were killed during the attack in Dallas, Texas, that occurred 1 
year ago, on July 7, 2016.

                          ____________________



