

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2680]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Murphy, 
             Mr. Cassidy, and Mr. Alexander):
       S. 1001. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to modernize payments for ambulatory surgical centers 
     under the Medicare program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Tester, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 1002. A bill to enhance the ability of community 
     financial institutions to foster economic growth and serve 
     their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
     individual savings, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 1003. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to add standards for drug compendia for physician use for 
     purposes of Medicaid payment for certain drugs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Portman, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mrs. Capito, Mr. Young, and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 1004. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to support innovative 
     approaches to career and technical education and redesign the 
     high school experience for students by providing students 
     with equitable access to rigorous, engaging, and relevant 
     real world education through partnerships with business and 
     industry and higher education that prepare students to 
     graduate from high school and enroll into postsecondary 
     education without the need for remediation and with the 
     ability to use knowledge to solve complex problems, think 
     critically, communicate effectively, collaborate with others, 
     and develop academic mindsets; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 1005. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modernize the tax treatment of derivatives and their 
     underlying investments, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Bennet, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, 
             Mr. Cardin, Mr. Carper, Mr. Casey, Mr. Coons, Ms. 
             Cortez Masto, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, 
             Ms. Hassan, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Hirono, 
             Mr. Kaine, Mr. King, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Markey, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Murphy, 
             Mrs. Murray, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Peters, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Schumer, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mr. Tester, Mr. Udall, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Warner, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1006. A bill to prohibit discrimination on the basis of 
     sex, gender identity, and sexual orientation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
             Sullivan, and Mr. Daines):
       S. 1007. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior to 
     develop a strategy to relocate the headquarters of the Bureau 
     of Land Management from Washington, DC, to a western State in 
     a manner that will save the maximum amount of taxpayer money 
     practicable, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Alexander, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Lee, Mr. 
             Johnson, Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1008. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     exclude cannabidiol and cannabidiol-rich plants from the 
     definition of marihuana, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KING (for himself and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1009. A bill to amend the Natural Gas Act to require the 
     Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Secretary of 
     Energy to consider certain factors in making a public 
     interest determination under that Act, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Leahy, and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 1010. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     provide additional responsibilities for the Register of 
     Copyrights, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules 
     and Administration.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Warner, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. Coons):
       S. 1011. A bill to prevent the Iranian Islamic 
     Revolutionary Guard Corps from using Mahan Air for material 
     support for terrorist activities; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 1012. A bill to provide for drought preparedness 
     measures in the State of New Mexico, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



