

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2960-H2961]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY MATA ON HIS 80TH BIRTHDAY

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I first want to rise and salute a very 
special friend of mine, Johnny Mata, on his 80th birthday.
  Longtime Houston activist and leading founder of the Greater Houston 
Coalition for Justice, Johnny, we love you because you have been a 
fighter for justice all of your life. I look forward to coming home and 
celebrating you, not only as a fighter for justice, but a great 
American, and certainly one who served in the United States Army.
  I know that Johnny would not mind me making mention of the fact that, 
in the 100 days that this President has served, not only has he not 
provided any service to the American people in terms of providing for 
their comfort, but today he will celebrate his 100 days by going and 
speaking before the National Rifle Association, where over 80 percent 
of those members believe in responsible gun safety, but not one word

[[Page H2961]]

has come from the President of the United States. Yet every day, 48 
children and teens are shot in murders, assaults, and suicides in this 
country and, as well, over $200,000 in costs for health care is part of 
the tragedy of gun violence.
  I would hope that this Presidency will join Members of Congress for 
responsible gun safety to save lives, and stop catering to the special 
interests of the National Rifle Association--not its membership, but 
its leadership who are taking advantage and using this as a moneymaking 
machine.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to my constituent and longtime 
friend Mr. Johnny Mata on his 80th Birthday.
  Johnny Mata is a longtime Houston activist who is the presiding 
officer of the Greater Houston Coalition for Justice.
  He has been a champion of social justice, education, and civil rights 
in Houston and across the State of Texas fighting to improve the 
criminal justice system.
  He served his country with distinction in the United States Army and 
later joined the Gulf Coast Community Services Association, where he 
served for 32 to years helping struggling families to make better lives 
for themselves.
  His life has been a commitment to service on behalf of those less 
fortunate, particularly in the Latino communities where his outspoken 
voice against prejudice and injustice has had a profound effect on our 
criminal justice system.
  Johnny Mata has held numerous leadership positions including six 
terms as the Director of two local districts and two terms as Texas 
State Director for the League of United Latin American Citizens.
  He is responsible for bringing to the forefront issues regarding law 
enforcement and education in the Hispanic community and has been 
nationally recognized for getting public school districts to hire more 
Hispanic educators and administrators.
  In 1999, Johnny Mata founded the Greater Houston Coalition for 
Justice, an umbrella organization of more than 25 civil rights and 
advocacy groups dedicated to raising awareness of human rights issues 
and to addressing deficiencies in the Greater Houston area's criminal 
justice system.
  In the same spirit as Cesar Chavez, Johnny Mata is an inspiration to 
us all because of his kind spirit and humble heart that allows him to 
continue his fight for the least of these and for those who just need 
an opportunity to achieve the American dream on a level playing field 
with fair and equal justice for all.
  Mr. Speaker, I commend Johnny Mata for his deep and abiding 
commitment to the causes of social justice and equal rights and offer 
him the very best for his continued success fighting for change and 
also to recognize his contributions to this country on his 80th 
birthday.
  Johnny Mata is an American hero.

                          ____________________



