

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5302-H5303]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             RECOGNIZING RETIRED COLONEL ROBERT A. ATOR, II

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Arkansas (Mr. Hill) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to recognize one of Arkansas' 
finest, Colonel Robert A. Ator, II, of Little Rock.
  A veteran of the United States Air Force, Colonel Ator retired on 
June 3, 2017, after proudly serving our country for 28 years. Before 
joining the Arkansas National Guard, Colonel Ator served 11 years on 
Active Duty with the United States Air Force. He is a veteran of 
several major combat operations, including Operation Desert Shield, 
Operation Desert Storm, Operation Provide Comfort, Operation Provide 
Promise, Operation Joint Forge, and Operation Noble Eagle.
  Ator is a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy, where he married 
Michelle, his wife of 28 years, just 3 days after graduation. Today, 
his son, Cadet Third Class Robert A. Ator, III, is a sophomore.
  Colonel Ator is the recipient of numerous awards and medals, 
including the Legion of Merit, the Meritorious Service Medal with two 
oak leaf clusters, the Air Medal, the Aerial Achievement Medal with one 
oak leaf cluster, and the Air Force Commendation Medal with one oak 
leaf cluster.
  Colonel Ator is an example that all Arkansans and Americans can 
admire. I wish him and his family the very best in their future 
endeavors.


          Saline County Career and Technical Education Center

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the proposed plans 
for a career and technical education center in my district.
  Lamont Cornwell of the Saline County Economic Development Corporation 
presented detailed plans to the Arkansas Economic Development 
Commission on June 8 for a center that is specifically aimed at 
training our State's skilled workforce community.
  The center would allow students to enroll in science and technology 
career preparatory classes, careers that will only become more 
invaluable as our Nation moves forward.
  The center will impact parents and children of all socioeconomic 
statuses and positively change our technical career education 
environment in central Arkansas.
  As co-chair of the Congressional Skilled American Workforce Caucus, I 
was encouraged to see the recent passage of H.R. 2353, the 
Strengthening Career and Technical Education Act. I am encouraged to 
see leaders in Saline County step up and embrace a passion for our 
skilled workforce community.


                        Honoring Foster Parents

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the importance of 
foster families around Arkansas and the organizations dedicated to 
their recruitment.
  According to recent Arkansas data, the number of foster youths has 
outpaced the number of spaces available in foster homes by 1,283. Many 
families have already stepped up to the plate to provide a loving home 
for children in the foster system.
  One such family, Andrew and Amy Baker of Searcy, Arkansas, was 
recently named Foster Family of the Year by our State's Division of 
Children and Family Services for their

[[Page H5303]]

dedicated efforts to reunify foster children with their biological 
parents.
  In addition, there are organizations around our State that have been 
at the forefront of recruitment efforts for foster families, including 
50 families in the month of April alone.
  One such organization is entitled The CALL, locally directed by Lauri 
Currier, who notes that a stable, loving home can make a huge 
difference in a child's life, specifically with regard to escaping the 
grasp of neglect and abuse.
  Today I want to emphasize Ms. Currier's statement that if one family 
from each of the 6,000 churches around Arkansas came forward to adopt, 
no more children would ever be waiting for a forever family.


                   Fishing with a Hero Summer Program

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a hands-on 
mentorship program in my district created through a partnership between 
the Bryant Police Department and the Boys and Girls Clubs of Bryant.
  The summer program entitled ``Fishing with a Hero'' pairs Boys and 
Girls Clubs students with local police heroes to bond over the 
longstanding, joyful pastime of fishing.
  Through a 2-day fishing instruction program, local police officers 
are able to build quality mentoring relationships with students in 
traditionally underserved or impoverished communities.
  Along with being one of the students' favorite programs, the 
established relationships aid in creating long-term bonds between our 
law enforcement officers and local youth.
  The stability and prosperity of our local communities hinges on 
mutual respect between our citizens and our law enforcement officers. 
The creation of genuine relationships at a young age ensures the 
longevity of that important respect.


                 Honoring Robin Creole and Danny Revis

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the recent selfless 
actions of two extraordinary individuals in the Second Congressional 
District of Arkansas, Robin Creole and Danny Revis. Both men work 
tirelessly in the Benton School District transportation program.

                          ____________________



