

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6302]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          OCEAN ACIDIFICATION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about the 
alarming crisis that is ocean acidification. This is not only an 
environmental issue, but it is an economic issue as well, and one that 
greatly impacts my congressional district in south Florida.
  South Florida's world-famous beaches, delicious seafood, incomparable 
fishing, boating, and sailing, and spectacular marine life are all 
dependent on a healthy ocean. However, our oceans are becoming more and 
more acidic as seawater absorbs increasing amounts of carbon pollution, 
causing what is known as ocean acidification.
  This increased acidity makes it harder for corals, oysters, shrimp, 
lobster, and other sea animals to develop their shells or skeletons, 
which they rely on for survival to grow. These organisms are extremely 
important to the vitality of our ecosystem.
  In addition, corals host a vast number of ocean species, protects 
coastlines from large waves and hurricanes, and attract visitors with 
its beauty.
  Data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration--NOAA--
also suggests that tourism, recreation, and fishing related to south 
Florida's coral reefs alone generates more than $4.4 billion in local 
sales and $2 billion in local income.
  Ocean Conservancy, which is a tremendous environmental advocacy 
group, has been a champion in raising awareness about the negative 
impact of ocean acidification. Recently, they premiered an outstanding 
documentary, a short film which highlighted two gentlemen who either 
work for or own ocean-dependent businesses that are located in my 
congressional district.
  Dale Palomino, right over here, this fine-looking young man, he is 
the general manager and head chef at Captain's Tavern Restaurant and 
Seafood Market, a family-owned business in Miami and one of my favorite 
places to dine with my husband, Dexter, and our grandkids.
  And Captain Ray Rosher, right here, who owns and operates Miss Britt 
Charter Fishing and R&R Tackle in Coconut Grove, also located in my 
congressional district.
  In addition, this film highlights ocean expert, Dr. Chris Langdon, a 
professor from my alma mater, the University of Miami--Go Canes. His 
research on coral reef ecosystems has allowed us to better understand 
the capacity and limitations of coral to adapt to a changing physical 
and chemical environment. Dr. Langdon has also been a leader in 
bringing stakeholders together to learn about the threats posed by 
ocean acidification to commercial and recreational fishing and tourism 
industries throughout Florida.
  These two gentleman know a lot about the impact of ocean 
acidification on their business because saltwater recreational and 
commercial fishing combined support an estimated 175,000 jobs across 
our beautiful Sunshine State.
  Mr. Speaker, it is truly astounding the amount of jobs and revenue 
that come out of ocean-related industries. Our country enjoys thousands 
of miles of coastlines with so many people benefiting from their 
environment and providing jobs and nutrients for their family. From the 
oyster hatcheries in the Pacific Northwest, to the lobster in Maine, 
and South to the reefs and fish in Florida, the real world implications 
of ocean acidification will spell trouble for these ocean-dependent 
jobs, which is why we must not wait until the tragedy truly unfolds.
  My constituents and I are also blessed to live, to work, and to play 
in the paradise that is south Florida. Our kids and our grandkids, they 
want to enjoy the same positive experiences we have, but in order to do 
so, it is vital that we act now.
  In Congress, we need to do a better job at listening to all 
stakeholders who are speaking out, and we need to continue to promote 
the valuable work of researchers, people like Dr. Langdon, the work 
that they are doing to ensure that these important marine research 
institutions and organizations have the resources they need.
  My district is home to a community that cares deeply about the ocean, 
and it is because of the efforts of folks like these two gentlemen and 
Dr. Langdon of south Florida that I have learned more about the issues 
and what is at stake.
  I remain committed to continue to work with my colleagues, with 
industry experts, with all stakeholders in tackling head-on these 
important issues and lead in mitigation and adaption solutions to the 
changing ocean around us and, indeed, across the globe.

                          ____________________



