

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3160-S3161]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      CELEBRATING THE COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY'S 225th ANNIVERSARY

  Mr. McCONNELL. One final matter, Mr. President. Next week on June 1, 
the Commonwealth of Kentucky will celebrate the 225th anniversary of 
its admittance as a State into the Union. Originally part of Virginia 
known as the Kentucky County, it became the 15th State of this Nation 
in 1792. So today I rise to celebrate my home State of Kentucky, the 
Commonwealth of Kentucky, a place the Native American Wyandot Nation 
called the ``land of tomorrow.''
  Once considered the far western frontier, Kentucky has developed into 
a State with diverse industries, a strong heritage, and international 
prominence.
  When you think about my home State, many things follow as distinctly 
Kentuckian. The natural beauty of our mountains, farmlands, and 
riverways foster deep love. Blessed with fertile land and an abundance 
of coal, Kentucky's cultural heritage has developed in both the fields 
and the mines. The proud tradition of the Commonwealth includes bourbon 
and basketball, but also pioneers, statesmen, artists, scholars, and 
athletes.
  From the days of Daniel Boone's heroic exploration through the 
Cumberland Gap, Kentucky has been home to numerous courageous men and 
women. The trailblazing spirit has animated Kentuckians from all walks 
of life throughout the generations. A pioneer of abdominal surgery, 
Ephraim McDowell expanded the boundaries of medical science. Tori 
Murden McClure rowed across the Atlantic Ocean as the first American 
and first woman to brave the waters alone. Responsible for a world 
famous fried chicken recipe, Colonel Harland Sanders franchised his 
store at the age of 62 and taught us all that it is never too late to 
chase our passion. Acclaimed news anchor Diane Sawyer, born in Glasgow, 
began her career as a weather forecaster in Louisville. Muhammad Ali, 
an international sports legend, became a global ambassador for peace.
  The Commonwealth has given rise to statesmen who have defended the 
Union, protected our liberties, and represented Kentucky values. 
Leaders like Henry Clay, Abraham Lincoln, and Alben Barkley each left 
an indelible imprint on the history of our Nation. Civil rights icon 
Georgia Powers fought against racial injustice in our State, inspired 
Kentucky to open public accommodations, and was the first African 
American to serve in the Kentucky State Senate.
  Kentucky's poets, musicians, and actors have garnered international 
acclaim for their craft. Jesse Stuart's poems and short stories 
captured the beauty of Kentucky's mountains, and Pulitzer Prize winning 
author Robert Penn Warren described the unbreakable link between poetry 
and democracy. The National Quilt Museum in Paducah is a global center 
of creativity and tourism. Kentucky is also home to music legends and 
Grammy Award winners like Loretta Lynn and Chris Stapleton and the 
birthplace of entertainment stars such as Jennifer Lawrence, George 
Clooney, and Johnny Depp.
  In the world's greatest college basketball rivalry between the 
University

[[Page S3161]]

of Louisville and the University of Kentucky, legendary coaches and 
unforgettable players have, for decades, kept fans on the edges of 
their seats until the final buzzer. For over 140 years, the Kentucky 
Derby has been known as a mile and a quarter that makes champions and 
brings the eyes of the world to Louisville.
  I am exceptionally proud to represent Kentucky in the U.S. Senate, 
and I am forever grateful to the people of my home State for giving me 
the opportunity to do just that. Kentucky has a distinguished history, 
and I am confident that trailblazers and pioneers from across the 
Bluegrass State will continue to make it the land of tomorrow. It is my 
honor to call the Commonwealth my home, and I look forward to 
celebrating this 225th anniversary next week.

                          ____________________



