

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3294-S3296]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under the 
Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 130

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 130, a bill to require enforcement against misbranded 
milk alternatives.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require 
continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual 
Report on

[[Page S3295]]

International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in Europe, 
the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the efforts 
of the United States to partner with European governments, the European 
Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 243

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 243, a bill to provide for 
a permanent extension of the enforcement instruction on supervision 
requirements for outpatient therapeutic services in critical access and 
small rural hospitals.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 329

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 329, a bill to place 
restrictions on the use of solitary confinement for juveniles in 
Federal custody.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin), and the Senator 
from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added as cosponsors of S. 431, a 
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand the use 
of telehealth for individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 445, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to ensure more timely access to home health services for 
Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance 
under Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of 
whether therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 523

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 523, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish a stewardship fee 
on the production and importation of opioid pain relievers, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill 
to revise section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and services 
provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 697

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 697, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to lower the mileage threshold for 
deduction in determining adjusted gross income of certain expenses of 
members of reserve components of the Armed Forces, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend 
the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King), the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill), the Senator 
from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. 
Heitkamp) were added as cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 782

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 782, a bill to reauthorize the National Internet 
Crimes Against Children Task Force Program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 798

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 798, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to expand the Yellow Ribbon G.I. 
Education Enhancement Program to apply to individuals pursuing programs 
of education while on active duty, to recipients of the Marine Gunnery 
Sergeant John David Fry scholarship, and to programs of education 
pursued on half-time basis or less, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 801

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Roberts) and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 801, a bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
1938 to provide compensatory time for employees in the private sector.


                                 S. 811

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 811, a bill to ensure that 
organizations with religious or moral convictions are allowed to 
continue to provide services for children.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize 
the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1014

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1014, a bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to make grants to eligible organizations to provide service 
dogs to veterans with severe post-traumatic stress disorder, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1028, a bill to provide 
for the establishment and maintenance of a National Family Caregiving 
Strategy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1093

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1093, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act to improve pediatric medical device application 
procedures.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner), the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. Grassley), the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator 
from South Dakota (Mr. Thune) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1094, a bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to improve the accountability of employees of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Toomey, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1094, supra.
  At the request of Mr. Paul, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1094, supra.


                                S. 1132

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Montana

[[Page S3296]]

(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1132, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the removal of the 
rental cap for durable medical equipment under the Medicare program 
with respect to speech generating devices.


                                S. 1133

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1133, a bill to repeal 
changes made by health care reform laws to the Medicare exception to 
the prohibition on certain physician referrals for hospitals, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1141

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1141, a bill to ensure that 
the United States promotes the meaningful participation of women in 
mediation and negotiation processes seeking to prevent, mitigate, or 
resolve violent conflict.


                                S. 1151

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1151, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a nonrefundable credit for 
working family caregivers.


                                S. 1238

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1238, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to increase and make permanent the 
exclusion for benefits provided to volunteer firefighters and emergency 
medical responders.


                                S. 1240

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1240, a bill to amend the 
Federal Power Act to establish an Office of Public Participation and 
Consumer Advocacy.


                                S. 1263

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1263, a bill to amend 
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit oil-, gas-, and 
methane hydrate-related seismic activities in the North Atlantic, Mid-
Atlantic, South Atlantic, and Straits of Florida planning areas of the 
outer Continental Shelf, and for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who 
served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of 
Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on 
May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of 
Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                               S. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 54, a 
resolution expressing the unwavering commitment of the United States to 
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.


                              S. RES. 174

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 174, a 
resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary of Lions Clubs 
International and celebrating the Lions Clubs International for a long 
history of humanitarian service.

                          ____________________



