

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4853-H4854]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself and Mr. Smith of 
             Missouri):
       H.R. 2870. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide tax benefits for investments in gigabit 
     opportunity zones; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 2871. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act with respect to compounding pharmacies, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BUCSHON:
       H.R. 2872. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to promote 
     hydropower development at existing non-powered dams, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Evans, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Perry, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Marino, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Dent, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Cartwright, 
             and Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 2873. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 207 Glenside Avenue in 
     Wyncote, Pennsylvania, as the ``Staff Sergeant Peter Taub 
     Post Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 2874. A bill to achieve reforms to improve the 
     financial stability of the National Flood Insurance Program, 
     to enhance the development of more accurate estimates of 
     flood risk through new technology and better maps, to 
     increase the role of private markets in the management of 
     flood insurance risks, and to provide for alternative methods 
     to insure against flood peril, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 2875. A bill to make administrative reforms to the 
     National Flood Insurance Program to increase fairness and 
     accuracy and protect the taxpayer from program fraud and 
     abuse, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Ms. Lofgren, 
             and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 2876. A bill to require States to automatically 
     register eligible voters to vote in elections for Federal 
     office, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Khanna, and Mr. 
             Raskin):
       H.R. 2877. A bill to amend the National Flood Insurance Act 
     of 1968 to prohibit any

[[Page H4854]]

     subsidy for flood insurance coverage for any property owned 
     or operated by the President, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Schiff, and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 2878. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to prohibit employment of children in tobacco-related 
     agriculture by deeming such employment as oppressive child 
     labor; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself and Mrs. 
             Bustos):
       H.R. 2879. A bill to reform apportionments to general 
     aviation airports under the airport improvement program, to 
     improve project delivery at certain airports, and to 
     designate certain airports as disaster relief airports, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 2880. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to promote 
     closed-loop pumped storage hydropower, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself, Mr. Cleaver, and 
             Mr. Moolenaar):
       H.R. 2881. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide payment under part A of the Medicare 
     Program on a reasonable cost basis for anesthesia services 
     furnished by an anesthesiologist in certain rural hospitals 
     in the same manner as payments are provided for anesthesia 
     services furnished by anesthesiologist assistants and 
     certified registered nurse anesthetists in such hospitals, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Ms. Herrera Beutler):
       H.R. 2882. A bill to authorize Federal agencies to 
     establish prize competitions for innovation or adaptation 
     management development relating to ocean acidification; to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. MULLIN (for himself and Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 2883. A bill to establish a more uniform, transparent, 
     and modern process to authorize the construction, connection, 
     operation, and maintenance of international border-crossing 
     facilities for the import and export of oil and natural gas 
     and the transmission of electricity; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and Natural Resources, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY:
       H.R. 2884. A bill to amend section 2201 of title 44, United 
     States Code, to require the preservation of presidential 
     social media accounts, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 2885. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     the United States Army Dust Off crews of the Vietnam War, 
     collectively, in recognition of their extraordinary heroism 
     and life-saving actions in Vietnam; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Serrano, Mr. Schiff, and Mr. Gutierrez):
       H.R. 2886. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to strengthen the provisions relating to child labor; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Conaway, and Mr. Trott):
       H.R. 2887. A bill to regulate certain State impositions on 
     interstate commerce; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri:
       H.R. 2888. A bill to establish the Ste. Genevieve National 
     Historic Site in the State of Missouri, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. DEMINGS (for herself, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, 
             Mr. Soto, Ms. Adams, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Brown of Maryland, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Cleaver, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Crist, Mr. Crowley, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Delaney, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. 
             Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Evans, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Al Green of Texas, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, Mr. Himes, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Keating, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Langevin, 
             Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             McEachin, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Payne, Ms. Pelosi, Mr. 
             Peters, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Raskin, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Sherman, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Vela, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Yarmuth, 
             Mr. Norcross, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Schneider, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, 
             Ms. DeGette, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Dent, 
             Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Fudge, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Heck, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Clay, Mr. Levin, Mr. 
             Sablan, Mr. Beyer, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Ms. Bass, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, and Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California):
       H. Res. 380. A resolution commemorating one year since the 
     Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida, on June 12, 
     2016; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



