

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5108-H5109]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Himes, Mr. Courtney, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. Raskin, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Cicilline, and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 2995. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for the issuance of Green Bonds and to establish the 
     United States Green Bank, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana:
       H.R. 2996. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to modify the work requirement applicable to able-bodied 
     adults without dependents; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. SHUSTER (for himself, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Graves 
             of Missouri, Mr. Mitchell, Ms. Hanabusa, and Ms. 
             Sinema):
       H.R. 2997. A bill to transfer operation of air traffic 
     services currently provided by the Federal Aviation 
     Administration to a separate not-for-profit corporate entity, 
     to reauthorize programs of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. DENT:
       H.R. 2998. A bill making appropriations for military 
     construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related 
     agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and 
     for other purposes.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Mr. Takano, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Connolly, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 2999. A bill to amend title XXVII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to limit co-payment, coinsurance, or other cost-
     sharing requirements applicable to prescription drugs in a 
     specialty drug tier to the dollar amount (or its equivalent) 
     of such requirements applicable to prescription drugs in a 
     non-preferred brand drug tier, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Rohrabacher, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Schweikert, and Mr. Bost):
       H.R. 3000. A bill to terminate the designation of the 
     Islamic Republic of Pakistan as a major non-NATO ally, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Meadows, Ms. 
             Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Rohrabacher, 
             and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 3001. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     establish a Multimodal Freight Funding Formula Program and a 
     National Freight Infrastructure Competitive Grant Program to 
     improve the efficiency and reliability of freight movement in 
     the United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHABOT:
       H.R. 3002. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     require cyber certification for small business development 
     center counselors, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Small Business.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Biggs, and Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 3003. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to modify provisions relating to assistance by States, 
     and political subdivision of States, in the enforcement of 
     Federal immigration laws, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. King of Iowa, and 
             Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 3004. A bill to amend section 276 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act relating to reentry of removed aliens; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Schweikert, and Mr. O'Halleran):
       H.R. 3005. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to establish a bison management plan for Grand Canyon 
     National Park, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BARLETTA (for himself, Mr. DeSaulnier, and Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3006. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to require the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     make loan guarantees and grants to finance certain 
     improvements to school lunch facilities, to train school food 
     service personnel, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, and Appropriations, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself and Mr. 
             Capuano):
       H.R. 3007. A bill to apply the provisions of title 5, 
     United States Code, related to veterans' preference to the 
     Federal Aviation Administration personnel management system, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CONAWAY (for himself, Mr. Culberson, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Carter of Texas, and Mr. Smith of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 3008. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to conduct a special resource study of the George W. 
     Bush Childhood Home, located at 1412 West Ohio Avenue, 
     Midland, Texas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, 
             Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Barletta, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3009. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide that the volume cap for private activity 
     bonds shall not apply to bonds for facilities for furnishing 
     of water and sewage facilities; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Mrs. Brooks of Indiana):
       H.R. 3010. A bill to provide for the identification and 
     documentation of best practices for cyber hygiene by the 
     National Institute of Standards and Technology, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 3011. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for forgiveness of certain overpayments of retired 
     pay paid to deceased retired members of the Armed Forces 
     following their death; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 3012. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to increase the authorization of 
     appropriations for youth workforce investment activities; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 3013. A bill to provide funding for Violent Crime 
     Reduction Partnerships in the most violent communities in the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Appropriations, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 3014. A bill to require servicers to establish a deed-
     for-lease program under which eligible mortgagors may remain 
     in their homes as renters; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.

[[Page H5109]]

  

           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 3015. A bill to amend the Real Estate Settlement 
     Procedures Act of 1974 to provide protections to borrowers, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 3016. A bill to allow homeowners facing foreclosure to 
     avoid deficiency judgments, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Walden, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Shimkus, and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 3017. A bill to amend the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to 
     reauthorize and improve the brownfields program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Abraham, Mr. 
             Bost, Mr. Babin, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Walz, 
             Mr. Cramer, Mr. Hill, Mrs. Love, Mr. Katko, and Ms. 
             Gabbard):
       H.R. 3018. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that veterans may attend pre-apprenticeship programs 
     using certain educational assistance provided by the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Connolly, 
             and Mr. Wittman):
       H.R. 3019. A bill to require executive agencies to avoid 
     using lowest price technically acceptable source selection 
     criteria in certain circumstances, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself and Mr. Pearce):
       H.R. 3020. A bill to increase transparency, accountability, 
     and community engagement within U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection, provide independent oversight of border security 
     activities, improve training for U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection agents and officers, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 3021. A bill to amend the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 
     2007 to stop a scheduled increase in the minimum wage 
     applicable to American Samoa and to provide that any future 
     increases in such minimum wage shall be determined by the 
     Secretary of Labor; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 3022. A bill to prohibit the awarding of discretionary 
     grants to institutions of higher education that will use the 
     grant award for indirect costs; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 3023. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     eliminate the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to pay reporting fees to educational institutions; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHIFF:
       H.R. 3024. A bill to require certain standards and 
     enforcement provisions to prevent child abuse and neglect in 
     residential programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for himself, Ms. Speier, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. Gallego, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Cooper, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             McEachin, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. O'Halleran, 
             and Mr. Suozzi):
       H.R. 3025. A bill to strengthen security and deterrence in 
     Europe and to hold the Russian Federation accountable for 
     violations of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for himself, Mr. 
             Garamendi, and Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3026. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for a percentage of student loan forgiveness for 
     public service employment, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TROTT:
       H.R. 3027. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     improve recordkeeping and information sharing with States 
     regarding military training performed by members of the Armed 
     Forces and other skills developed through military service 
     that translate to civilian occupations to expedite the 
     transition of veterans to post-military employment; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. TROTT:
       H.R. 3028. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide training 
     for school certifying officials; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. VEASEY:
       H.R. 3029. A bill to prevent Federal funds from being used 
     to carry out Executive Order 13799; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Messer, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Tenney, 
             Mr. McGovern, Mr. Engel, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Crist, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Coffman, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Sherman, Ms. Rosen, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, and Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 3030. A bill to help prevent acts of genocide and 
     other atrocity crimes, which threaten national and 
     international security, by enhancing United States Government 
     capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON (for himself, Mr. Lamborn, and Mr. 
             Brooks of Alabama):
       H.J. Res. 106. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to provide that 
     Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States 
     according to their respective numbers, counting the number of 
     persons in each State who are citizens of the United States; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CRIST (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Louisiana, 
             Mr. Arrington, Mr. Bacon, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Bergman, 
             Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Budd, 
             Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Cheney, Mr. Correa, Mrs. Demings, 
             Mr. Evans, Mr. Faso, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Fitzpatrick, 
             Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Garrett, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, 
             Mr. Gottheimer, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Mast, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             Mitchell, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida, 
             Ms. Rosen, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Schneider, Mr. 
             Smucker, Mr. Soto, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Taylor, Ms. 
             Tenney, and Mr. Lewis of Minnesota):
       H. Res. 400. A resolution supporting the designation of a 
     National Day of Civility; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself and Mr. Buchanan):
       H. Res. 401. A resolution urging China, South Korea, 
     Vietnam, Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia, Cambodia, 
     Laos, India, and all nations to outlaw the dog and cat meat 
     trade and to enforce existing laws against the trade; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia (for himself, Ms. Fudge, 
             and Ms. Kelly of Illinois):
       H. Res. 402. A resolution supporting the designation of 
     July 2017 as Uterine Fibroids Awareness Month; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia:
       H. Res. 403. A resolution supporting the designation of 
     March 2018 as Endometriosis Awareness Month; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



