

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4299-S4300]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Young, and Mr. Udall):
       S. 1632. A bill to establish an additional fund in the 
     Treasury to meet existing statutory obligations to reimburse 
     costs reasonably incurred as a result of the reorganization 
     of broadcast television spectrum, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 1633. A bill to promote innovative approaches to outdoor 
     recreation on Federal land and to open up opportunities for 
     collaboration with non-Federal partners, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Markey):

[[Page S4300]]

  

       S. 1634. A bill to require auto dealers to fix outstanding 
     safety recalls before selling or leasing a used passenger 
     motor vehicle; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Ms. HIRONO:
       S. 1635. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend authority for operation of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Regional Office in Manila, the Republic of the 
     Philippines; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Franken, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Hirono, and Ms. 
             Warren):
       S. 1636. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the rules relating to inverted corporations; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Franken, Ms. 
             Duckworth, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 1637. A bill to prohibit the award of Federal Government 
     contracts to inverted domestic corporations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Kaine, Mr. King, and Mr. Scott):
       S. 1638. A bill to provide priority under certain federally 
     assisted housing programs to assist youths who are aging out 
     of foster care, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1639. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas 
     emission fees, reduce the rate of the corporate income tax, 
     provide tax credits to workers, deliver additional benefits 
     to retired and disabled Americans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Coons, Ms. Duckworth, 
             Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
             Hirono, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Schatz, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Van Hollen, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1640. A bill to reform the financing of Senate 
     elections, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.

                          ____________________



