

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6464-H6466]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ELLISON:
       H.R. 3399. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a deduction for interest and taxes relating to 
     land used for dwelling purposes owned or leased by 
     cooperative housing corporations; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
       H.R. 3400. A bill to promote innovative approaches to 
     outdoor recreation on Federal land and to open up 
     opportunities for collaboration with non-Federal partners, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committees on Agriculture, 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, Energy and Commerce, and 
     Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself and Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 3401. A bill to amend chapter 301 of subtitle VI of 
     title 49, United States Code, to update or provide new motor 
     vehicle safety standards for highly automated vehicles, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN (for himself, Mr. Schrader, Ms. Herrera 
             Beutler, Mr. Kind, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Messer, and Mr. Valadao):
       H.R. 3402. A bill to amend the fresh fruit and vegetable 
     program under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch 
     Act to include canned, dried, frozen, or pureed fruits and 
     vegetables; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, and Mr. Wittman):
       H.R. 3403. A bill to provide for an interagency cyber 
     victim coordinator to respond to data breaches and other 
     cyber attacks on Federal employees; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARDENAS:
       H.R. 3404. A bill to provide for the establishment in the 
     National Highway Traffic Safety Administration of a Highly 
     Automated Vehicle Advisory Council; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California (for herself and Ms. 
             Matsui):
       H.R. 3405. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     expand the exemption from the motor vehicle safety standards 
     for testing or evaluation purposes to cover manufacturers of 
     highly automated vehicles and automated driving system 
     components, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. UPTON (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 3406. A bill to amend section 30113 of title 49, 
     United States Code, to increase the annual number of vehicles 
     that may be exempted for the development of new vehicle 
     safety features, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself and Ms. Clarke of New 
             York):
       H.R. 3407. A bill to amend chapter 301 of subtitle VI of 
     title 49, United States Code, to require a cybersecurity plan 
     for highly automated vehicles, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 3408. A bill to amend section 30113 of title 49, 
     United States Code to establish new exemptions for motor 
     vehicle safety standards, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Lance, 
             Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, and Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas):
       H.R. 3409. A bill to amend the Federal Trade Commission Act 
     to prohibit pyramid promotional schemes and to ensure that 
     compensation is not based upon recruitment of participants 
     into a plan or operation, but on sales to individuals who use 
     and consume the products or services sold, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Hastings, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Rush, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Cohen, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. McGovern, 
             Ms. Bass, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, and Mr. Richmond):
       H.R. 3410. A bill to enhance public health and safety by 
     improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the Federal 
     prison system for incarcerated pregnant women and mothers by 
     establishing a pilot program of critical-stage, developmental 
     nurseries in Federal prisons for children born to inmates, 
     with risk and needs assessments, and risk and recidivism 
     reduction; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mrs. 
             Dingell):
       H.R. 3411. A bill to establish in the National Highway 
     Traffic Safety Administration an Automated Driving System 
     Cybersecurity Advisory Council to make recommendations 
     regarding cybersecurity for

[[Page H6465]]

     the testing, deployment, and updating of automated driving 
     systems; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MULLIN:
       H.R. 3412. A bill to amend section 30103 of title 49, 
     United States Code, to establish sole authority for the 
     National Highway Traffic Safety Administration over the 
     regulation of highly automated vehicles, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 3413. A bill to establish in the National Highway 
     Traffic Safety Administration an Advisory Council on 
     Improving Mobility Access for Underserved Populations and 
     Senior Citizens; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 3414. A bill to establish in the National Highway 
     Traffic Safety Administration a Disability Mobility Advisory 
     Council to make recommendations regarding advancing mobility 
     access for the disabled community with respect to the 
     deployment of automated driving systems; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 3415. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to ensure appropriate care for victims of sexual 
     assault, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 3416. A bill to establish in the National Highway 
     Traffic Safety Administration a Rural and Mountainous 
     Advisory Council to make recommendations regarding the 
     testing and deployment of highly automated vehicles and 
     automated driving systems in areas that are rural, remote, 
     mountainous, insular, or unmapped; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
       H.R. 3417. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to carry out a pilot program to improve 
     community-based care infrastructure; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, 
             Ms. Bass, Mr. Langevin, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 3418. A bill to require States to inform children in 
     foster care under the responsibility of the State who have 
     attained 14 years of age of all government programs under 
     which the child may be eligible for financial assistance for 
     expenses related to higher education; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 3419. A bill to repeal the Department of Agriculture 
     bioenergy subsidy programs and other related subsidy 
     programs; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, and 
     Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 3420. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas 
     emission fees, reduce the rate of the corporate income tax, 
     provide tax credits to workers, deliver additional benefits 
     to retired and disabled Americans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, Veterans' 
     Affairs, Energy and Commerce, and Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 3421. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a 
     database of exemptions for motor vehicles from the Federal 
     motor vehicle safety standards, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana (for himself and Ms. 
             Stefanik):
       H.R. 3422. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to authorize an interstate teaching 
     application program; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Cole, Mr. Peters, and 
             Mr. Trott):
       H.R. 3423. A bill to establish the Commission on Long Term 
     Social Security Solvency, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Levin, and Mr. 
             Doggett):
       H.R. 3424. A bill to prohibit the award of Federal 
     Government contracts to inverted domestic corporations, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Mr. Cook, Mr. Diaz-
             Balart, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Walker, Mr. Rokita, Mr. 
             Ross, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. 
             Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Jordan, Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida, Mr. 
             Rutherford, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Garrett, Mr. 
             Collins of New York, Mr. Ratcliffe, and Mr. Posey):
       H.R. 3425. A bill to amend the Comprehensive Iran 
     Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 to 
     secure the authority of State and local governments to adopt 
     and enforce measures restricting investment in business 
     enterprises in Iran, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. McCollum, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Matsui, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, and Miss Rice of New York):
       H.R. 3426. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to remove the exclusion of Medicare coverage for 
     hearing aids and examinations therefor, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Yoder, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 3427. A bill to provide for Federal agencies to 
     develop public access policies relating to research conducted 
     by employees of that agency or from funds administered by 
     that agency; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 3428. A bill to establish a website for Federal 
     Government apps, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas (for himself, Mr. O'Rourke, 
             and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 3429. A bill to prohibit the removal from the United 
     States of certain veterans, to expedite their naturalization, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Armed Services, and 
     Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE:
       H.R. 3430. A bill to establish in the National Highway 
     Traffic Safety Administration a Highly Automated Vehicle 
     Information Sharing Advisory Council to make recommendations 
     regarding the development of a framework that allows 
     manufacturers of highly automated vehicles to share 
     information related to testing or deployment events on public 
     streets; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Graves of 
             Louisiana, and Mr. Abraham):
       H.R. 3431. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow the volumetric excise tax credit for liquid 
     fuel derived from natural gas through the Fischer-Tropsch 
     process; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas:
       H.R. 3432. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act relating to the reimbursement of travel expenses; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself and Mr. Bost):
       H.R. 3433. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     increase the number of base acres upon which agricultural 
     producers are authorized to grow fruits and vegetables 
     without a resulting reduction in payment acres on their farm 
     when the resulting produce is used to help alleviate a food 
     desert, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. LEVIN (for himself, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. Schiff, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 3434. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the rules relating to inverted corporations; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 3435. A bill to prohibit the transportation of certain 
     volatile crude oil by rail; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Mr. Schweikert, and Ms. Sinema):

[[Page H6466]]

  

       H.R. 3436. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to prepare a southwest border threat analysis, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 3437. A bill to prevent States from counting certain 
     expenditures as State spending to reduce TANF work 
     requirements; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 3438. A bill to increase the employment, job 
     retention, and earnings of former TANF recipients; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PITTENGER:
       H.R. 3439. A bill to facilitate better information sharing 
     to assist in the fight against the funding of terrorist 
     activities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself and Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen):
       H.R. 3440. A bill to authorize the cancellation of removal 
     and adjustment of status of certain individuals who are long-
     term United States residents and who entered the United 
     States as children and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER (for himself, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Harper, and 
             Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia):
       H. Con. Res. 73. Concurrent resolution effectuating the 
     Compact for a Balanced Budget; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Gallego, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Polis, Mr. Gomez, Mr. 
             Sablan, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Correa, and Mrs. 
             Torres):
       H. Res. 476. A resolution supporting the inclusion and 
     meaningful engagement of Latinos in environmental protection 
     and conservation efforts; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Biggs, Mr. 
             Johnson of Louisiana, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
             King of Iowa, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Meadows, Mr. 
             Garrett, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Blum, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. 
             Perry, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Brat, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Harris, Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Gosar, and Mr. 
             Amodei):
       H. Res. 477. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that a special counsel should be appointed 
     by the Attorney General or his designee to investigate 
     misconduct by former Attorney General Loretta Lynch and 
     former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James B. 
     Comey with regard to the investigation of former Secretary of 
     State Hillary Clinton for mishandling of classified data and 
     use of an unauthorized email server; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.

                          ____________________



