

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4612-S4613]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-30, 
     concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Switzerland for defense 
     articles and services estimated to cost $115 million. After 
     this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a 
     news release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                               Gregory M. Kausner,
                                                  Acting Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-30

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 35(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) (U) Prospective Purchaser: The Government of 
     Switzerland.
       (ii) (U) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $25 million.
       Other $90 million.
       Total $115 million.
       (iii) (U) Description and Quantity or Quantities of 
     Articles or Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       The following defense articles and services have been 
     requested as part of a Service Life Extension Program for 
     Switzerland's F/A-18C/D aircraft:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Up to fifty (50) Multifunctional Information Distribution 
     System Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) with 
     Concurrent Multi-Net 4 (CMN-4) Capability.
       Non-MDE includes: Fifty (50) ARC-210 GEN 5 RT-1900A(C) 
     radios w/Second Generation Anti-Jam Tactical UHF Radio for 
     NATO (SATURN) frequency hopping; twenty (20) Joint Helmet 
     Mounted Cueing System (JHMCS) Night Vision Cueing Display 
     (NVCD); CIT Automated Dependence Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-
     B) Out; software enhancements to the APG-73 radar; 
     improvements to the F/A-18 Software Configuration Set (SCS) 
     29C; and sustainment for the ALQ-165 Airborne Self Protection 
     Jammer (ASPJ) system. Operational support for these 
     modifications will be provided through upgrades to the 
     purchaser's unique Mission Data System. Also included are: 
     system integration and testing; software development and 
     integration; support equipment; spare and repair parts; 
     maintenance personnel and pilot familiarization training; 
     software support; publications and technical documents; U.S. 
     Government and contractor technical assistance; and other 
     related elements of logistics and program support.
       (iv) (U) Military Department: Navy (XX-P-LAS).
       (v) (U) Prior Related Cases, if any: SZ-P-LAN.
       (vi) (U) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or 
     Agreed to be Paid: None.
       (vii) (U) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the 
     Defense Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See 
     Attached Annex.
       (viii) (U) Date Report Delivered to Congress: July 28, 
     2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

             (U) Government of Switzerland--F/A-18 Upgrades

       (U) The Government of Switzerland has requested the 
     possible sale of a Service Life

[[Page S4613]]

     Extension Program for its F/A-18C/D aircraft to include up to 
     fifty (50) Multifunctional Information Distribution System 
     Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) with Concurrent 
     Multi-Net 4 (CMN-4) capability; fifty (50) ARC-210 GEN 5 RT-
     1900A(C) radios w/Second Generation Anti-Jam Tactical UHF 
     Radio for NATO (SATURN) frequency hopping; twenty (20) Joint 
     Helmet Mounted Cueing System (JHMCS) Night Vision Cueing 
     Display (NVCD); CIT Automated Dependence Surveillance-
     Broadcast (ADS-B) Out; software enhancements to the APG-73 
     radar; improvements to the F/A-18 Software Configuration Set 
     (SCS) 29C; and sustainment for the ALQ-165 Airborne Self 
     Protection Jammer (ASPJ) system. Operational support for 
     these modifications will be provided through upgrades to the 
     purchaser's unique Mission Data System. Also included are: 
     system integration and testing; software development and 
     integration; support equipment; spare and repair parts; 
     maintenance personnel and pilot familiarization training; 
     software support; publications and technical documents; U.S. 
     Government and contractor technical assistance; and other 
     related elements of logistics and program support. The 
     estimated total case value is $115 million.
       (U) This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign 
     policy and national security objectives of the United States 
     by helping to improve the security of Switzerland which has 
     been, and continues to be an important force for political 
     stability and economic progress in Europe. Switzerland is 
     also a member of the NATO Partnership for Peace (PfP) 
     program.
       (U) The proposed sale will allow the Swiss Air Force to 
     extend the useful life of its F/A-18 fighter aircraft and 
     enhance their survivability. Further, the proposed sale will 
     increase Switzerland's tactical aviation operational 
     capabilities. Switzerland will have no difficulty absorbing 
     this equipment and support into its armed forces.
       (U) The proposed sale of this equipment and support will 
     not alter the basic military balance in the region.
       (U) The principal contractors will be the Boeing Company, 
     McDonnell Douglas Corporation, St. Louis, MO; Data Link 
     Solutions LLC, Wayne, NJ; Rockwell Collins, Cedar Rapids, IA; 
     Rockwell Collins ESA Vision System LLC, Fort Worth, TX. There 
     are no known offset agreements associated with this potential 
     sale.
       (U) Implementation of this proposed sale will not require 
     the assignment of any additional U.S. Government personnel or 
     contractor representatives to Switzerland. However, multiple 
     trips to Switzerland involving U.S. Government and contractor 
     representatives will be required for technical reviews/
     support, and program management.
       (U) There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense 
     readiness as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-30

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) (U) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. (U) The hardware and software being purchased is being 
     used to upgrade Switzerland's existing F/A-18C/D Hornet 
     aircraft. Description and classification of the hardware and 
     software being purchased are detailed in the following 
     paragraphs.
       a. (U) The MIDS/JTRS with CMN-4 is a secure, scalable, 
     modular, wireless, and jam-resistant digital information 
     system currently providing Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN), 
     Link-16, and J-Voice to airborne, ground, and maritime joint 
     and coalition warfighting platforms. MIDS provides real-time 
     and low-cost information and situational awareness via 
     digital and voice, communications within the JTRS Enterprise. 
     The MIDS/JTRS hardware is UNCLASSIFIED. The MIDS/JTRS 
     software requires a crypto key be loaded in order to 
     function. The crypto key required for operation is a 
     Controlled Cryptographic Item (CCI).
       b. (U) The ARC-210 GEN 5 RT-1990A(C) is a digital radio 
     capable of transmit and receipt of Digital Communication 
     System, Variable Message Format (DCS/VMF) encrypted data 
     messages. The RT-1990 hardware is UNCLASSIFIED. The RT 1900 
     software requires a crypto key be loaded in order to 
     function. The crypto key required for operation is a 
     Controlled Cryptographic Item (CCI).
       c. (U) The AN/AVS-11 Night Vision Cueing Device (NVCD) is 
     UNCLASSIFIED but is capable of high resolution imaging. This 
     capability allows reduced visibility weapon delivery using 
     Switzerland's F/A-18C/D aircraft. While the NVCD hardware is 
     UNCLASSIFIED, this item requires Enhanced End Use Monitoring 
     (EEUM).
       2. (U) If a technologically advanced adversary were to 
     obtain knowledge of the specific hardware and software 
     elements, the information could be used to develop 
     countermeasures which might reduce weapons systems 
     effectiveness or be used in the development of a system with 
     similar or advanced capabilities.
       3. (U) A determination has been made that the Government of 
     Switzerland can provide substantially the same degree of 
     protection for the sensitive technology being released as the 
     U.S. Government. This proposed sale is necessary to the 
     furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and national security 
     objectives outlined in the policy justification.
       4. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Switzerland.

                          ____________________



