

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 92 (Friday, May 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 92 (Friday, May 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4614-H4615]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H.R. 2749. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the oversight of contracts awarded by the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself and Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California):
       H.R. 2750. A bill to amend the Financial Stability Act of 
     2010 to preserve the independent funding the Office of 
     Financial Research; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. McCaul, 
             and Mr. Garrett):
       H.R. 2751. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish U.S. Immigration and Customs and 
     Enforcement, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. McCaul, 
             and Mr. Garrett):
       H.R. 2752. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish United States Citizenship and Immigration 
     Services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mrs. Brooks of Indiana):
       H.R. 2753. A bill to provide for loan repayment for 
     teachers in high-need schools; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. McGOVERN (for himself, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. 
             McCollum, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 2754. A bill to authorize the award of a military 
     service medal to members of the Armed Forces who were exposed 
     to ionizing radiation as a result of participation in the 
     testing of nuclear weapons or under other circumstances; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 2755. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act relating to beach monitoring, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr. Levin, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, and Ms. Sanchez):
       H.R. 2756. A bill to amend the Trade Act of 1974 to 
     strengthen trade enforcement, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY:
       H.R. 2757. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     establish a National Center for Violence Prevention, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
       H.R. 2758. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to conduct annual surveys of veterans on experiences 
     with medical facilities of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr. Serrano, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Correa, 
             Mr. Vela, and Mr. Evans):
       H.R. 2759. A bill to establish naturalization offices at 
     initial military training sites; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr. Serrano, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. McGovern, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Correa, Mr. Vela, and Mr. 
             Veasey):
       H.R. 2760. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to identify aliens who have served, or are serving, 
     in the Armed Forces of the United States when those aliens 
     apply for an immigration benefit or are placed in an 
     immigration enforcement proceeding, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr. Serrano, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Correa, and Mr. Vela):

[[Page H4615]]

  

       H.R. 2761. A bill to amend section 212(d)(5) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to allow certain alien 
     veterans to be paroled into the United States to receive 
     health care furnished by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Carbajal, 
             Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Davis 
             of California, Ms. DeGette, Ms. DeLauro, Mrs. 
             Demings, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Engel, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
             Huffman, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Keating, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Levin, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan 
             of New Mexico, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. McGovern, Mr. McNerney, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. 
             Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Mr. Schiff, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Sires, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Ellison, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H. Res. 370. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to require that a standing committee (or 
     subcommittee thereof) hearing be held whenever there is a 
     moment of silence in the House for a tragedy involving gun 
     violence; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas (for herself, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. McCollum, and 
             Mr. Ellison):
       H. Res. 371. A resolution recognizing the commencement of 
     Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting and spiritual 
     renewal, and commending Muslims in the United States and 
     throughout the world for their faith; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



