

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H3308]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM

  (Mr. HOYER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise for the purpose of inquiring of the 
majority leader the schedule for tomorrow, and I yield to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. McCarthy).
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow the House will vote on H.R. 1644, 
our North Korean sanctions bill. I do believe it is important that the 
House speak with one voice against the recent actions of the Kim 
regime.
  Next, as I said in our colloquy on Friday, additional legislative 
items are possible. As soon as any items are added to our schedule, I 
will be sure to notify Members. However, Members should be prepared to 
be here and voting tomorrow.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I would hope the majority leader might give 
us some idea. Obviously, everybody in this town and around the country 
believes the possible legislation that might come forward is a version 
of, revision of, the American Health Care Act that has been pending for 
some time not necessarily on the House floor, but in this House.
  Can the gentleman tell me whether or not Members ought to prepare for 
a debate on that bill tomorrow? And if so, does the gentleman know 
whether there will be a CBO score on the bill that might be brought to 
the floor, and thirdly, the timing for tomorrow so that Members might 
plan on what the schedule would be?
  I yield to my friend.
  Mr. McCARTHY. I thank my friend for yielding. I appreciate his 
questions.
  As has been reported in the press, we have made significant progress 
on our healthcare bill. When we are ready to bring the bill to the 
floor, I will make an announcement and relay scheduling information to 
all Members.
  Mr. HOYER. I asked a question, though, you did not address. If, in 
fact, the healthcare bill were brought to the floor tomorrow, would it 
have a score from the Congressional Budget Office?
  I yield to my friend.
  Mr. McCARTHY. I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  As the gentleman clearly knows, there is a CBO score out there right 
now on the bill. As the gentleman knows, we are making progress; and as 
soon as we designate that, yes, we will move the bill, and I will 
notify the gentleman.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I presume, therefore, Members ought to be 
prepared for that bill to come forward, and what we hear, we don't 
know, is in a revised form.
  Mr. Speaker, we hope, if it comes forward in a revised form, that it 
is accompanied with a Congressional Budget Office score so that Members 
on both sides of the aisle might know the ramifications of the changes 
in the bill.
  Unless the gentleman wants to say anything further, I will yield 
back, but I hope that we can get as much notice and information as 
possible, Mr. Leader.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



