

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2609]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE LEWISTON-AUBURN ROTARY CLUB

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, on May 1, 1917, the International 
Association of Rotary Clubs welcomed a new member into its growing 
global network of neighbors, friends, and leaders working together for 
positive change in their communities and around the world. I rise today 
to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Rotary Club of Lewiston-
Auburn in my home State of Maine.
  There are more than 35,000 Rotary Clubs worldwide. The Lewiston-
Auburn club was the 291st to be chartered and is part of the first 
great wave of expansion that took the Rotary movement from major 
American cities to smaller communities and to Canada and Europe.
  It is remarkable that what began as a small group of civic leaders in 
Chicago in 1905 has grown to a service organization of 1.2 million 
dedicated members in more than 200 countries and territories around the 
world. In any language, Rotarians live up to their motto of ``Service 
Above Self.''
  Rotary International is a powerful force for good around the world. 
The global effort to eradicate polio is considered to be the most 
successful public health campaign in human history, one that would not 
be possible without Rotary's commitment. When Rotary launched its 
PolioPlus program back in 1985, it was described as a ``gift from the 
20th century to the 21st.'' It has been just that.
  In addition to its strong support for PolioPlus, the Lewiston-Auburn 
Club is part of a Rotary International effort to make affordable and 
safe water more widely available in Haiti. As a result of this effort, 
a tanker truck was purchased to address this great humanitarian need.
  Locally, the Lewiston-Auburn Rotary Club has a special focus on 
families and children. The club has been a leader in the creation of 
Lewiston's Universally Accessible Playground, which will provide 
recreation for all, regardless of physical or developmental 
limitations. The club also sponsors an annual event to benefit the 
Autism Society of Maine and awards scholarships to area high-school 
graduates pursuing higher education.
  ``Service Above Self'' has a special meaning to the members of the 
Lewiston-Auburn Rotary. The application for membership in Rotary 
International was signed on March, 21, 1917, by Frank W. Hulett of 
Lewiston. On June 6, 1918, Captain Hulett gave his life in the defense 
of freedom during the World War I Battle of Belleau Wood in France. 
Hulett Square in Lewiston, the Frank W. Hulett VFW Post, and the 
Lewiston-Auburn Rotary Club all help to preserve the memory of this 
great hero.
  When Paul Harris led the way in founding Rotary International 112 
years ago, he said this: ``Whatever Rotary may mean to us, to the world 
it will be known by the results it achieves.'' The results are 
inspiring and the world is grateful. The Rotary Club of Lewiston-
Auburn, ME, is part of that effort, and I congratulate its members for 
this accomplishments and contributions.
  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to commemorate the 100th 
anniversary of the Rotary Club of Lewiston-Auburn, ME. There are over 
35,000 Rotary Clubs worldwide, with the LA Rotary being the 291st. 
Since 1917, the LA Rotary has demonstrated a commitment to community 
and global service by supporting local organizations, awarding 
scholarships to local students, and providing clean water to 
communities in Haiti. In their 100 years of service, this exceptional 
organization has gained members who represent the unique and diverse 
business community of the Lewiston-Auburn area.
  The LA Rotary was founded by Captain Frank W. Hulett, who gave his 
life during WWI on June 6, 1918, at the Battle of Belleau Wood in 
France. Since Captain Hulett signed the application for membership of 
Rotary International on March 21, 1917, the LA Rotary has made great 
contributions to the worldwide Rotary organization of business and 
professional leaders. The LA Rotary has upheld an international 
presence by providing humanitarian service, encouraging high ethical 
standards in all vocations, and helping to build and maintain goodwill 
and peace throughout the world.
  I applaud the LA Rotary's emphasis on local and global charity and 
giving back to their local communities. The LA Rotary is sponsored by 
the many donors who attend their successful fundraisers, including one 
that takes place at the famous Lewiston Hot Air Balloon Festival. The 
money raised from these fundraisers has gone towards several valuable 
projects like the Autism Movie Events, an ongoing project in 
partnership with a local movie theatre and the Autism Society of Maine. 
The LA Rotary has sustained their all-inclusive pattern by donating to 
the construction of the Lewiston Universally Accessible Playground 
Project. The playground will be barrier free, with smooth and level 
surfaces to make it easier for those with physical limitations, and is 
meant to provide an attractive and meaningful space for all, regardless 
of physical or sensory development. Another example of their excellent 
charity work is that, each May, the LA Rotary also gives back to local 
students by choosing seven high school seniors throughout the State to 
award $1,000 college scholarships.
  I wish to join the communities of Lewiston and Auburn, as well as the 
State of Maine, in congratulating the LA Rotary for this remarkable 
achievement. I look forward to following their continued growth and 
service, and I thank them for their commitment to bettering Maine and 
the world.

                          ____________________



