

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4176-H4178]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BACON:
       H.R. 2350. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to foster 
     greater transparency in and establish standards relating to 
     the administration of construction contracts, to provide 
     prospective construction contractors with information about 
     an agency's policies on the administration of change orders 
     to allow such contractors to make informed business decisions 
     regarding the pricing of bids or proposals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Takano, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
             Mr. Evans, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Norton, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Payne, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Adams, Mr. Gallego, 
             Mr. Cohen, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Clay, Mr. Espaillat, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Correa, Mr. Vela, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 2351. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize grants to provide treatment for diabetes in 
     minority communities; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. PITTENGER:
       H.R. 2352. A bill to provide for the recognition of the 
     Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. 
             Byrne, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Langevin, and Mr. 
             Nolan):
       H.R. 2353. A bill to reauthorize the Carl D. Perkins Career 
     and Technical Education Act of 2006; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BYRNE (for himself, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Grothman, 
             Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida, Mr. Mitchell, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Deutch, and Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida):
       H.R. 2354. A bill to amend the Longshore and Harbor 
     Workers' Compensation Act to provide a definition of 
     recreational vessel for purposes of such Act; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Smucker, and Ms. Fudge):
       H.R. 2355. A bill to provide for integrated plan permits, 
     to establish an Office of the Municipal Ombudsman, to promote 
     green infrastructure, and to require the revision of 
     financial capability guidance; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Engel, 
             Mr. Rush, Mr. Khanna, and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 2356. A bill to protect broadband users from unfair or 
     deceptive practices relating to privacy or data security, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO:
       H.R. 2357. A bill to provide for the establishment of the 
     United States Employee Ownership Bank, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Ted Lieu 
             of California, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Chabot, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Issa, Mr. Kinzinger, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Ms. Meng, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Rohrabacher, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mrs. Wagner, Mrs. Mimi Walters of 
             California, and Mr. Wilson of South Carolina):
       H.R. 2358. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
     collectively, to the Chinese American Veterans of World War 
     II, in recognition of their dedicated service during World 
     War II; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Budd, Mr. King of New York, and Mrs. 
             Wagner):
       H.R. 2359. A bill to amend the civil liability requirements 
     under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to include requirements 
     relating to class actions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Meeks, 
             Mr. Conyers, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Griffith, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Payne, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Richmond, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Swalwell of California, and Mr. Clay):
       H.R. 2360. A bill to provide for systemic research, 
     treatment, prevention, awareness, and dissemination of 
     information with respect to sports-related and other 
     concussions; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and Mr. Schrader):
       H.R. 2361. A bill to promote energy savings in residential 
     and commercial buildings and industry, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 2362. A bill to assure equity in contracting between 
     the Federal Government and small business concerns, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
       H.R. 2363. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to reauthorize the 
     predisaster hazard mitigation program; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Ms. Meng, 
             and Mr. Knight):
       H.R. 2364. A bill to amend the Small Business Investment 
     Act of 1958 to increase the amount that certain banks and 
     savings associations may invest in small business investment 
     companies, subject to the approval of the appropriate Federal 
     banking agency, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Small Business.
           By Mr. COOK:
       H.R. 2365. A bill to convey certain Federal land in 
     California to Apple Valley, California, Twentynine Palms, 
     California, Barstow, California, and Victorville, California; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.

[[Page H4177]]

  

           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Katko, Mr. Perlmutter, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Sinema, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 2366. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code to make student loans dischargeable; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER:
       H.R. 2367. A bill to limit the amount of authorization of 
     appropriations for the Department of Defense unless the 
     Secretary of Defense implements cost-saving recommendations 
     contained in a certain study by the Defense Business Board, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. 
             Biggs):
       H.R. 2368. A bill to authorize the use of experimental 
     drugs, biological products, and devices by patients diagnosed 
     with a terminal illness in accordance with State law, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. FRANKEL of Florida (for herself, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Francis Rooney of Florida, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Diaz-
             Balart, Mr. Hastings, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Thomas J. 
             Rooney of Florida, and Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 2369. A bill to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to 
     provide for a deferral of the payment of a duty upon the sale 
     of certain used yachts, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GAETZ:
       H.R. 2370. A bill to authorize Escambia County, Florida, to 
     convey certain property that was formerly part of Santa Rosa 
     Island National Monument and that was conveyed to Escambia 
     County subject to restrictions on use and reconveyance; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Biggs, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Huffman, Mr. LaMalfa, Ms. 
             McSally, Mrs. Noem, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Schweikert, 
             and Mr. McClintock):
       H.R. 2371. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     Western Area Power Administration to establish a pilot 
     project to provide increased transparency for customers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Knight, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Schweikert, 
             Mr. Bilirakis, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Marchant, 
             Mr. Bishop of Michigan, and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 2372. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify the rules relating to veteran health 
     insurance and eligibility for the premium tax credit; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Buchanan):
       H.R. 2373. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act with respect to the accreditation of osteopathic 
     residency training programs for purposes of graduate medical 
     education payments under the Medicare program; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. KIHUEN (for himself, Mr. Amodei, Ms. Rosen, and 
             Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 2374. A bill to facilitate certain pinyon-juniper 
     related projects in Lincoln County, Nevada, to modify the 
     boundaries of certain wilderness areas in the State of 
     Nevada, and to fully implement the White Pine County 
     Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. 
             Lipinski, and Mrs. Torres):
       H.R. 2375. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     provide for private lactation areas in the terminals of large 
     and medium hub airports, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Burgess, 
             and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H.R. 2376. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to protect and strengthen the drug supply chain 
     in the United States by closing several statutory gaps in the 
     penalty provisions of such Act that apply to drug diversion 
     and counterfeiting; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI:
       H.R. 2377. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to include individuals participating in pre-
     apprenticeship programs offered by employers and provide that 
     such employers may be reimbursed under such Act; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Ms. Jayapal, and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 2378. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reform the American opportunity tax credit to support 
     college savings; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 2379. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     establish a program of research regarding the risks posed by 
     the presence of dioxin, synthetic fibers, chemical 
     fragrances, and other components of feminine hygiene 
     products; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 2380. A bill to provide for the development and use of 
     technology for personalized handguns, to require that all 
     handguns manufactured or sold in, or imported into, the 
     United States incorporate such technology, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MOOLENAAR (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Bishop 
             of Michigan, and Mr. Huizenga):
       H.R. 2381. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     prescribe safety standards for autocycles and related 
     equipment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 2382. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 to 
     eliminate certain Federal nutrition requirements, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Mr. Loebsack, and Mr. 
             Pascrell):
       H.R. 2383. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reform and extend the incentives for biodiesel; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H.R. 2384. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     modify certain provisions relating to multiemployer pensions, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. PAULSEN:
       H.R. 2385. A bill to address tariff inversions that create 
     an incentive for United States companies to move production 
     out of the United States, to eliminate the tariff inversion 
     on certain television components, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Holding, and Mr. Nolan):
       H.R. 2386. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the tax rate for excise tax on investment 
     income of private foundations; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Pocan, and Mr. Delaney):
       H.R. 2387. A bill to establish an Employee Ownership and 
     Participation Initiative, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Ms. Kaptur, and Mr. 
             Lipinski):
       H.R. 2388. A bill to provide that Poland may be designated 
     as a program country under the Visa Waiver Program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 2389. A bill to reauthorize the West Valley 
     demonstration project, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, and Mr. Meadows):
       H.R. 2390. A bill to strengthen prohibitions regarding the 
     Palestine Liberation Organization, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SANFORD (for himself, Mr. Meadows, and Mr. Rice 
             of South Carolina):
       H.R. 2391. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to phaseout the Mass Transit Account; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
       H.R. 2392. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     establish direct care registered nurse-to-patient staffing 
     ratio requirements in hospitals, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as

[[Page H4178]]

     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
       H.R. 2393. A bill to create a grant program for 
     governmental and other nonprofit organizations that support 
     startup businesses in formation and early growth stages by 
     providing entrepreneurs with resources and services to 
     produce viable businesses, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Ms. Speier, and Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 2394. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to include fuel cells using electromechanical processes 
     for purposes of the energy tax credit; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Gutierrez, and Ms. 
             Jayapal):
       H.R. 2395. A bill to direct the Federal Trade Commission to 
     issue regulations to prohibit any bail bond agent or person 
     who underwrites or insures the provision of a bail bond who 
     require a bonded individual to wear an ankle monitor or other 
     homing device as a condition on issuing such a bond from 
     charging any fee associated with such monitor or device that 
     exceeds the cost to the bail bond agent or person who 
     underwrites or insures the provision of a bail bond of 
     maintaining and operating such monitor or device; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. TROTT (for himself and Mr. Clay):
       H.R. 2396. A bill to amend the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act to 
     update the exception for certain annual notices provided by 
     financial institutions; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. 
             Engel, and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 2397. A bill to amend the North Korean Human Rights 
     Act of 2004 to authorize further actions to promote freedom 
     of information and democracy in North Korea, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Black, 
             Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Marino, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Rush, Ms. Norton, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Richmond, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Conyers, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Tipton, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Evans, Mr. Yarmuth, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Correa, Mr. Crowley, Mrs. Torres, Mrs. Demings, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Mitchell, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham 
             of New Mexico, Ms. Adams, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Mr. Clyburn, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Emmer, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Taylor, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Granger, Mr. Blum, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Castro of Texas, Mr. Hill, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Cooper, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Cramer, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Wittman, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, Mr. Nadler, Ms. DeGette, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mrs. Hartzler, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Al Green 
             of Texas, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Titus, Ms. 
             Plaskett, Mr. Heck, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Levin, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Kind, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Stivers, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Mr. Denham, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Ms. Matsui, Ms. Speier, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             Messer, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Polis, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Barletta, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Meeks, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Lamborn, Mr. Reed, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Schiff, and Mrs. Lowey):
       H. Res. 314. A resolution recognizing National Foster Care 
     Month as an opportunity to raise awareness about the 
     challenges of children in the foster care system, and 
     encouraging Congress to implement policy to improve the lives 
     of children in the foster care system; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas (for herself, Mr. 
             McKinley, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Clay, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, and Ms. 
             Lofgren):
       H. Res. 315. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of May 6 through May 12, 2017, as 
     National Nurses Week; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. ROHRABACHER (for himself and Mr. Meeks):
       H. Res. 316. A resolution celebrating the success of the 
     Marshall Plan in fostering peace and prosperity in the seven 
     decades since its conception and affirming the continued 
     relevance of the Marshall Plan for the United States and its 
     global allies and the values for which it stood; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Poe 
             of Texas, and Mr. Deutch):
       H. Res. 317. A resolution calling for the unconditional 
     release of United States citizens and legal permanent 
     resident aliens being held for political purposes by the 
     Government of Iran; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



