

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2881-S2882]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Leahy, Mr. Brown, Ms. Hassan, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1081. A bill to establish an Employee Ownership and 
     Participation Initiative, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Leahy, and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 1082. A bill to provide for the establishment of the 
     United States Employee Ownership Bank, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mrs. McCaskill, and Mr. 
             Grassley):
       S. 1083. A bill to amend section 1214 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to provide for stays during a period that the 
     Merit Systems Protection Board lacks a quorum; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. 
             Lankford):
       S. 1084. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     require that the Director of the Bureau of Prisons ensure 
     that each chief executive officer of a Federal penal or 
     correctional institution provides a secure storage area 
     located outside of the secure perimeter of the Federal penal 
     or correctional institution for firearms carried by certain 
     employees of the Bureau of Prisons, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mrs. Capito, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Cruz, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. 
             Hoeven, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Lankford, Mr. 
             Lee, Mr. McCain, Mr. Moran, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Portman, 
             Mr. Risch, Mr. Tillis, and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1085. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide enhanced penalties for convicted murderers who kill 
     or target America's public safety officers; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 1086. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     remove the prohibition on eligibility for TRICARE Reserve 
     Select of members of the reserve components of the Armed 
     Forces who are eligible to enroll in a health benefits plan 
     under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 1087. A bill to ensure America's law enforcement 
     officers have access to lifesaving equipment needed to defend 
     themselves and civilians from attacks by terrorists and 
     violent criminals; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Lankford):
       S. 1088. A bill to require the collection of voluntary 
     feedback on services provided by agencies, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 1089. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     review and update a report on the energy and environmental 
     benefits of the re-refining of used lubricating oil; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

[[Page S2882]]

  

           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Risch, Mr. 
             Gardner, and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 1090. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to facilitate water leasing and water transfers to promote 
     conservation and efficiency; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 1091. A bill to establish a Federal Task Force to 
     Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Daines, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mr. Risch, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 1092. A bill to protect the right of law-abiding 
     citizens to transport knives interstate, notwithstanding a 
     patchwork of local and State prohibitions; to the Committee 
     on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 1093. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to improve pediatric medical device application 
     procedures; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.

                          ____________________



