

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4915-H4916]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             WE ARE UNITED

  (Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, there are very strong emotions 
throughout this House today. We are all horrified by this dreadful 
attack on our friends and colleagues, and those who serve and protect 
this Capitol.
  We are all praying for those who were attacked and for their 
families: Steve Scalise, Zachary Barth, Matt Mika, Special Agent David 
Bailey, Special Agent Crystal Griner.
  We are all giving our thoughts to those currently being treated for 
their injuries at this moment.
  And we are united. We are united in our shock. We are united in our 
anguish. An attack on one of us is an attack on all of us.
  I know we want to give our thanks to the first responders and to the 
Alexandria Police Department, who were on the scene in minutes. And I 
know this House wants to state, unequivocally, that we are, as ever, 
awed by the tremendous bravery of the Capitol Police.
  I spoke with Special Agent Bailey and Special Agent Griner this 
morning. One was being treated, and one was about to go into surgery. I 
expressed our profound gratitude to them. It is clear to me, based on 
various eyewitness accounts, that without these two heroes, Agent 
Bailey and Agent Griner, many lives would have been lost.

[[Page H4916]]

  I know that we all want to learn as much as we can about what 
happened. We just received a briefing from the Sergeant at Arms. I have 
complete confidence in the investigation that is being conducted by the 
Capitol Police and the FBI, who are also working with local law 
enforcement.
  I know we want to extend our gratitude for the outpouring of support 
we have received from throughout the Capitol and from around the 
country.
  And now, knowing Steve Scalise as we all do, he is likely really 
frustrated that he is not going to be able to play in the baseball 
game. I also know that Steve wants all of us to commend the bravery of 
those who came to the aid of the wounded. In the coming days, we will 
hear their stories, and we will have a chance to hold up their heroism.
  My colleagues, there are so many memories from this day that we will 
want to forget, and there are so many images that we will not want to 
see again. But there is one image in particular that this House should 
keep, and that is a photo I saw this morning of our Democratic 
colleagues gathered in prayer this morning after hearing the news.
  You know, every day we come here to test and to challenge each other. 
We feel so deeply about the things that we fight for and the things 
that we believe in. At times, our emotions can clearly get the best of 
us. We are all imperfect, but we do not shed our humanity when we enter 
this Chamber.
  For all the noise and all the fury, we are one family. These were our 
brothers and sisters in the line of fire. These were our brothers and 
sisters who ran into danger and saved countless lives.
  So before this House returns to its business, let's just slow down 
and reflect to think about how we are all being tested right now, 
because we are being tested right now.
  I ask each of you to join me to resolve to come together, to lift 
each other up, and to show the country, to show the world, that we are 
one House, the people's House, united in our humanity. It is that 
humanity which will win the day, and it always will.
  God bless.

                          ____________________



