

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3990]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 80TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF JUVENILE AND FAMILY COURT 
                                 JUDGES

  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President, today I am honored to congratulate 
the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges on 80 years of 
promoting justice for children and families.
  On May 22, 1937, the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court 
Judges, NCJFCJ, was established by judges who came together with a 
vision of strengthening the juvenile court system and providing 
support, sharing knowledge, and facilitating an exchange of ideas with 
their colleagues across the Nation. The NCJFCJ is the oldest judicial 
membership organization in the country and a leading provider of 
judicial education. The NCJFCJ believes judges are the leaders of the 
juvenile and family court system, and by engaging all stakeholders, 
better decisions are made with improved outcomes for children, 
families, and victims of domestic violence. I am so proud that they 
have made Reno, NV, their home.
  The NCJFCJ brings together a broad constituency of judicial officers, 
attorneys, advocates, court administrators, clerks of court, probation 
officers, child welfare professionals, and others with a common goal of 
ensuring the most effective juvenile and family court system. It 
addresses a wide range of complex issues impacting the well-being of 
children and families that encompass juvenile delinquency, domestic 
child sex trafficking, child abuse and neglect, child custody and 
visitation, substance abuse, domestic violence, trauma, mental health, 
and military issues. The NCJFCJ also leads development and 
implementation of policies and practices to ensure fair, equal, 
effective, and timely justice for children, families, and victims of 
domestic violence.
  For eight decades, the NCJFCJ has been known for the exemplary 
quality of its services, including advanced education, training, 
publications, technical assistance, research, data and statistics, and 
policy development to promote justice for children and families. 
Inspired by the leadership, experience, expertise, dedication, and 
passion of its members, the NCJFCJ is committed to another 80 years of 
efforts to meet the ever-evolving needs of our most vulnerable 
population: the children and families who seek justice.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing and honoring the 80 
years of achievements and tireless efforts of the National Council of 
Juvenile and Family Court Judges, its members and staff, past and 
present, to ensure a timely, fair, and coordinated justice system for 
children and families and safer communities across the country.

                          ____________________



