

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2488]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  RECOGNIZING MOUNTAIN HOME AIR FORCE BASE AND THE 366TH FIGHTER WING

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, my colleague Senator Jim Risch joins 
me today in honoring Mountain Home Air Force Base both on its 75-year 
anniversary and the 366th Fighter Wing of Mountain Home Air Force Base 
on its 50-year anniversary of being recognized as the ``Gunfighters.''
  According to historical accounts from Mountain Home Air Force Base, 
the 366th Fighter Wing's roots trace back much further than 50 years, 
all the way to the activation of the 366th Fighter Group in 1943. The 
fighter group participated in action over France, ground support in the 
Normandy invasion, air attacks near St. Lo, France, and attacks and 
reconnaissance in the Battle of the Bulge. Following World War II, the 
fighter group went through deactivations, reactivations, 
redesignations, and base reassignments before earning its nickname, the 
``Gunfighters,'' in the 1960s, for its weapons innovation and 
effectiveness in accomplishing its missions in Vietnam. The wing became 
renowned as the Gunfighters after it mounted Gatling gun pods on its 
aircraft wings to improve short-range capabilities in battling enemy 
aircraft over Vietnam. The Gunfighters' effectiveness was recognized 
with a Presidential unit citation. The tenacity and ingenuity at the 
heart of the wing and its earning its Gunfighters moniker is an 
attribute we celebrate today.
  While both the fighter wing and Mountain Home Air Force Base started 
taking shape in 1943, it was not until 1972 that the two combined when 
the then-366th Tactical Fighter Wing, later redesignated the 366th 
Fighter Wing, moved from Vietnam to its current location at Mountain 
Home Air Force Base. Mountain Home Air Force Base reports that the base 
first opened on August 7, 1943. The base has since been home to many of 
our Nation's outstanding servicemembers, including the men and women of 
the 366th Fighter Wing. From accommodating the training of crews for a 
variety of aircraft to supporting combat, covert, and special 
operations missions, the base has a long history of remarkable 
contributions to defending Americans and allies both at home and all 
around the world. As part of its more recent service, Mountain Home Air 
Force Base has provided personnel and equipment to support efforts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as throughout Southwest Asia.
  The approximately 3,500 military and civilian members and 4,300 
family members of the 366th Fighter Wing and Mountain Home Air Force 
Base have an extensive record of excellence. In 2015 and 2016, the 
366th Fighter Wing received the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award, 
adding to a long list of accomplishments of the men and women of 
Mountain Home Air Force Base. The families of the 366th Fighter Wing 
and Mountain Home Air Force Base represent a lasting tradition of 
distinction in meeting our Nation's call to service. As we celebrate 
the significant milestones of the Mountain Home Air Force Base and 
366th Fighter Wing, we also honor the exceptional dedication inherent 
in those who serve and the families who support their service.
  Congratulations, Gunfighters and all those who support Mountain Home 
Air Force Base, on your decades of achievements and extraordinary 
service.

                          ____________________



