

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3835]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   SENATE RESOLUTION 209--COMMEMORATING THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 
  SILICON VALLEY LEADERSHIP GROUP, THE PREEMINENT PUBLIC POLICY TRADE 
                     ASSOCIATION IN SILICON VALLEY

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Ms. Harris) submitted the following 
resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary:

                              S. Res. 209

       Whereas the Silicon Valley Leadership Group (referred to in 
     this preamble as the ``Leadership Group''), founded by David 
     Packard in 1978, advocates on behalf of Silicon Valley 
     employers in the interest of improving the economic health of 
     and quality of life in Silicon Valley;
       Whereas the Leadership Group represents nearly 400 member 
     companies that constitute 1 in 3 private sector jobs in 
     Silicon Valley;
       Whereas the Leadership Group was integral in establishing a 
     permanent regional office of the United States Patent and 
     Trademark Office in Silicon Valley, facilitating creativity, 
     innovation, and efficiency for local companies and creating 
     new economic and employment opportunities;
       Whereas the Leadership Group was a crucial partner in 
     promoting the restoration of the San Francisco Bay and 
     restoring wildlife habitat by reducing toxins and pollutants, 
     improving water quality, and protecting communities from 
     floods;
       Whereas the Leadership Group has been vital in the 
     development of transportation improvements, including helping 
     secure funding for the electrification of Caltrain, which 
     will replace diesel trains with high-performance electric 
     trains, nearly doubling ridership, reducing travel times, 
     cutting emissions, and creating 9,600 additional employment 
     opportunities across the United States; and
       Whereas the Leadership Group has supported and contributed 
     to organizations such as Second Harvest Food Bank, Housing 
     Trust Silicon Valley, Healthier Kids Foundation Santa Clara 
     County, Christmas in the Park in San Jose, and many other 
     organizations that help improve the quality of life in the 
     Silicon Valley region: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) recognizes the significant contributions of the Silicon 
     Valley Leadership Group and the members of the Silicon Valley 
     Leadership Group to the economic health of and quality of 
     life in Silicon Valley; and
       (2) commemorates the 40th anniversary of the Silicon Valley 
     Leadership Group.

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the 40th 
anniversary of the founding of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group.
  Founded by David Packard in 1978, the Leadership Group has worked 
tirelessly to improve the economic health and quality of life in 
Silicon Valley. I have had the pleasure of working closely with the 
Silicon Valley Leadership Group--and its Chief Executive Officer Carl 
Guardino--on many issues important to the San Francisco Bay Area.
  For instance, the Leadership Group has been an indispensable partner 
in efforts to restore the San Francisco Bay and its critical wetlands. 
Just last year, they helped secure $500 million for those restoration 
efforts. The Leadership Group was integral in establishing a permanent 
U.S. Patent and Trademark office in San Jose. That office now supports 
the creativity and innovation that made Silicon Valley the global 
leader of the digital revolution. Most recently, the Leadership Group 
was a driving force in developing transportation improvements in 
Silicon Valley--including the electrification of the Caltrain system 
that will cut travel times and improve air quality for countless 
Californians.
  Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
resolution to recognize the Silicon Valley Leadership Group and its 
contributions to Silicon Valley, the state of California and our 
national economy.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



