

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2894-H2897]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. HENSARLING (for himself, Mr. McHenry, Mr. 
             Huizenga, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Barr, Mrs. 
             Wagner, and Mr. Pearce):

[[Page H2895]]

  

       H.R. 10. A bill to create hope and opportunity for 
     investors, consumers, and entrepreneurs by ending bailouts 
     and Too Big to Fail, holding Washington and Wall Street 
     accountable, eliminating red tape to increase access to 
     capital and credit, and repealing the provisions of the Dodd-
     Frank Act that make America less prosperous, less stable, and 
     less free, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Agriculture, Ways and Means, the Judiciary, Oversight and 
     Government Reform, Transportation and Infrastructure, Rules, 
     the Budget, and Education and the Workforce, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Fleischmann, 
             Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Duncan 
             of Tennessee, Mr. DesJarlais, and Mrs. Black):
       H.R. 2146. A bill to amend the William Wilberforce 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 to 
     require the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide notice 
     to State authorities when unaccompanied alien children are 
     placed in that State; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COFFMAN:
       H.R. 2147. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice Outreach 
     Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
     involved veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PITTENGER (for himself and Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 2148. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Act to clarify capital requirements for certain acquisition, 
     development, or construction loans; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas:
       H.R. 2149. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require inclusion of the taxpayer's social security 
     number to claim the refundable portion of the child tax 
     credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Larsen 
             of Washington, and Mr. Ferguson):
       H.R. 2150. A bill to ensure that permits issued by the 
     Secretary of Transportation to foreign air carriers under the 
     United States-European Union Air Transport Agreement of April 
     2007 do not undermine labor rights or standards, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. Lowenthal, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Ms. Norton, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. Engel, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Titus, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Deutch, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 2151. A bill to prevent harassment at institutions of 
     higher education, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Walberg):
       H.R. 2152. A bill to require States and units of local 
     government receiving funds under grant programs operated by 
     the Department of Justice, which use such funds for pretrial 
     services programs, to submit to the Attorney General a report 
     relating to such program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Cooper, 
             and Mr. Loebsack):
       H.R. 2153. A bill to hold the salaries of Members of a 
     House of Congress in escrow if the House of Congress does not 
     agree to a budget resolution or pass regular appropriation 
     bills on a timely basis during a Congress, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. CRAMER:
       H.R. 2154. A bill to rename the Red River Valley 
     Agricultural Research Center in Fargo, North Dakota, as the 
     Edward T. Schafer Agricultural Research Center; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 2155. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to authorize funds to 
     identify and eliminate excessive occupational licensure; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H.R. 2156. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     national memorial and national monument to commemorate those 
     killed by the collapse of the Saint Francis Dam on March 12, 
     1928, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. McKinley, 
             Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Palmer, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Westerman, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Labrador, Mr. 
             Burgess, Mr. Scalise, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. 
             Wittman, and Mr. Babin):
       H.R. 2157. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf 
     Lands Act to limit the authority of the President to withdraw 
     areas from oil and gas leasing, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. Pallone, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Norton, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Keating, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Langevin, 
             Mr. Sanford, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Raskin, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, and Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina):
       H.R. 2158. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf 
     Lands Act to prohibit oil-, gas-, and methane hydrate-related 
     seismic activities in the North Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic, South 
     Atlantic, and Straits of Florida planning areas of the outer 
     Continental Shelf, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Slaughter, and Ms. Clark of Massachusetts):
       H.R. 2159. A bill to reduce the deficit by imposing a 
     minimum effective tax rate for high-income taxpayers; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CRIST:
       H.R. 2160. A bill to improve the safety of school buses, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Education and the Workforce, and Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 2161. A bill to adjust the immigration status of 
     certain Venezuelan nationals who are in the United States; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
       H.R. 2162. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for automatic continuing resolutions; to the 
     Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Ms. Slaughter, and Ms. 
             DeLauro):
       H.R. 2163. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to require physicians and physician's offices to 
     be treated as covered device users required to report on 
     certain adverse events involving medical devices, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Ms. Slaughter, and Ms. 
             DeLauro):
       H.R. 2164. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act with respect to liability under State and local 
     requirements respecting devices; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2165. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     direct the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
     Administration (TSA) to make certain improvements in managing 
     TSA employee conduct, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Cole, and 
             Mr. Wittman):
       H.R. 2166. A bill to amend title 37, United States Code, to 
     provide for the continuance of pay and allowances for members 
     of the Armed Forces, including reserve components thereof, 
     during lapses in appropriations; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr. LaMalfa, and Mr. 
             Gosar):
       H.R. 2167. A bill to provide for no net increase in the 
     total acreage of certain Federal land under the jurisdiction 
     of the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, 
     the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, or the Forest 
     Service, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Norton, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Weber of Texas, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Johnson of 
             Ohio, Mr. Beyer, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Chabot, and Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina):
       H.R. 2168. A bill to waive the passport fees for first 
     responders proceeding abroad to aid a foreign country 
     suffering from a natural disaster; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and Mr. 
             Keating):
       H.R. 2169. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to enhance information sharing in the Department of 
     Homeland Security State, Local, and Regional Fusion

[[Page H2896]]

     Center Initiative, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. LaMALFA (for himself, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Comer, Mr. Cook, Mr. Costa, Mr. Denham, 
             Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Knight, Ms. Matsui, Mr. 
             McClintock, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Rohrabacher, 
             Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Valadao, and 
             Mrs. Mimi Walters of California):
       H.R. 2170. A bill to amend the National Flood Insurance Act 
     of 1968 to allow the repair, expansion, and construction, 
     without elevation, of agricultural structures located in 
     special flood hazard zones, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia (for himself, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, and Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 2171. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reduce taxpayer burdens and enhance taxpayer 
     protections, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mrs. LOVE:
       H.R. 2172. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     remove the mandate on the Board of Governors of the Federal 
     Reserve System and the Federal Open Market Committee to focus 
     on maximum employment; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Mr. Poe of Texas, and Mr. 
             Himes):
       H.R. 2173. A bill to improve passenger vessel security and 
     safety, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Mr. Barton, Mr. 
             Bishop of Utah, Mr. Buck, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Cramer, 
             Mr. Emmer, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Flores, Mr. Jordan, 
             Mr. McClintock, Mr. Messer, Mr. Olson, Mr. Palmer, 
             Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Stewart, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Walker, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Blum, 
             Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Smith of 
             Missouri, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Loudermilk, and Mr. Hudson):
       H.R. 2174. A bill to provide for a reauthorizing schedule 
     for unauthorized Federal programs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Rules, and the Budget, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Mr. Gallego, 
             Mr. Moulton, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Mr. Castro of Texas, and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 2175. A bill to direct the Director of National 
     Intelligence to establish an integration cell to monitor and 
     enforce United Nations Security Council resolutions with 
     respect to North Korea, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select).
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Gallego, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Bordallo, and Mr. 
             Castro of Texas):
       H.R. 2176. A bill to authorize the establishment of an 
     Asia-Pacific Defense Commission to enhance defense 
     cooperation between the United States and allies in the Asia-
     Pacific region, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 2177. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     change the residency requirements for certain officials 
     serving in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 2178. A bill to provide for the compensation of 
     Federal contractor employees that may be placed on unpaid 
     leave as a result of the Federal Government shutdown, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ROUZER:
       H.R. 2179. A bill to require certain welfare programs to 
     deny benefits to persons who fail a drug test, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Agriculture, and Financial Services, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. Norton, Ms. DelBene, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Foster, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Takano, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Meng, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Heck, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             DeGette, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Moore, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Bera, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Larsen of Washington, 
             Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Himes, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. 
             Lee, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Titus, Mr. Peters, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Matsui, and Mr. Swalwell of 
             California):
       H.R. 2180. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     ensure that women members of the Armed Forces and their 
     families have access to the contraception they need in order 
     to promote the health and readiness of all members of the 
     Armed Forces, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Paulsen, and Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 2181. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to permit the consolidation of life insurance companies 
     with other companies; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
             Langevin, and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 2182. A bill to require the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to submit a report to Congress on the 
     alternatives for the final disposition of Plum Island, 
     including preservation of the island for conservation, 
     education, and research, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H.J. Res. 99. A joint resolution making further continuing 
     appropriations for fiscal year 2017, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself and Ms. Meng):
       H. Res. 279. A resolution recognizing Israeli-American 
     heritage and the contributions of the Israeli-American 
     community to the United States; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Bishop 
             of Georgia, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mrs. Love, Mr. Walker, Mr. Russell, Ms. 
             Bass, and Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois):
       H. Res. 281. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of April 2017 as ``Second Chance Month``; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DENT (for himself, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Joyce of 
             Ohio, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, and Mr. Cooper):
       H. Res. 282. A resolution supporting State, local, and 
     community initiatives to encourage parents, teachers, camp 
     counselors, and childcare professionals to take measures to 
     prevent sunburns in the minors they care for, and expressing 
     the sense of the House of Representatives that State, local, 
     and community entities should continue to support efforts to 
     curb the incidences of skin cancer beginning with childhood 
     skin protection; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H. Res. 283. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that congressional redistricting should be 
     reformed to remove political gerrymandering; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McEACHIN (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Pallone, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. Huffman, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Clay, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Evans, 
             Ms. Fudge, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Velazquez, and Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida):
       H. Res. 284. A resolution expressing support for honoring 
     Earth Day, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. 
             Reichert, and Mr. Pascrell):
       H. Res. 285. A resolution expressing the sense of the 
     United States House of Representatives that Congress and the 
     President should empower the creation of police and community 
     alliances designed to enhance

[[Page H2897]]

     and improve communication and collaboration between members 
     of the law enforcement community and the public they serve; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



