

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5205-H5206]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1415
                     ROBERT EMMET PARK ACT OF 2017

  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 1500) to redesignate the small triangular property located in 
Washington, DC, and designated by the National Park Service as 
reservation 302 as ``Robert Emmet Park'', and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1500

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Robert Emmet Park Act of 
     2017''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds as follows:
       (1) Robert Emmet was one of Ireland's most prominent 
     historical figures, having led an effort to secure Irish 
     independence in 1803.
       (2) Although Emmet's efforts initially failed, they 
     succeeded in inspiring new generations of Irish men and women 
     to struggle for independence.
       (3) For his efforts to gain Irish independence, Emmet was 
     found guilty of treason and sentenced to death by hanging.
       (4) Robert Emmet's ``Speech from the Dock'' motivated many 
     of the efforts that led to an independent Ireland following 
     1916's Easter Rising; (Emmet famously said that ``To 
     [Ireland] I sacrificed every selfish, every lasting sentiment 
     . . . I wished to place her independence beyond the reach of 
     any power of earth . . . to procure for my country the 
     guarantee which Washington procured for America . . . to 
     exalt her to that proud station in the world.''). Emmet was 
     strongly influenced by American democracy and the American 
     Revolution.
       (5) Emmet had family members similarly admiring of the 
     United States and dedicated to the cause of Irish 
     independence, including his brother Thomas Addis Emmet who 
     went on to become a prominent Attorney General of New York.
       (6) Emmet has been revered by generations of Irish-
     Americans for his leadership, courage, and sacrifice.
       (7) Fifty years ago on April 22, 1966, the Robert Emmet 
     Statue was dedicated on a small parcel of National Park 
     Service land (reservation 302) at the corner of 24th Street 
     NW and Massachusetts Avenue NW in Washington, DC.
       (8) Robert Emmet's statue is the central feature of 
     reservation 302.
       (9) Many leading Members of Congress, including Speaker of 
     the House John W. McCormack and Senators Everett Dirksen and 
     Mike Mansfield served on the Robert Emmet Statue Dedication 
     Committee.
       (10) Other members of that committee and participants in 
     the dedication ceremony included Secretary of the Interior 
     Stewart Udall, Representative Michael Kirwan, Ambassador of 
     Ireland William P. Fay, and Rector of St. Matthews Cathedral 
     John K. Cartwright.

     SEC. 3. REDESIGNATION OF ROBERT EMMET PARK.

       (a) Redesignation.--The small triangular property 
     designated by the National Park Service as reservation 302, 
     shall be known as ``Robert Emmet Park''.
       (b) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, 
     document, record, map, paper, or other record of the United 
     States to the property referred to in subsection (a) is 
     deemed to be a reference to ``Robert Emmet Park''.
       (c) Signage.--The Secretary of the Interior may post signs 
     on or near Robert Emmet Park that include one or more of the 
     following:
       (1) Information on Robert Emmet, his contribution to Irish 
     Independence, and his respect for the United States and the 
     American Revolution.
       (2) Information on the history of the statue of Robert 
     Emmet located in Robert Emmet Park.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Cook) and the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Beyer) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1500, offered by our colleague, Representative 
Joseph Crowley of New York, renames a small triangular property owned 
by the National Park Service in Washington, D.C., as Robert Emmet Park.
  Robert Emmet, sometimes referred to as the George Washington of 
Ireland, was a prominent historical figure known for his role in the 
Irish rebellion of 1803 and for his classic ``Speech from the Dock'' 
that inspired future efforts to gain Irish independence.
  The small National Park Service reservation that is redesignated by 
this bill includes a statue of Robert Emmet, originally cast in 1916 by 
Irish-American artist Jerome Connor. In April of last year, the statue 
was rededicated at a ceremony that also jointly marked the centennial 
of the 1916 Easter Rising. The statue and park, located just a few 
blocks from the Irish Embassy, are a source of pride to the Irish 
community.
  I wish to thank Representative Crowley for his sponsorship of this 
bill, and also Mr. Jack O'Brien of the Ancient Order of Hibernians for 
his tireless work in support of this legislation and his lifelong 
dedication to Irish cultural projects.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the measure, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, as my friend, Mr. Cook, just pointed out, H.R. 1500 
designates a small triangle of land in Washington, D.C., as Robert 
Emmet Park. The parcel is home to a statue of Robert Emmet, a seminal 
figure in Ireland's quest for independence. The bill also authorizes 
the National Park Service, which manages the area, to add interpretive 
displays and signage to the area.
  Emmet admired the independence we achieved in this country and only 
wanted the same freedom and liberty for his compatriots in Ireland. 
Designating this small plot of land and the accompanying statue as 
Robert Emmet Park will stand as a constant reminder of the call to 
liberty and freedom that binds our Nation together.
  I would like to thank my friend, Representative Crowley from New York 
City, who is also a proud son of St. Patrick, for his work on this 
bill, and I urge its swift passage.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the distinguished 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Crowley).
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia for 
yielding me this time.
  I also want to thank the chairman and the ranking member of the 
Natural Resources Committee here in the House of Representatives for 
moving this bill and helping to put this bill on the floor today in a 
bipartisan spirit. I would also like to acknowledge the majority and 
minority staff who have been very helpful to my office in this effort.
  True, this is not the first time this measure has been considered. It 
passed the House during the last Congress, but the session ended before 
it could be moved forward in the Senate and into law. It was then, as 
it is now, a bipartisan bill. I would like to acknowledge all of the 
Members who are cosponsors. In substance, the bill would, as has been 
said, name a small parcel of the land in Washington, D.C., as Robert 
Emmet Park.
  Emmet was honored by the United States over 100 years ago when a 
statue of his likeness was donated to the Smithsonian Institution. That 
statue was welcomed by no less than President Woodrow Wilson himself.
  After 50 years, the museum moved the statue to the land where it 
rests now, an unnamed parcel of land. The rededication committee 
counted many key leaders, including then-Speaker of the House John 
McCormack, Senator Everett Dirksen, and Senator Mike Mansfield. Even 
President Lyndon Johnson conveyed his pride in Emmet, stating: ``We 
Americans are proud to accord a place of honor here in the Nation's 
Capital to Robert Emmet, whose struggles and sacrifices bespeak the 
yearnings of mankind throughout the ages.''

[[Page H5206]]

  So it is clear that, on a bipartisan basis, Congress has long 
recognized the significance of this statue and its role in keeping 
alive not only the memory of Robert Emmet, but the ideals for which he 
stood.
  At present, the statue of Emmet is the only statue on this small 
piece of land. This bill would take the next logical step by naming the 
land for Emmet. It is a fitting tribute since, for generations, many 
American schoolchildren learned the words of Emmet's famous speech, 
which became known as the ``Speech from the Dock.''
  I often wonder what Abraham Lincoln was taught as a boy. We all 
learned the Gettysburg Address, but, in fact, Abraham Lincoln could 
recite the ``Speech from the Dock'' by memory. It couldn't have been an 
easy speech for Emmet to give when one considers that he was expected 
to be executed after giving that speech.
  Emmet had been an Irish independence leader who was deeply influenced 
by George Washington and the struggle for American independence. He was 
inspired by the American fight for democracy and self-determination. 
But after a failed effort to achieve independence, he was captured by 
the British, as were many others over centuries of struggle.
  In his speech, Emmet said:

       Let no man write my epitaph; for as no man who knows my 
     motives dare now vindicate them, let not prejudice or 
     ignorance asperse them. Let them and me rest in obscurity and 
     peace, and my tomb remain uninscribed, and my memory in 
     oblivion, until other times and other men can do justice to 
     my character. When my country takes her place among the 
     nations of the Earth, then, and not till then, let my 
     epitaph be written.

  Shortly after giving that speech on September 20, 1803, Robert Emmet 
was hanged, drawn, and quartered. But Emmet's words lived on. In fact, 
groups named the Emmet Monument Association were founded in the United 
States. Their stated purpose was to build a burial monument to Emmet, 
one that would, of course, include an epitaph.
  But because Emmet called for Ireland to be free before his epitaph 
was written, these groups were actually Fenian freedom organizations. 
They and other American groups were quite active in the United States 
for many years all across our Nation. They came before subsequent 
American roles in the struggle for Irish independence, and their 
presence played a major role in American political life for many 
decades.
  So I respectfully urge the passage of this bill. It does not require 
spending funds, and it does not alter the park or the park system. It 
would basically include the name Robert Emmet Park to a small piece of 
land where the Emmet statue rests.
  Many Americans, as well as our government, have long recognized the 
significance of the park and statue in keeping alive not just the 
history of Robert Emmet, but what he stood for. I am glad that 
continues today.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to once again thank the majority and the 
minority members of the Natural Resources Committee as well as their 
staffs. Their support made it possible for this measure to once again 
be on the floor today.
  I would like to thank the hardworking staffs of the Smithsonian 
Institution and the National Park Service who have taken care of the 
Emmet statue and park for these many, many years.
  Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Cook) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1500.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



