

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3095-S3096]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE

                                 ______
                                 

   BUDGET OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018--PM 8

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with accompanying 
reports and papers; which was referred jointly, pursuant to the order 
of January 30, 1975, as modified by the order of April 11, 1986; to the 
Committees on the Budget; and Appropriations:

To the Congress of the United States:
  On February 28, I spoke to a joint session of the Congress about what 
we need to do to begin a new chapter of American Greatness. I asked the 
Nation to look forward nine years and imagine the wonders we could 
achieve by America's 250th anniversary of our Independence if we set 
free the dreams of our people by removing the barriers holding back our 
economic growth.
  This Budget's defining ambition is to unleash the dreams of the 
American people. This requires laying a new foundation for American 
Greatness.
  Through streamlined Government, we will drive an economic boom that 
raises incomes and expands job opportunities for all Americans. Faster 
economic growth, coupled with fiscal restraint, will enable us to fully 
fund our national priorities, balance our budget, and start to pay down 
our national debt.
  Our moral commitment to replacing our current economic stagnation 
with faster economic growth rests on the following eight pillars of 
reform:
  Health Reform. We need to enable Americans to buy the healthcare they 
need at a price they can afford. To this end, we must repeal Obamacare 
and its burdensome regulations and mandates, and replace it with a 
framework that restores choice and competition. This will lower the 
cost of care so that more Americans can get the medical attention they 
need. Additionally, Medicaid, which inadequately serves enrollees and 
taxpayers, must be reformed to allow States to manage their own 
programs, with continued financial support from the Federal Government.
  Tax Reform and Simplification. We must reduce the tax burden on 
American workers and businesses, so that we can maximize incomes and 
economic growth. We must also simplify our tax system, so that 
individuals and businesses do not waste countless hours and resources 
simply paying their taxes.
  Immigration Reform. We must reform immigration policy so that it 
serves our national interest. We will adopt commonsense proposals that 
protect American workers, reduce burdens on taxpayers and public 
resources, and focus Federal funds on underserved and disadvantaged 
citizens.
  Reductions in Federal Spending. We must scrutinize every dollar the 
Federal Government spends. Just as families decide how to manage 
limited budgets, we must ensure the Federal Government spends precious 
taxpayer dollars only on our highest national priorities, and always in 
the most efficient, effective manner.
  Regulatory Rollback. We must eliminate every outdated, unnecessary, 
or ineffective Federal regulation, and move aggressively to build 
regulatory frameworks that stimulate--rather than stagnate--job 
creation. Even for those regulations we must leave in place, we must 
strike every provision that is counterproductive, ineffective, or 
outdated.
  American Energy Development. We must increase development of 
America's energy resources, strengthening our national security, 
lowering the price of electricity and transportation fuels, and driving 
down the cost of consumer goods so that every American individual and 
business has more money to save and invest. A consistent, long-term 
supply of lower-cost American energy brings with it a much larger 
economy, more jobs, and greater security for the American people.
  Welfare Reform. We must reform our welfare system so that it does not 
discourage able-bodied adults from working, which takes away scarce 
resources from those in real need. Work must be the center of our 
social policy.
  Education Reform. We need to return decisions regarding education 
back to the State and local levels, while advancing opportunities for 
parents and students to choose, from all available options, the school 
that best fits their needs to learn and succeed.
  To unleash the power of American work and creativity--and drive 
opportunity and faster economic growth--we must reprioritize Federal 
spending so that it advances the safety and security of the American 
people.
  This Budget, therefore, includes $639 billion for the Department of 
Defense--a $52 billion increase from the 2017 annualized continuing 
resolution level. This increase will be offset by targeted reductions 
elsewhere. This defense funding is vital to rebuilding, modernizing, 
and preparing our Armed Forces for the future so that our military 
remains the world's preeminent fighting force and we can continue to 
ensure peace through strength. This Budget also increases funding to 
take care of our great veterans, who have served their country with 
such honor and distinction.
  The Budget also meets the need to materially increase funding for 
border security, immigration enforcement, and law enforcement at the 
Departments of Homeland Security and Justice. These funding increases 
will provide additional resources for a southern border wall, expanded 
detention capacity, and initiatives to reduce violent crime, as well as 
more immigration judges, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
officers, and Border Patrol agents. The Budget also invests significant 
resources in efforts to combat opioid abuse.
  In these dangerous times, our increased attention to public safety 
and national security sends a clear message to the world--a message of 
American strength and resolve. It follows through on my promise to 
focus on keeping Americans safe, keeping terrorists out of our Nation, 
and putting violent offenders behind bars.
  As this Budget returns us to economic prosperity, it will also allow 
us to fund additional priorities, including infrastructure, student 
loan reform, and initiatives to help working families such as paid 
parental leave. We will champion the hardworking taxpayers who have 
been ignored for too long. Once we end our economic stagnation and 
return to robust growth, so many of our aspirations will be within 
reach.
  It is now up to the Congress to act. I pledge my full cooperation in 
ending the economic malaise that has, for too long, crippled the dreams 
of our people. The time for small thinking is over. As we look forward 
to our 250th year, I am calling upon all Members of Congress to join me 
in striving to do big and bold and daring things for our Nation.

[[Page S3096]]

We have it in our power to set free the dreams of our people. Let us 
begin.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, May 23, 2017.

                          ____________________



