

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2927]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    PRESIDENT TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, the last four elections have defined one 
of the most dramatic political realignments in our country's history.
  In these elections, we have seen a net shift of 64 U.S. House seats, 
12 U.S. Senate seats, 10 Governors, 919 State legislative seats, and 
the Presidency shift from Democrat to Republican.
  This happened in large part on three overarching mandates from the 
American people: revive the economy, secure our borders, and restore 
our healthcare system. If President Trump can accomplish these three 
objectives, his administration and this Congress will be remembered as 
one of the most successful and beneficial in our Nation's history.
  In working toward these goals, President Trump has faced the most 
bitter, virulent, and partisan opposition that any President has 
endured since the election of 1860.
  We have seen the radical left in full display across our Nation with 
its appalling incivility, its intolerance of other points of view, and 
its disrespect of our democratic process and constitutional 
institutions. Sadly, this opposition now permeates much of our press 
and academia.
  Yet, despite these obstacles, as we mark the first 100 days of this 
Presidency, there is ample reason to celebrate the new direction that 
President Trump and this Congress have taken and the progress that we 
have made.
  Our overarching mandate is to revive our economy and restore 
prosperity to millions of struggling American families who have 
suffered the most disappointing decade in more than 80 years, buried 
under an avalanche of Obama-era regulations and taxes.
  American workers finally have an advocate in the Oval Office. This 
President has signed more legislation in his first 100 days than any 
President since Harry Truman. And many of these bills, as well as his 
executive orders, have begun repealing the heavy regulations that have 
been sinking our economy.
  One study estimates these actions have already relieved our economy 
of $68 billion of destructive regulations. That comes to about $500 for 
every family in America.
  The Keystone pipeline alone will produce thousands of construction 
jobs, billions of dollars of private investment, and, when completed, 
830,000 barrels of Canadian crude oil entering American markets every 
day.
  And what has happened?
  Well, consumer confidence is up 3 points since the election. The S&P 
is up 11 percent, the NASDAQ is up more than 15 percent, and the Dow is 
up 13 percent. 317,000 more Americans are working today than on the day 
the President took the oath of office, unemployment has dropped three-
tenths of a point, and the labor participation rate has started to inch 
upward once again.
  It is not yet ``morning again in America,'' but the first faint 
shades of light are appearing on our economic horizon.
  The second great mandate was to secure the borders after many years, 
when millions of illegal immigrants made a mockery of our Nation's 
sovereignty and our rule of law. Wages for working Americans stagnated, 
jobs dried up, and social services have strained as a result.
  Well, finally, we have a President who takes the Nation's security 
and the sovereignty of our borders seriously. Renewed enforcement has, 
by all accounts, boosted morale of our immigration agencies 
dramatically, and criminal aliens are finally being deported--already 
showing a 32 percent increase in deportations compared to the last 
administration. Because of this new resoluteness, illegal border 
crossings have plunged by some 60 percent.

                              {time}  1600

  Now, healthcare reform is the third of the mandates. That requires 
congressional action, and here is where Congress has let him down. But 
as we approach the 100th day of the administration, it appears 
legislation will soon begin moving to the Senate, and, before long, the 
collapsing, one-size-fits-all bureaucracy of ObamaCare will give way to 
a healthy and vibrant healthcare market where Americans will have the 
widest possible range of choices to meet their own needs with the 
supported tax system to ensure that these plans are within the 
financial reach of every American.
  Ultimately, though, the success of this administration will not be 
measured by 100 days or by talking points from politicians. It will be 
measured by a simple question that every American will answer for 
himself or herself: Am I better off today? As we approach this first 
checkpoint in the course of this administration, there is strong reason 
to believe the answer to that question will be a decisive yes.
  This is a period of great change, and great change brings great 
controversy. But I believe that this President and our Nation can take 
increasing confidence from these first 100 days and can take great 
strength in knowing that a day is fast approaching when we will awaken 
and realize it is, indeed, morning again in America.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



