

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3096-S3097]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF COMMITTEES

  The following executive reports of nominations were submitted:

       By Mr. McCAIN for the Committee on Armed Services.
       *David L. Norquist, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of 
     Defense (Comptroller).
       *Elaine McCusker, of Virginia, to be a Principal Deputy 
     Under Secretary of Defense.
       *Kari A. Bingen, of Virginia, to be a Principal Deputy 
     Under Secretary of Defense.
       *Robert Daigle, of Virginia, to be Director of Cost 
     Assessment and Program Evaluation, Department of Defense.
       *Robert Story Karem, of the District of Columbia, to be an 
     Assistant Secretary of Defense.
       *Kenneth P. Rapuano, of Virginia, to be an Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense.
       Air Force nomination of Brig. Gen. Sean L. Murphy, to be 
     Major General.
       Navy nominations beginning with Capt. John A. Okon and 
     ending with Capt. Michael W. Studeman, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on March 21, 2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Capt. Edward L. Anderson 
     and ending with Capt. James P. Waters III, which nominations 
     were received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on March 21, 2017. (minus 1 nominee: Capt. Peter G. 
     Vasely)
       Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Bradford J. Shwedo, to be 
     Lieutenant General.
       Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Giovanni K. Tuck, to be 
     Lieutenant General.
       Army nomination of Lt. Gen. James C. McConville, to be 
     General.
       Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Stuart W. Risch, to be Major 
     General.
       Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Thomas C. Seamands, to be 
     Lieutenant General.
       Army nomination of Col. Mark E. Black, to be Brigadier 
     General.
       Army nomination of Col. Matthew V. Baker, to be Brigadier 
     General.
       Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Chris R. Gentry, to be Major 
     General.
       Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Robert A. Karmazin, to be 
     Major General.
       Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Marion Garcia, to be Major 
     General.
       Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Joseph E. Whitlock, to be 
     Major General.
       Army nomination of Col. Miguel A. Castellanos, to be 
     Brigadier General.
       Army nomination of Col. Windsor S. Buzza, to be Brigadier 
     General.
       Army nomination of Col. Randall V. Simmons, Jr., to be 
     Brigadier General.
       Army nomination of Col. Michael D. Wickman, to be Brigadier 
     General.

[[Page S3097]]

       Army nominations beginning with Brig. Gen. Carl A. Alex and 
     ending with Brig. Gen. Brian E. Winski, which nominations 
     were received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on April 24, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Col. Susan K. Arnold and 
     ending with Col. Robert P. Huston, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on May 8, 2017.
       Army nomination of Col. Richard J. Lebel, to be Brigadier 
     General.
       Army nomination of Col. Todd W. Lewis, to be Brigadier 
     General.
       Army nominations beginning with Col. George N. Appenzeller 
     and ending with Col. Telita Crosland, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on May 8, 2017.
       Marine Corps nomination of Maj. Gen. Steven R. Rudder, to 
     be Lieutenant General.
       Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Laura J. Richardson, to be 
     Lieutenant General.
       Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Charles N. Pede, to be 
     Lieutenant General.
       Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Phillip G. Sawyer, to be Vice 
     Admiral.
       Marine Corps nomination of Maj. Gen. Brian D. Beaudreault, 
     to be Lieutenant General.

  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Armed Services I 
report favorably the following nomination lists which were printed in 
the Records on the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save 
the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar that these 
nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of 
Senators.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

       Air Force nomination of James E. Thompson, to be Colonel.
       Air Force nomination of Johanna K. Ream, to be Major.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Paul R. Aguirre and 
     ending with Peter Lawrence Zalewski, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on May 10, 2017.
       Army nomination of Kalie K. Rott, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Norma A. Hill, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Frank C. Pescatello, Jr., to be 
     Lieutenant Colonel.
       Army nomination of Basim M. Younis, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Stanley F. Gould, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Scott W. Fisher, to be Major.
       Army nominations beginning with Gary L. Beaty and ending 
     with Michael A. M. Wilson, which nominations were received by 
     the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on April 
     24, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Daniel J. Convey and ending 
     with Philip A. Horton, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on April 24, 
     2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Sophia Dalce and ending 
     with Burke Lenz, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on April 24, 
     2017.
       Army nomination of Dawn E. Elliott, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of D012528, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
       Army nomination of Benjamin W. Hillner, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Celina S. Pargo, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Paul R. Ambrose, to be Major.
       Army nominations beginning with James L. Dungca and ending 
     with Nathan S. Lanham, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on April 24, 
     2017.
       Army nomination of Charles R. Burnett, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Pablo F. Diaz, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
       Army nomination of Craig A. Nazareth, to be Lieutenant 
     Colonel.
       Army nomination of Brian C. McLean, to be Lieutenant 
     Colonel.
       Army nomination of Raymond C. Casteline, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Daniel J. Shank, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Christopher W. Degn, to be Lieutenant 
     Colonel.
       Army nomination of Jason T. Kidder, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Tito M. Villanueva, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Philip J. Dacunto, to be Lieutenant 
     Colonel.
       Army nomination of Stephen R. November, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Luisa Santiago, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Robert J. Bonner, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Mohamad El Samad, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Lana J. Bernat, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Patrick K. Sullivan, to be Lieutenant 
     Colonel.
       Army nominations beginning with Derek L. Adams and ending 
     with James M. Yates, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on May 10, 
     2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Rodney Abrams and ending 
     with D010081, which nominations were received by the Senate 
     and appeared in the Congressional Record on May 10, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Christine N. Adams and 
     ending with Charlette K. Woodard, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on May 10, 2017.
       Marine Corps nominations beginning with Mark S. Jimison and 
     ending with Shawn P. Wonderlich, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on March 27, 2017.
       Marine Corps nomination of Jason G. Lacis, to be Lieutenant 
     Colonel.
       Marine Corps nomination of Kevin J. Goodwin, to be 
     Lieutenant Colonel.
       Marine Corps nomination of Javier E. Vega, to be Lieutenant 
     Colonel.
       Marine Corps nomination of Sergio L. Sandoval, to be Major.
       Marine Corps nomination of Michael S. Stevens, to be Major.
       Marine Corps nomination of Patrick J. Mullen, to be Major.
       Marine Corps nominations beginning with Raymond L. Adams 
     and ending with Douglas S. Woodhams, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on May 10, 2017.
       Navy nomination of Susan M. McGarvey, to be Captain.
       Navy nomination of Sheila I. Almendras-Flaherty, to be 
     Commander.
       Navy nomination of Adrian D. Ragland, to be Captain.
       Navy nomination of Christopher R. Desena, to be Captain.
       Navy nomination of Kenneth L. Demick, Jr., to be Captain.
       Navy nomination of Michael C. Bratley, to be Captain.
       Navy nomination of Evan M. Colbert, to be Commander.
       Navy nomination of Luciana Sung, to be Captain.
       Navy nomination of William A. Schultz, to be Captain.
       Navy nomination of William L. McCoy, to be Lieutenant 
     Commander.
       Navy nomination of Chris F. White, to be Captain.
       Navy nomination of Karl M. Kingry, to be Lieutenant 
     Commander.
       Navy nomination of Michael A. Polito, to be Commander.
       Navy nomination of Raymond J. Carlson, Jr., to be 
     Lieutenant Commander.
       Navy nomination of Christopher M. Allen, to be Lieutenant 
     Commander.
       Navy nomination of Aaron L. Witherspoon, to be Lieutenant 
     Commander.
       Navy nomination of John E. Fritz, to be Captain.
       By Mr. CRAPO for the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
       *Sigal Mandelker, of New York, to be Under Secretary for 
     Terrorism and Financial Crimes.
       *Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be an Assistant 
     Secretary of the Treasury.
       *Mira Radielovic Ricardel, of California, to be Under 
     Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration.
       *Marshall Billingslea, of Virginia, to be Assistant 
     Secretary for Terrorist Financing, Department of the 
     Treasury.

  * Nomination was reported with recommendation that it be confirmed 
subject to the nominee's commitment to respond to requests to appear 
and testify before any duly constituted committee of the Senate.
  (Nominations without an asterisk were reported with the 
recommendation that they be confirmed.)

                          ____________________



