

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4991-H4993]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Tipton, 
             Mr. Labrador, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Peterson, and Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers):
       H.R. 2936. A bill to expedite under the National 
     Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and improve forest 
     management activities on National Forest System lands, on 
     public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
     Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to 
     overgrown, fire-prone forested lands, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Natural Resources, Education and the Workforce, 
     and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LaHOOD:
       H.R. 2937. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to authorize partnerships between 
     States and nongovernmental entities for the purpose of 
     reclaiming and restoring land and water resources adversely 
     affected by coal mining activities before August 3, 1977, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. MacArthur, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, 
             Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania,

[[Page H4992]]

             Mr. Norcross, Mr. Foster, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Knight, Ms. Tenney, 
             Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Shea-Porter, and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 2938. A bill to amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social 
     Security Act to remove barriers to access to residential 
     substance use disorder treatment services under Medicaid and 
     the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP); to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. TIPTON (for himself, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             McClintock, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Amodei, Mrs. Love, Mr. 
             Schweikert, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Simpson, and Mr. 
             Westerman):
       H.R. 2939. A bill to prohibit the conditioning of any 
     permit, lease, or other use agreement on the transfer of any 
     water right to the United States by the Secretaries of the 
     Interior and Agriculture, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama:
       H.R. 2940. A bill to allow Members of Congress to carry a 
     concealed firearm anywhere in the United States, with certain 
     exceptions; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ABRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Higgins 
             of Louisiana, Mr. Johnson of Louisiana, and Mr. 
             Graves of Louisiana):
       H.R. 2941. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     National Forest System land within Kisatchie National Forest 
     in the State of Louisiana; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Takano, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms. Pingree, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Ms. Speier, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Lee, Mr. Nadler, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Rush, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Cartwright, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Payne, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Courtney, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. Adams, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Meng, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Matsui, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Gutierrez, and Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 2942. A bill to permit employees to request changes to 
     their work schedules without fear of retaliation and to 
     ensure that employers consider these requests, and to require 
     employers to provide more predictable and stable schedules 
     for employees in certain occupations with evidence of 
     unpredictable and unstable scheduling practices that 
     negatively affect employees, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on House Administration, Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN (for herself, Mr. Turner, Mr. Donovan, 
             Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. Norton, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Ms. 
             Meng, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Lee, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Plaskett, 
             Mr. Raskin, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Bacon, and Mr. Pocan):
       H.R. 2943. A bill to provide grants for projects to acquire 
     land and water for parks and other outdoor recreation 
     purposes and to develop new or renovate existing outdoor 
     recreation facilities; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Matsui, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Sires, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Speier, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Welch, Mr. Vela, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Dingell, Mrs. Torres, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Panetta, Ms. McCollum, and 
             Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 2944. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for in-State tuition rates for refugees and 
     asylees; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia:
       H.R. 2945. A bill to grant Members of Congress the right to 
     carry a firearm anywhere in the United States, except in the 
     United States Capitol; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LaMALFA (for himself and Mr. Francis Rooney of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 2946. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the excise tax on heavy trucks and trailers, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DUNN:
       H.R. 2947. A bill to replace certain Coastal Barrier 
     Resources System maps; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Sinema, 
             and Mr. Poliquin):
       H.R. 2948. A bill to amend the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing 
     Act of 2008 to provide a temporary license for loan 
     originators transitioning between employers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina (for himself and Mr. 
             Byrne):
       H.R. 2949. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to authorize borrowers to separate joint consolidation loans; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. PEARCE:
       H.R. 2950. A bill to amend section 200303 of title 54, 
     United States Code, to ensure that amounts are made available 
     for projects to provide recreational public access, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BABIN:
       H.R. 2951. A bill to allow Members of Congress to carry a 
     concealed handgun anywhere in the United States, with 
     exceptions; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on House Administration, and 
     Homeland Security, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Lee, Ms. Moore, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, and Mr. 
             Langevin):
       H.R. 2952. A bill to support the establishment or expansion 
     and operation of programs using a network of public and 
     private community entities to provide mentoring for children 
     in foster care; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Rokita, 
             Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Harris, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Bera, Mr. Griffith, Mr. 
             Bucshon, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Carter of Georgia, and 
             Mr. Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 2953. A bill to amend the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974 respecting the scoring of preventive health savings; to 
     the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself and Mr. Luetkemeyer):
       H.R. 2954. A bill to amend the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act 
     of 1975 to specify which depository institutions are subject 
     to the maintenance of records and disclosure requirements of 
     such Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. ENGEL:
       H.R. 2955. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     permit the installation of pulsating light systems for high 
     mounted stop lamps, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Jones, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Harper, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Chabot, and Mr. Palazzo):
       H.R. 2956. A bill to provide for parental notification and 
     intervention in the case of an unemancipated minor seeking an 
     abortion; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself and Mr. 
             Loebsack):
       H.R. 2957. A bill to amend titles XVIII and XIX of the 
     Social Security Act to provide for

[[Page H4993]]

     enhanced payments to rural health care providers under the 
     Medicare and Medicaid programs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, and the Budget, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Ms. 
             Barragan, Ms. Lee, Mr. Quigley, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Takano, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Ellison, and Mrs. 
             Napolitano):
       H.R. 2958. A bill to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
     protect the climate; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico:
       H.R. 2959. A bill to amend title XXI of the Social Security 
     Act to allow for parent mentors to be eligible to receive 
     outreach and enrollment grants under the Children's Health 
     Insurance Program under such title, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Serrano, Mr. Jeffries, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H.R. 2960. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     establish and carry out a grant program to make grants to 
     eligible institutions to plan and implement programs that 
     provide comprehensive support services and resources designed 
     to increase transfer and graduation rates at community 
     colleges, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Walz, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H.R. 2961. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to improve remedial education programs that train students in 
     the competencies needed to succeed in higher education; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 2962. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, 
     with respect to prohibiting the use of electronic cigarettes 
     on passenger flights, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN (for himself and Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 2963. A bill to amend the Federal Home Loan Bank Act 
     to provide investment authority to support rural 
     infrastructure development, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 2964. A bill to amend the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 
     2007 to stop a scheduled increase in the minimum wage 
     applicable to American Samoa and to provide that any future 
     increases in such minimum wage shall be determined by the 
     Secretary of Labor; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H.R. 2965. A bill to require all gas stations offering 
     self-service to meet certain accessibility standards for 
     individuals with disabilities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 2966. A bill to lift the trade embargo on Cuba, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and 
     Commerce, the Judiciary, Agriculture, and Financial Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Pocan, and Mr. 
             McGovern):
       H.R. 2967. A bill to amend the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
     to establish a grant program to appoint nutrition 
     coordinators to oversee local school nutrition policies in 
     local educational agencies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for himself, Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 2968. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to direct the Secretary of Education to provide each borrower 
     with an individualized repayment guide; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself and Mr. Schneider):
       H.R. 2969. A bill to amend the Federal Assets Sale and 
     Transfer Act of 2016 to allow the Federal Government to lease 
     or sell abandoned or unused Federal civilian real properties 
     for use as makerspaces, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Payne, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Vela, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Serrano, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Lance, 
             Mr. Conyers, and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 2970. A bill to amend section 428K(b) of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 to include certain cultural workers, 
     museum professionals, artistic professionals, arts and 
     humanities professors, and music and arts educators among the 
     individuals eligible for loan forgiveness for service in 
     areas of national need; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr. Engel, and Mr. 
             Schweikert):
       H. Res. 393. A resolution expressing support for addressing 
     the Arab-Israeli conflict in a concurrent track with the 
     Israeli-Palestinian peace process and commending Arab and 
     Muslim-majority states that have improved bilateral relations 
     with Israel; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself and Mr. Cook):
       H. Res. 394. A resolution supporting international academic 
     freedom and American universities abroad; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Bera, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Engel, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Hultgren, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Keating, Mr. Kind, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Quigley, Mr. Schneider, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Sires, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. Tonko, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Beyer, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Levin, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Welch, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Ms. Speier, Mr. Raskin, Ms. McCollum, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Schiff, Mr. McGovern, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Serrano, and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H. Res. 395. A resolution reaffirming the leadership of the 
     United States in promoting the safety, health, and well-being 
     of refugees and displaced persons; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



