

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6584-H6585]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DeSAULNIER:
       H.R. 3633. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to adjust the rate of income tax of a publicly traded 
     corporation based on the ratio of compensation of the 
     corporation's highest paid employee to the median 
     compensation of all the corporation's employees; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HIMES:
       H.R. 3634. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that individuals may access documentation verifying 
     the monthly housing stipend paid to the individual under the 
     Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 3635. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act in order to improve the process whereby medicare 
     administrative contractors issue local coverage 
     determinations under the Medicare program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KIHUEN (for himself, Mr. Takano, Ms. Lee, and 
             Ms. DeLauro):
       H.R. 3636. A bill to improve quality and accountability for 
     educator preparation programs; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
       H.R. 3637. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     better assist producers who are voluntarily making the 
     transition to organic production systems, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Mr. Diaz-Balart, 
             Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Soto, Mr. Crist, 
             Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Dunn, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Ross, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Francis 
             Rooney of

[[Page H6585]]

             Florida, Mr. Bilirakis, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Posey, 
             and Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 3638. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1100 Kings Road in 
     Jacksonville, Florida, as the ``Rutledge Pearson Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Costa, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Panetta, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Tonko, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Crist, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. McNerney, Mr. 
             Veasey, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 3639. A bill to establish a position of Science 
     Laureate of the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE:
       H.R. 3640. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     establish within the Office of the Under Secretary for Health 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs the position of Chief 
     Information Officer of the Veterans Health Administration, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.

                          ____________________



