

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2829-H2832]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1730
               U.S. WANTS TO COMPETE FOR A WORLD EXPO ACT

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 534) to require the Secretary of State to take such 
actions as may be necessary for the United States to rejoin the Bureau 
of International Expositions, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 534

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``U.S. Wants to Compete for a 
     World Expo Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds the following:
       (1) The Bureau of International Expositions (BIE) is the 
     organization responsible for governing World Fairs and 
     International Expositions.
       (2) Section 1(a) of Public Law 91-269 (22 U.S.C. 2801(a)) 
     found that ``international expositions . . . have a 
     significant impact on the economic growth of the region 
     surrounding the exposition and . . . are important 
     instruments of national policy''.
       (3) The United States has not been an active member of the 
     BIE since 2001.
       (4) State and local governments and private entities in the 
     United States have continued to participate in international 
     expositions held in foreign countries as a means of promoting 
     United States exports and creating jobs, but face 
     significantly higher costs for such participation because the 
     United States is not an active member.
       (5) State and local governments and private entities in the 
     United States have expressed interest in an international 
     exposition being hosted in the United States, but the bid of 
     a United States city, region, or State to host an 
     international exposition is unlikely to be successful if the 
     United States is not a member of the BIE.

     SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States should rejoin the BIE immediately to 
     promote domestic job creation, global branding, and tourism 
     to the United States;
       (2) the Secretary of State, in partnership with the 
     Secretary of Commerce, State and local governments, and 
     private and non-profit entities, should take all necessary 
     steps to facilitate the timely submission of a request to 
     rejoin the BIE; and
       (3) funding for the participation of the United States in 
     international expositions or other events facilitated by the 
     BIE should continue to be privately solicited and sourced, in 
     accordance with existing law.

     SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of State is authorized to 
     take such actions as the Secretary determines necessary for 
     the United States to rejoin and maintain membership in the 
     BIE.
       (b) Authorization to Accept Private Contributions.--In 
     addition to funds otherwise available to the Secretary to 
     carry out this section, the Secretary is authorized to accept 
     contributions for such purpose.

[[Page H2830]]

       (c) Notification.--The Secretary of State shall notify the 
     Committees on Foreign Affairs and Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Committees on Foreign Relations 
     and Appropriations of the Senate upon taking any action under 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 5. CONTINUATION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS 
                   FOR WORLD'S FAIR PAVILIONS AND EXHIBITS.

       Nothing in this Act may be construed to authorize any 
     obligation or expenditure prohibited by section 204 of the 
     Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations 
     Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 (22 U.S.C. 
     2452b) (relating to limitations on the obligation or 
     expenditure of funds by the Department of State for a United 
     States pavilion or exhibit at an international exposition or 
     world's fair registered by the BIE).

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Bass) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include any extraneous material in the Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 534, the U.S. Wants to Compete for a World 
Expo Act. As always, I appreciate the assistance of the ranking member, 
Mr. Engel, in expediting this legislation. I would like to commend two 
of our body here, Mr. Tom Emmer and Ms. Betty McCollum. We thank them 
and their Minnesota colleagues for their leadership on this issue.
  Mr. Speaker, this bill will enable American citizens and our 
businesses and State and local governments to once again compete on an 
even footing against foreign countries to host a World Expo here in the 
United States. It does so by authorizing the Secretary of State to take 
those steps necessary to rejoin the Bureau of International 
Expositions. This BIE, as it is called, is the organization that 
governs World Expos, and it determines which cities get to host such an 
event.
  The United States originally joined the BIE back in 1928, but it 
withdrew from active membership in 2001. Unfortunately, the rules of 
the BIE make it virtually impossible for bids from nonmember nations to 
compete against bids from member nations. This bill will revise this. 
It will reverse the longstanding position, and we can lend our support 
to a recent surge of American interest in once again hosting a World 
Expo in the United States.
  Citizens from Minnesota have developed a comprehensive bid and are 
actively competing against cities in Argentina and Poland to host the 
2023 World Expo, but since these countries are BIE members, the U.S. 
must rejoin the BIE in order for Minnesota to compete on an even 
playing field when the BIE makes its recommendations to the selection 
committee in May.
  It is not just Minnesota that is interested in this. At least five 
other U.S. States and cities are actively exploring hosting a World 
Expo in the future, including Los Angeles and San Francisco from my 
home State of California. These cities know that World Expos create 
American jobs. They promote American exports. They enhance the image of 
America around the world. Indeed, in November, the Departments of 
Commerce and State submitted reports to the President certifying that 
the Minnesota proposal was in the national interest of the United 
States and had guaranteed financial support from State, from local, 
from private, and other sources.
  Members should know that U.S. law requires that the cost of hosting 
or participating in a World Expo be funded entirely by private donors. 
This bill does not change that. In fact, it reaffirms that requirement. 
This bill also specifically authorizes the Department of State to 
accept private contributions in order to cover any costs associated 
with rejoining the organization. Indeed, the organizers of Minnesota's 
2023 Expo bid have committed to do just that.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 534 in 
order to once again give the American people the opportunity to host a 
World Expo here in the United States.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in strong support of the U.S. Wants to Compete for a World 
Expo Act. Let me thank our chairman, Ed Royce, for his leadership of 
the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I also want to thank my colleagues 
from Minnesota, Ms. McCollum and Mr. Emmer, for their hard work on this 
measure.
  World Fairs and World Expos explore and bring millions of people 
together from around the globe. They drive billions of dollars of 
investment to host cities, and they provide a forum for working toward 
new and creative solutions to serious problems. Across more than a 
century, these Expos have given us some of the world's most iconic 
architecture: the Golden Gate Bridge, the Space Needle, and the Eiffel 
Tower. They have brought together world leaders and experts to discuss 
topics ranging from nutrition to the future of energy.
  The last Expo held in the United States was in 1984, and Minnesota is 
a potential candidate to host the 2023 World Expo. This Expo could 
bring in about 12 million visitors and $4 billion of revenue to 
Minnesota and connect the public and private sector to discuss Wellness 
and Well-Being for All.
  Mr. Speaker, we are at a grave disadvantage in competing for this 
event. In 2001, at the direction of Congress, the State Department 
withdrew from numerous international associations, including the Bureau 
of International Expositions, or BIE. Then-Secretary of State Colin 
Powell warned that this action could force the U.S. to pay a higher fee 
for participation and decrease the chance of an American city being 
selected as a host city.
  We are currently facing these consequences. As a nonmember of the 
BIE, the United States faces significantly higher costs to participate 
in expositions and will also face substantial barriers in hosting since 
preference is given to member nations.
  Mr. Speaker, the remedy is simple. We must rejoin the BIE. Private 
sector companies have shown interest in paying membership dues, so 
rejoining the BIE would not be an additional burden to taxpayers.
  Hosting the World Expo would increase revenue and tourism to 
Minnesota and the U.S. generally, put us at the forefront of 
international discussion on health, and increase our chances to hold 
specialized and World Expos in the future. I am proud of the hard work 
that has gone into this by my colleagues. I am glad once again that we 
are working in a bipartisan manner to pass legislation that advances 
our interests.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote, and I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record two 
letters of support for this bill. One is from the administration, and 
the other is from ExpoUSA, the United States World's Fairs Council.

                            United States Department of State,

                                   Washington, DC, April 24, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: The Department of State appreciates 
     Congress' interest in facilitating the bids of states to host 
     international expositions. Not only do such events 
     potentially generate considerable economic benefits but they 
     also create ideal opportunities for showcasing American 
     commercial capabilities to interested international 
     audiences. This is consistent with the President's policy to 
     promote domestic job growth and American innovation.
       As the Bureau of International Expositions (BIE) is the 
     international organization responsible for selecting venues 
     offered by bidders, the chances of U.S. bidders being 
     selected would be greatly enhanced if the U.S. were to renew 
     and maintain its membership in the BIE. H.R. 534, the ``U.S. 
     Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act'', as amended, would 
     provide the needed permissive authority for the Secretary of 
     State to do so.
       Further, the Department greatly appreciates the efforts of 
     Congress to ensure the bill is consistent with similar 
     authorizations. Insofar as BIE has advised of the need for 
     United States membership to be renewed by May 12, 2017, to 
     ensure timely consideration of the Minnesota Expo 2023 bid, 
     the Department urges that, if possible, the bill be passed 
     quickly. This will enable the Department to take the 
     necessary steps to renew membership, enhancing prospects that 
     state bids to host upcoming expositions will prevail. With 
     the U.S. membership within BIE,

[[Page H2831]]

     costs for states to bid and host will be decreased by half 
     and provide long-term savings for U.S. businesses interested 
     in participating in future expos, both domestically and 
     internationally.
       Finally, expeditious renewal of United States membership in 
     the BIE will return the United States to the decision-making 
     body for future World's Fairs and Expos, offsetting the 
     growing influence of other countries, such as China.
       The Office of Management and Budget has no objection to the 
     views expressed in this letter.
       Thank you for your consideration in this matter.
           Sincerely,
                                               Joseph E. Macmanus,
     Bureau of Legislative Affairs.
                                  ____

                                        ExpoUSA, The United States


                                        World's Fairs Council,

                                                   April 19, 2017.
     Hon. Ed Royce,
     Chairman, House Foreign Affairs Committee,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Eliot Engel,
     Ranking Member, House Foreign Affairs Committee,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel: On behalf of 
     ExpoUSA and Minnesota's World's Fair Bid Committee, we write 
     in support of The U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act 
     (H.R. 534). This bill authorizes the United States to rejoin 
     Bureau of International Exhibitions (BIE), the organization 
     that coordinates World's Fairs, also known as Expos. Renewing 
     membership in the BIE will promote public diplomacy, U.S. 
     exports and travel and tourism. It will also ensure that U.S. 
     cities wanting to host Expos will have that opportunity to 
     compete against cities around the world. H.R. 534 has gained 
     bipartisan and national support.
       While the U.S. has not hosted a World's Fair in more than 
     30 years, there's been a surge of local interest over the 
     past few years. Houston, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Las 
     Vegas, and Philadelphia have actively considered bidding for 
     future Expos, and the U.S. Government gave official support 
     for Minnesota's bid to host a World's Fair in 2023 focused on 
     health and wellness. After passing a rigorous review by the 
     United States Commerce Department, State Department, and the 
     White House, the State Department formally recommended 
     Minnesota's bid to the BIE. Minnesota will now compete 
     against Buenos Aires, Argentina and Lodz, Poland. Voting will 
     take place at the BIE General Council meeting in November 
     2017.
       Under current rules, the BIE is required to discriminate 
     against bids from non-member countries if there are competing 
     proposals from member countries. Since Argentina and Poland 
     are BIE members, the U.S. must rejoin the BIE in order for 
     Minnesota to compete against these foreign bidders when the 
     BIE makes its recommendations to the selection committee in 
     May. Therefore, Congress must pass legislation authorizing 
     the Secretary of State to rejoin the BIE by May 13, 2017 in 
     order for Minnesota's bid to be viable.
       Expos held in the U.S. are local initiatives that are 
     funded entirely by the private sector; therefore no taxpayer 
     money will be used to pay for Expo 2023. Additionally, if 
     Congress acts to rejoin the BIE, ExpoUSA stands ready to pay 
     the costs of BIE membership with private sector funds, 
     including membership dues both past and current, in order to 
     save money by reducing fees and to give Minnesota and the 
     U.S. a renewed voice in the BIE.
       World's Fairs are the largest gatherings held on the 
     planet, generating billions of dollars in economic activity 
     for the region and country in which they are held. Expo 2023 
     will attract 12 million visitors, generating 22,000 jobs in 
     the upper Midwest region, paying an annual wage of $47,000, 
     and another 18,000 jobs nationwide in the tourism, travel, 
     and hospitality sectors. Total economic impact in the Twin 
     Cities metropolitan area will be $1.4 billion. International 
     visitor spending will total $581 million, and on average will 
     stay 6 days in Minnesota and another 5 days in other 
     locations around the United States.
       We ask for your support in expeditiously moving legislation 
     authorizing the United States to rejoin the BIE.
       Thank you for consideration of our request and for your 
     interest in helping cities like Minneapolis/St. Paul bid on 
     future World's Fairs.
           Sincerely,
     Mark Ritchie,
       President and CEO, Minnesota World's Fair Bid Committee, 
     Board Member, ExpoUSA.
     Manuel Delgado,
       Chairman, ExpoUSA.

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Emmer). He is the author of this bill. He 
has worked very hard preparing this legislation for passage.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding. I thank 
Chairman Ed Royce, Ranking Member Engel as well, and the entire staff 
on the Committee on Foreign Affairs for working to get this important 
legislation to the floor today.
  Mr. Speaker, when many Americans look back in our Nation's history, 
they remember the iconic nature of the 1962 World's Fair in Seattle or 
the 1939 and 1964 World's Fairs in New York. Those events highlighted 
the best the United States had to offer in science, technology, and 
innovation, all while bringing visitors and revenue to this great 
country.
  While the United States remains a global leader in these fields, our 
country has been noticeably absent over the past three decades when it 
comes to hosting a World's Fair. In fact, New Orleans was the last city 
in the United States to host a World's Fair in 1984. But it is time for 
that to change and to bring this incredible event back to our great 
country.
  Thankfully, in recent years there has been an upsurge of local 
interest in hosting a World's Fair. Exploratory committees in Houston, 
Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Minneapolis, Philadelphia, and San Francisco 
are actively considering bidding to host a future World's Fair. 
Currently, my home State of Minnesota is competing against Argentina 
and Poland to do just that, with the goal of hosting the 2023 World 
Expo. However, under the current rules, the Bureau of International 
Expositions will not give bids submitted by a nonmember country the 
same consideration as those from a country who is a member of the 
organization.
  For those of you who may not know, the Bureau of International 
Expositions is the intergovernmental organization in charge of 
overseeing and regulating World Expos. Despite being one of the 
founding members in 1928, the United States has not been a member since 
2001. The U.S. must renew its membership so Minneapolis and every city 
across the country can have an opportunity to host a World's Fair.
  That is why I have introduced and I am happy to see H.R. 534 under 
consideration before the House today. The U.S. Wants to Compete for a 
World Expo Act provides the Secretary of State with the authority to 
rejoin the Bureau of International Expositions so that U.S. cities can 
compete against foreign cities to host a World Expo. The 6-month World 
Expo, held every 5 years, can draw millions of visitors and generate 
billions of dollars in tourism, construction, and other job-creating 
economic activity, all while promoting exports of U.S. products around 
the world.
  In Minnesota's case, a 2016 economic analysis conducted by Rockport 
Analytics found that hosting the 2023 World Expo will attract 12 
million visitors, create almost 22,000 jobs, yield $185.3 million in 
State and local tax revenue, and generate $1.5 billion in total 
economic benefits. This legislation also has safeguards for protecting 
taxpayers and ensuring proper use of funds. Recognizing the difficult 
fiscal climate our country currently faces, H.R. 534 authorizes the use 
of private funds to pay outstanding as well as future membership dues. 
It also maintains taxpayer safeguards which prohibit tax dollars from 
being used to fund a United States pavilion or exhibit at an 
international exposition or World's Fair.
  By approving this legislation today, we will give American cities the 
ability to compete with other cities around the world to host future 
Expos and World's Fairs where we can showcase American innovation and 
success while continuing to be wise stewards of the taxpayers' hard-
earned dollars.
  Again, I thank Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel in helping 
bring this legislation to the floor today. I urge my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to support this legislation, and I look forward to 
bringing the next World's Fair back to the United States.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  World Expos are designed to showcase a nation's products, the 
technology, the innovative spirit. And what nation on Earth produces 
more innovative products and technology than the United States or has a 
better or more skilled workforce?
  Simply put, when Americans compete in the world on an even footing, 
America wins. It is therefore in our interest to once again compete to 
host a World Expo.

[[Page H2832]]

  This bill does that by empowering our fellow citizens to mount 
competitive private bids to bring a World Expo to the U.S., and it does 
so while maintaining a sound legal requirement that participation in 
Expos continue to be privately funded. It goes further to permit 
private funding for the relatively modest cost to rejoin the BIE. That 
is why this measure has the support of Members from both parties and 
the administration, which has written that H.R. 534 is consistent with 
the President's policy to promote domestic job growth and American 
innovation.
  I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this measure and give our 
fellow Americans the chance to compete and win a World Expo for 
America. I again thank the bill's committed sponsors, Representatives 
Tom Emmer and Betty McCollum. I want to give a special thanks to Sean 
O'Neill, a detailee on my staff, whose skill and dedication have made 
today's consideration of this measure possible.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 534, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



