

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4116-S4117]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 431, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to expand the use of telehealth for 
individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 563

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 563, a bill to amend the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to require that certain buildings 
and personal property be covered by flood insurance, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 609

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 609, a bill 
to amend the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care Programs 
Enhancement Act of 2001 and title 38, United States Code, to require 
the provision of chiropractic care and services to veterans at all 
Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers and to expand access to 
such care and services, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 690

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 690, a bill to extend the 
eligibility of redesignated areas as HUBZones from 3 years to 7 years.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to improve the 
ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, 
other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 794

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 794, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act in order to improve the 
process whereby Medicare administrative contractors issue local 
coverage determinations under the Medicare program, and for other 
purposes.

[[Page S4117]]

  



                                 S. 952

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 952, a bill to increase 
the role of the financial industry in combating human trafficking.


                                S. 1034

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1034, a bill to improve 
agricultural job opportunities, benefits, and security for aliens in 
the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1122

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1122, a bill to 
amend the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to clarify when 
the time period for the issuance of citations under such Act begins and 
to require a rule to clarify that an employer's duty to make and 
maintain accurate records of work-related injuries and illnesses is an 
ongoing obligation.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1182, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to mint commemorative coins in recognition of 
the 100th anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1311, a bill to provide assistance 
in abolishing human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1393

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1393, a bill to streamline the 
process by which active duty military, reservists, and veterans receive 
commercial driver's licenses.


                                S. 1462

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1462, a bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act to improve cost sharing subsidies.


                                S. 1526

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1526, a bill to appropriate 
amounts to the Department of Veterans Affairs to improve the provision 
of health care to veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1533

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1533, a bill to amend title 
XIX of the Social Security Act to cover physician services delivered by 
podiatric physicians to ensure access by Medicaid beneficiaries to 
appropriate quality foot and ankle care, to amend title XVIII of such 
Act to modify the requirements for diabetic shoes to be included under 
Medicare, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1546

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1546, a bill to amend the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to provide greater 
flexibility in offering health insurance coverage across State lines.


                                S. 1552

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1552, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals to designate that up 
to 10 percent of their income tax liability be used to reduce the 
national debt, and to require spending reductions equal to the amounts 
so designated.


                                S. 1558

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1558, a bill to amend 
section 203 of Public Law 94-305 to ensure proper authority for the 
Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1559

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1559, a bill to ensure a 
complete analysis of the potential impacts of rules on small entities.


                                S. 1562

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1562, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to the Government of the Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea and any enablers of the activities of that 
Government, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1587

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1587, a bill for the relief of 
Liu Xia.


                                S. 1588

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1588, a bill to secure Federal voting rights of 
persons when released from incarceration.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1589, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act to expand 
the availability of employee stock ownership plans in S corporations, 
and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 17

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 17, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.


                            S. CON. RES. 15

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 15, a concurrent 
resolution expressing support for the designation of October 28, 2017, 
as ``Honoring the Nation's First Responders Day'' .


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 75, a 
resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary of the Academy of 
Nutrition and Dietetics, the largest organization of food and nutrition 
professionals in the world.


                              S. RES. 160

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 160, a 
resolution honoring the service to United States Armed Forces provided 
by military working dogs and contract working dogs, also known as ``war 
dogs''.


                              S. RES. 223

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 223, a resolution honoring 
the life and legacy of Liu Xiaobo for his steadfast commitment to the 
protection of human rights, political freedoms, free markets, 
democratic elections, government accountability, and peaceful change in 
the People's Republic of China

                          ____________________



