

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4026-S4027]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 167

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 167, a bill to designate a 
National Memorial to Fallen Educators at the National Teachers Hall of 
Fame in Emporia, Kansas.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill 
to require continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the 
Annual Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic 
incidents in Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish 
communities, and the efforts of the United States to partner with 
European governments, the European Union, and civil society groups, to 
combat anti-Semitism, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare 
coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of 
durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 512, a bill to 
modernize the regulation of nuclear energy.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 623, a bill to enhance the 
transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance provided under the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in 
developing countries, to better enable such countries to achieve 
universal access to quality basic education and improved learning 
outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 683

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 683, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to extend the requirement to provide nursing 
home care to certain veterans with service-connected disabilities.


                                 S. 916

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 916, a bill 
to amend the Controlled Substances Act with regard to the provision of 
emergency medical services.


                                 S. 978

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 978, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Education to establish an award program recognizing 
excellence exhibited by public school system employees providing 
services to students in prekindergarten through higher education.


                                 S. 981

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 981, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Energy to establish an energy efficiency 
materials pilot program.


                                S. 1051

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1051, a bill to encourage visits 
between the United States and Taiwan at all levels, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1106

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1106, a bill to designate 
the same individual serving as the Chief Nurse Officer of the Public 
Health Service as the National Nurse for Public Health.


                                S. 1113

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1113, a bill to 
amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety of 
cosmetics.


                                S. 1132

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1132, a 
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent 
the removal of the rental cap for durable medical equipment under the 
Medicare program with respect to speech generating devices.


                                S. 1221

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1221, a bill to 
counter the influence of the Russian Federation in Europe and Eurasia, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1312, a bill to prioritize the fight 
against human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1327

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1327, a bill to amend the Controlled 
Substances Act to clarify how controlled substance analogues are to be 
regulated, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1354

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor

[[Page S4027]]

of S. 1354, a bill to establish an Individual Market Reinsurance fund 
to provide funding for State individual market stabilization 
reinsurance programs.


                                S. 1462

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1462, a bill to amend 
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to improve cost sharing 
subsidies.


                                S. 1498

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1498, a bill to 
establish in the Smithsonian Institution a comprehensive American 
women's history museum, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1514

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) and the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) were added as cosponsors of S. 1514, a bill to 
amend certain Acts to reauthorize those Acts and to increase 
protections for wildlife, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1526

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1526, a bill to appropriate 
amounts to the Department of Veterans Affairs to improve the provision 
of health care to veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1560

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1560, a bill to ensure 
the integrity of border and immigration enforcement efforts by 
requiring U.S. Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement to administer law enforcement polygraph 
examinations to all applicants for law enforcement positions and to 
require post-hire polygraph examinations for law enforcement personnel 
as part of periodic reinvestigations.


                                S. 1564

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1564, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permit legally married same-
sex couples to amend their filing status for returns outside the 3-year 
limitation

                          ____________________



