

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 83 (Monday, May 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 83 (Monday, May 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2934]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr. Tester):
  S. 1125. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide 
Federal Pell Grants to Iraq and Afghanistan veteran's dependents; to 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, when a United States servicemember gives 
their life in service to their country, they often leave behind family 
who we are equally indebted. Ensuring that these survivors are provided 
every opportunity to succeed and get a quality education supports our 
values and upholds our promise to servicemembers and military families. 
Unfortunately, our ability to uphold our promise to dependents of 
servicemembers who were killed in action (KIA) in Iraq and Afghanistan 
following the attacks on September 11, 2001 was affected recently.
  In May 2016 the U.S. Department of Education sent a letter to 
institutions of higher education requiring them to reduce the Iraq and 
Afghanistan Service Grant awards by 7% or roughly $400 per student. 
These grants are critical for students to use for tuition, books, and 
room and board and any future cut would be significant for a young 
college student. Many children and dependents of servicemembers who 
were KIA in Iraq and Afghanistan are now reaching college age so more 
and more students will not be receiving as much in grants as they 
should be getting and rightfully deserve.
  Today, I am pleased to introduce with my colleague Senator Tester the 
Protect our Gold Star Families' Education Act of 2017. This legislation 
will move the Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant program to the Pell 
Grant program to stabilize the funding source for these awards and 
ensure Gold Star families have access to the maximum Pell Grant funding 
available if they previously did not qualify for Pell Grants. The 
program would maintain the same eligibility requirements under the 
existing Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants--parent or guardian having 
died as a result of military service in Iraq or Afghanistan after 9/11 
and are 24 years old or younger--and the award would continue to equal 
the maximum Pell Grant for that award year.
  While Virginia public universities already offer tuition assistance 
to dependents whose parents were killed in action or were permanently 
disabled under the state's Virginia Military Survivors and Dependents 
Education Program (VMSDEP), these funds could be used to offset tuition 
at private institutions and could also cover additional expenses, 
including room and board, books, and supplies. Over 500 Virginians have 
attended or are currently attending college at public universities with 
assistance through VMSDEP and would qualify for these Pell Grants as 
well.
  Our Gold Star families have made the ultimate sacrifice for this 
country and ensuring they have access to a quality college education is 
the right thing to do. Moving the Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant 
under the Pell Grant program will provide more security to Gold Star 
families and help ease the burden of college costs. As more of our post 
9/11 Gold Star children are starting to reach college age, now is the 
right time to improve the grant system. I hope that my colleagues will 
incorporate this bill in a reauthorization of the Higher Education Act.

                          ____________________



