

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3073-S3074]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     CONFIRMATION OF TERRY BRANSTAD

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise in opposition, understanding that 
the vote has been taken but wanting to speak on the record about the 
nomination of Governor Terry Branstad to be Ambassador to the People's 
Republic of China.
  This is a critical diplomatic post today, perhaps more than at any 
time in our history. It has certainly been increasingly important 
through every administration as China's expansionist views of the world 
grow, as China's economy becomes more and more dominant in East Asia, 
and as China, by not playing fair on economic issues, has caused, with 
the acquiescence of many, many American companies, far too many jobs to 
move there.
  We have seen sort of a new business model for American business that 
has been around now for a quarter of a century--something that economic 
history never showed us before--where companies shut down in places 
like Willowick or Toledo or Dayton or Springfield, OH, and move 
overseas. They are getting tax breaks to do it. They build plants there 
and sell those products back into Ohio or into Oklahoma or into the 
United States in the other 48 States. Unfortunately, China has been 
part of that, while U.S. companies have acted, in many cases, 
irresponsibly, and China has played into it.
  We have serious issues with China, from their currency manipulation 
to trade cheating that hurts the American steel industry to their 
dismal, documented record on human rights and religious freedom. On all 
of these fronts, we need to take a firm position with China. We need an 
ambassador who will advocate for American workers, for American 
businesses, and, yes, for American values. I don't believe Governor 
Branstad will be that ambassador.
  When it comes to putting American workers first, Governor Branstad's 
record, frankly, is appalling. How can he advocate for American workers 
and for expanding the rights of working people around the world when he 
fought against it at home in his home State of Iowa? As Governor, Terry 
Branstad waged war on collective bargaining rights. He recently signed 
legislation that takes away the right of public employees to bargain 
for fair wages and for healthcare rights that they have guaranteed for 
45 years--rights that were enshrined by a law signed by a former 
Republican Governor.
  When the State Department measures labor rights in countries around 
the world, they look at whether a country's laws allow workers to 
organize and engage in collective bargaining. China's results have 
always been poor. They have been criticized for deplorable working 
conditions. How can our country--how can the United States--lead by 
example when it comes to ensuring that hard work pays off when the man 
representing us in Beijing, when the man representing us at the 
negotiating table is taking away workers' rights in our own country? 
Don't think for a moment that the Chinese will not remind the American 
Ambassador of what he has done with workers' rights in his home State, 
as we perhaps argue--it is unclear if we will now, but perhaps we will 
argue--for expanding workers' rights in China.
  I appreciate the questions for the record that Senator Cardin 
submitted to Governor Branstad. Unfortunately, his answers were vague 
and did nothing to address the serious concerns that many of us have.
  The President made a lot of campaign promises when it comes to 
standing up to China. I have been clear since the days after the 
election, when I called the President-elect's transition team, and in 
conversations since then with President Trump and with the U.S. Trade 
Representative, Ambassador Lighthizer, that I want to work with them on 
that--with the President and with the U.S. Trade Representative.
  After his meeting with Chinese President Xi, I sent a letter to 
President Trump outlining steps he should take for fighting for 
American workers, particularly in the steel industry, in his 100-day 
plan on trade. But the person negotiating that 100-day plan needs to 
have America's workers first in their mind. Governor Branstad has made 
it clear that multinational corporations, not ordinary American 
workers--not people in Youngstown, Warren, Steubenville, and Columbus--
will have his ear.
  We can see corporate fingerprints on these trade agreements. Rarely 
do we see workers at the table advocating for workers' rights. We only 
see trade policy that reflects the interests of large corporations. 
Those corporations then use these trade policies to outsource jobs 
around the world.
  It is not just workers' rights where China falls woefully short and 
where we need to take a tough stand. China's record on human rights and 
religious freedom is unacceptable. Our Ambassador needs to make that 
clear. When U.S. officials represent us in the world, they must not 
only be advocates for our business interests--they should be that, to 
be sure--but they must also be critical advocates on behalf of workers 
and on behalf of the Nation's values--values like freedom of speech, 
freedom to organize, and the freedom to challenge powerful special 
interests. These are values that go to the core of who we are as the 
American people. But, again, Governor Branstad has not led by example. 
He has waged war on women's access to healthcare.
  Just this week, Planned Parenthood announced that they will be forced 
to

[[Page S3074]]

shut down four Iowa health clinics because of the law signed by 
Governor Branstad that blocked its funding. These clinics served 15,000 
patients over the past 3 years--not providing abortions. The great 
majority of these 15,000 patients got primary care, preventive care, 
contraceptive coverage--all the things that women in every community in 
this country demand.
  Many live in rural areas. Many have nowhere else to turn for care. 
Now, where do all of these women go for cancer screenings, diabetes 
screenings, and other preventive care? Yet Governor Branstad has signed 
legislation taking it away, forcing the shutdown of these clinics.
  Access to healthcare is a basic right in this country, and it should 
be in all 50 States. We need to take care of American patients and 
American workers and set an example for the world. Our diplomats must 
be that example. But, instead, we now have a man at the negotiating 
table who again and again and again has proven that he wants to turn 
back the clock on healthcare and on workers' rights.
  We need an ambassador with a record of championing American values. 
Only then can we be confident that he will stand up to China and put 
Ohio workers and American workers first. Frankly, I question Governor 
Branstad's ability to be that ambassador--to represent the people of 
this great country in the People's Republic of China.

                          ____________________



