

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2611-S2612]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO TERESA SHOOK

  Ms. HIRONO, Mr. President, one of the life lessons that I try to keep 
in mind is that one person can make a difference.
  Today I wish to recognize one of these remarkable people--Hawaii 
resident Teresa Shook.
  Most of my colleagues probably don't know who Teresa Shook is, but I 
am certain all of them know what difference she has made.
  Teresa lives in the idyllic but isolated community of Hana on Maui. 
Following the recent Presidential election, like many Americans, Teresa 
had concerns about where our country was headed. She felt that it was 
time to pursue real action. Unsure of where to begin, she took to 
social media, posing the following question: ``What if women marched on 
Washington around Inauguration Day en masse?''
  Little did she know what that simple Facebook post would lead to. She 
created a public events page, which caught the attention of 40 people 
in the first few hours of its posting. She woke up the following 
morning to find that the event had garnered international attention, 
and more than 10,000 individuals had pledged their attendance. The 
numbers and support would only go up from there.
  On January 20, 2017, the President delivered his inaugural address in 
which he painted a grim picture of America. The next day, millions 
across the United States and around the globe took to the streets to 
demonstrate against his bleak view of our shared future. Coined the 
Women's March on Washington, the event united women, men, and children 
of all ages, races, and religions. From Hilo to Hanalei, San Francisco 
to New York City, the march assisted in generating meaningful 
conversations about how to combat the hateful rhetoric and 
discriminatory agenda of the new President. It has helped and 
encouraged everyday citizens, many of whom have never been involved in 
politics, to get outside of their comfort zone and participate.
  The need for progressive solutions to reform our criminal justice 
system, protect and expand access to affordable health care, improve 
immigration, fight climate change, and protect a woman's right to 
choose are just a few of the many reasons why Teresa and many others 
alike decided action needed to take place.
  The Women's March on Washington was one event, but the network it 
generated remains engaged. It is now a global movement against 
nationalism, discrimination, and hate. It all started when a retired 
attorney, grandmother of four, and breast cancer survivor decided to 
speak up. While demonstrations are integral to democracy, the Women's 
March on Washington pointed

[[Page S2612]]

to the need for everyday individuals to take their desire for political 
advancement beyond the streets.
  Teresa started a global movement from her rural Maui home, showing us 
the difference one person can make. It is up to all of us to keep that 
momentum going, to stay engaged. For those who feel as though their 
voice has no place within a conversation to pursue change, Teresa has 
shown a path forward. If there is anything to learn from Women's March 
on Washington, it is that we are not alone. There is no greater time 
than now to mobilize your communities and make your voices heard.
  Teresa, who has been honored by the Maui County Council and continues 
to be recognized by many internationally, is a shining example of what 
we call ``Living Aloha.'' A heartfelt mahalo nui loa to Teresa.

                          ____________________



