

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3396-S3397]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 21

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 21, a bill to amend chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, to provide that major rules of the 
executive branch shall have no force or effect unless a joint 
resolution of approval is enacted into law.


                                 S. 37

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 37, a bill to require U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to take into custody certain aliens 
who have been charged in the United States with a crime that resulted 
in the death or serious bodily injury of another person, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 45

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Alabama (Mr. 
Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 45, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to increase penalties for individuals 
who illegally reenter the United States after being removed and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the 
Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely 
for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 235

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 235, a bill to expand 
opportunity through greater choice in education, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to 
home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare 
program.


                                 S. 448

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 448, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for treatment of clinical psychologists as 
physicians for purposes of furnishing clinical psychologist services 
under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 486, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the non-
application of Medicare competitive acquisition rates to complex 
rehabilitative wheelchairs and accessories.


                                 S. 636

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 636, a bill to allow 
Americans to earn paid sick time so that they can address their own 
health needs and the health needs of their families.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to 
revise section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 720, a bill to amend the Export Administration Act 
of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts against allies of 
the United States boycotts fostered by international governmental 
organizations against Israel and to direct the Export-Import Bank of 
the United States to oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 722, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, his name was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 722, supra.


                                 S. 738

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 738, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to provide funds to 
States and Indian tribes for the purpose of promoting economic 
revitalization, diversification, and development in economically 
distressed communities through the reclamation and restoration of land 
and water resources adversely affected by coal mining carried out 
before August 3, 1977, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 839

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Louisiana

[[Page S3397]]

(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 839, a bill to allow for 
judicial review of any final rule addressing national emission 
standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance 
with such rule.


                                 S. 899

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 899, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to ensure that the requirements 
that new Federal employees who are veterans with service-connected 
disabilities are provided leave for purposes of undergoing medical 
treatment for such disabilities apply to certain employees of the 
Veterans Health Administration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to 
authorize the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the 
National Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in 
the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to 
enhance the ability of community financial institutions to foster 
economic growth and serve their communities, boost small businesses, 
increase individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1136

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1136, a bill to 
improve the structure of the Federal Pell Grant program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of 
the Treasury to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th 
anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1197

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1197, a bill to waive the 24-
month waiting period for Medicare eligibility for individuals disabled 
by Huntington's disease.


                                S. 1243

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1243, a bill 
to require sexual assault prevention and response training for all 
individuals enlisted in the Armed Forces under a delayed entry program.


                                S. 1284

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1284, a bill to raise the 
consolidated assets threshold under the small bank holding company 
policy statement, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1328

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the names of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1328, a bill to extend the protections 
of the Fair Housing Act to persons suffering discrimination on the 
basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, and for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who 
served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of 
Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on 
May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of 
Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 136, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 102nd anniversary of 
the Armenian Genocide.


                              S. RES. 162

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 162, a resolution reaffirming the commitment of 
the United States to promoting religious freedom, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 229

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 229 intended to be proposed to S. 722, a 
bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's 
ballistic missile program, support for acts of international terrorism, 
and violations of human rights, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



