

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3070-S3072]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 122

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 122, a bill to prevent homeowners 
from being forced to pay taxes on forgiven mortgage loan debt.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 319

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 319, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to establish within the Department of Veterans Affairs a center 
of excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and 
rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad 
track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to 
amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States 
to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 446

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 446, a bill to allow 
reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for physical 
activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical care.


                                 S. 516

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren) and the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 516, a bill to provide grants to assist States in 
developing and implementing plans to address cybersecurity threats or 
vulnerabilities, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 524

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 524, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to make permanent certain provisions of 
the Heartland, Habitat, Harvest, and Horticulture Act of 2008 relating 
to timber.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend 
title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 597

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 597, a bill to increase 
Federal Pell Grants for the children of fallen public safety officers, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 622

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 622, a bill to preserve open 
competition and Federal Government neutrality towards the labor 
relations of Federal Government contractors on Federal and federally 
funded construction projects.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 654, a bill to revise section 48 of title 18, 
United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative 
care at accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing 
schools, social work schools, and other programs, including physician 
assistant education programs, to promote education and research in 
palliative care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty 
careers in academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 712

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 712, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes relating to 
appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
administered by the

[[Page S3071]]

Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect 
to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for 
acts of international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 766

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 766, a bill to amend 
titles 10 and 32, United States Code, to improve and enhance 
authorities relating to the employment, use, status, and benefits of 
military technicians (dual status), and for other purposes.


                                 S. 782

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 782, a bill to reauthorize the 
National Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 808, a bill to provide protections for 
certain sports medicine professionals who provide certain medical 
services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 816

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 816, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow rollovers from 529 
programs to ABLE accounts.


                                 S. 817

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 817, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the age requirement 
with respect to eligibility for qualified ABLE programs.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with 
disabilities to save additional amounts in their ABLE accounts above 
the current annual maximum contribution if they work and earn income.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 829, a bill to 
reauthorize the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire 
Prevention and Safety Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate 
Fire and Emergency Response grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 915, a bill to amend title 
II of the Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension offset 
and windfall elimination provisions.


                                 S. 916

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 916, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act with regard to the provision of emergency 
medical services.


                                 S. 936

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 936, a bill to 
designate certain National Forest System land and certain public land 
under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior in the States 
of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilderness, wild 
and scenic rivers, wildland recovery areas, and biological connecting 
corridors, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 937

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 937, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a refundable adoption tax 
credit.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for certain 
rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center services 
furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the Senator from 
North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. 
Wicker) were added as cosponsors of S. 1094, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the accountability of employees of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1122

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1122, a bill to 
amend the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to clarify when 
the time period for the issuance of citations under such Act begins and 
to require a rule to clarify that an employer's duty to make and 
maintain accurate records of work-related injuries and illnesses is an 
ongoing obligation.


                                S. 1132

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1132, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to make permanent the removal of the rental cap for 
durable medical equipment under the Medicare program with respect to 
speech generating devices.


                                S. 1134

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1134, a bill to protect 
law enforcement officers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1136

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1136, a bill to improve 
the structure of the Federal Pell Grant program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1154

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. 
Burr), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator from 
Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1154, a bill to amend title 37, United States Code, 
to provide for the housing treatment of members of the Armed Forces and 
their spouses and dependents undergoing a permanent change of station 
in the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1155

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1155, a bill to 
amend title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to increase 
the amount of financial support available for working students.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1158, a bill to help 
prevent acts of genocide and other atrocity crimes, which threaten 
national and international security, by enhancing United States 
Government capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises.


                               S. RES. 70

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 70, a resolution 
recognizing the 75th anniversary of Executive Order 9066 and expressing 
the sense of the Senate that policies that discriminate against any 
individual based on the actual or perceived race, ethnicity, national 
origin, or religion of that individual would be a repetition of the 
mistakes of Executive Order 9066 and contrary to the values of the 
United States.


                              S. RES. 162

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Missouri

[[Page S3072]]

(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 162, a resolution 
reaffirming the commitment of the United States to promoting religious 
freedom, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



