

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 95 (Monday, June 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 95 (Monday, June 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3240-S3241]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 16-77, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for defense 
     articles and services estimated to cost $750 million. After 
     this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a 
     news release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                      J. W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 16-77

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $ 0 million.
       Other $750 million.
       Total $750 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
       Non-MDE includes: Continuation of a blanket order training 
     program inside and outside of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
     that includes, but is not limited to, flight training, 
     technical training, professional military education, 
     specialized training, mobile training teams (MTTs), and 
     English language training. These blanket order training cases 
     will cover all relevant types of training offered by or 
     contracted through the U.S. Air Force or Department of 
     Defense Agencies (DOD), to include participation in CONUS 
     DOD-sponsored education, as well as MTTs that will travel to 
     Saudi Arabia. This training for the Royal Saudi Air Force 
     (RSAF) and other Saudi forces will include such subjects as 
     civilian casualty avoidance, the law of armed conflict, human 
     rights command and control, and targeting via MTTs and/or 
     broader Programs of Instruction (POIs). Program management, 
     trainers, simulators, travel, billeting, and medical support 
     may also be included.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force.
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: FMS Case NFS--$44M, FMS 
     Case NFT--$48M, FMS Case NFU--$82M, FMS Case TGP--$53M, FMS 
     Case THB--$93M, FMS Case THD--$73M, FMS Case THE--$69M, FMS 
     Case THF--$39M, FMS Case THG--$93M.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid. Offered. or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: June 2, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.

[[Page S3241]]

  



                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

                  Saudi Arabia--Blanket Order Training

       The Government of Saudi Arabia requested a possible sale of 
     continued blanket order training program inside and outside 
     of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia that includes, but is not 
     limited to, flight training, technical training, professional 
     military education, specialized training, mobile training 
     teams (MTTs), and English language training. These blanket 
     order training cases cover all relevant types of training 
     offered by or contracted through the U.S. Air Force or 
     Department of Defense (DoD) Agencies, to include 
     participation in CONUS DOD-sponsored education, as well as 
     MTTs that will travel to Saudi Arabia. This training for the 
     Royal Saudi Air Force (RSAF) and other Saudi forces will 
     include such subjects as civilian casualty avoidance, the law 
     of armed conflict, human rights command and control, and 
     targeting via MTTs and/or broader Programs of Instruction 
     (POIs). Program management, trainers, simulators, travel, 
     billeting, and medical support may also be included. The 
     estimated program cost is $750 million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security of the United States by helping to 
     improve the security of an important partner which has been 
     and continues to be a leading contributor of political 
     stability and economic progress in the Middle East.
       This training would support the United States' continued 
     commitment to Saudi Arabia's security and strengthen the 
     U.S.-Saudi Arabia strategic partnership. Assisting the RSAF 
     supports Saudi Arabia in deterring hostile actions and 
     increases U.S.-Saudi Arabia military interoperability. It 
     also helps their ability to work with coalition partners 
     during training, exercises, and operations. Saudi Arabia will 
     have no difficulty absorbing this training and support.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     representatives to Saudi Arabia.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale. All defense articles/
     services have been approved for release.

                          ____________________



