

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5239]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   CARIBBEAN AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
the Virgin Islands (Ms. Plaskett) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I only have 5 minutes to do justice to a 
great people, and it is with great honor that I rise today to speak on 
issues impacting the Caribbean and the contributions of the people of 
Caribbean heritage to the American fabric.
  On June 6, 2006, President George Bush signed a proclamation that was 
ushered through this House by Congresswoman Barbara Lee, H. Con. Res. 
71, naming June Caribbean American Heritage Month. June allows us to 
highlight the many contributions of Caribbean Americans to the United 
States.
  The campaign to designate June as National Caribbean American 
Heritage Month was spearheaded by Dr. Claire Nelson, founder and 
president of the Institute of Caribbean Studies. Through the 
commemoration of this month, we hope to ensure that America is reminded 
that its greatness lies in its diversity, with Caribbean immigrants 
from Founding Father Alexander Hamilton, sports icon Tim Duncan, and 
journalist Malcolm Gladwell, who have and continue to shape the 
American Dream.
  The Caribbean region was created through violence and trauma, from 
the exploration and annihilation by Columbus and his Spanish backers on 
the native people to the French, English, Dutch, Danish, and American 
use of African, Indian, and others to create income wealth in their 
nations.
  The sweat, labor, and king sugar of the Caribbean people have shaped 
this and other nations. Our rebellion, innovation, and ingenuity, as 
well as our independent intellectual intensity, have benefited this and 
other countries.
  As one of the pillars of American patriotism and democracy, Alexander 
Hamilton was born in Nevis, and raised and educated on the island of 
St. Croix, where he learned the theories and financial methods of the 
English, Danes, as well as the West African counting system that 
created not just the foundation of our financial system, but our 
Federalist ideas.
  During that same time, Caribbean financiers assisted the American 
Revolution and gave courage through the example of the tremendous 
victory of the Haitian people over the French, British, and Spanish 
armies.
  But the contributions of Caribbean Americans to the making of America 
didn't stop with those heroics. The massive migration of Caribbean 
people to the United States of America, during the early 20th century, 
gave us another opportunity to make our impact upon the liberation 
process that was taking place in this country through politics and the 
arts.
  Who doesn't know Hubert Harrison and Edward Wilmot Blyden, 
intellectuals of the Harlem Renaissance? Marcus Garvey, Cicely Tyson, 
Malcolm X, and Harry Belafonte are all of Caribbean heritage and have 
personified the enormous dignity, revolutionary spirit, and unyielding 
intellectual gravitas and sense of self worth that hallmarks Caribbean 
people and has supported the African diaspora pride during times when 
those attributes would be desired to be denied by others in this 
country.
  We continue to contribute to this country in many ways. Secretary of 
State Colin Powell is of Jamaican heritage; Attorney General Eric 
Holder, Barbados; Senator Kamala Harris, Jamaica; and former Governor 
David Paterson's family is from Grenada.
  We see many of them in great places. As a result, we all have 
families and friends who have emigrated to the north and contribute to 
the social, political, educational, and economic prosperity of the 
United States.
  Who doesn't know Beyonce, who is of Bahamian background, who was 
named by Forbes as the most powerful celebrity? We have Gwen Ifill from 
Barbados; and Dr. Patricia Era Bath of Trinidad, who invented the 
Laserphaco Probe for cataract treatment. She is the first Black woman 
doctor to receive a medical patent.
  We have Romany Malco of Trinidad, an actor and comedian; Dr. Marcia 
Roye, who has done research in HIV/AIDS and infectious diseases; as 
well as Camille Wardrop Alleyne of Trinidad, who works for NASA and the 
Department of Defense working on low Earth orbit.
  This list does not scratch the surface of those making their mark in 
the United States. There are so many others that I cannot and do not 
have the time to highlight.
  During this month, we have tried to make others aware of the 
contributions that the Caribbean has. It is not just the contributions 
we have made, but the commitment that this country should have to its 
nearest neighbor, the Caribbean.
  The Caribbean and the United States have shared a long and prolific 
history together. The United States is the largest economic partner of 
the Caribbean; and the Caribbean, that small region, accounts for the 
third largest receiver of American goods.
  The United States needs to act as a buffer to the increased influence 
of China and Venezuela in the Caribbean through economic projects the 
U.S. can continue.
  As a Delegate representing the only district in the English-speaking 
Caribbean, I am committed to working with the Caribbean community.
  To those young Caribbean people, I see you. Be strong and of good 
courage. We are a small people, yet mighty in spirit.

                          ____________________



