

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4920]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             RECOGNIZING NATIONAL CITIZENSHIP DAY OF ACTION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Barragan) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the National 
Citizenship Day of Action on June 17.
  I am a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, but I am also the 
proud daughter of immigrants from Mexico. I understand how important 
citizenship is to families.
  When I was young, I remember watching my mother study for the exam. I 
would help ask her questions and make sure that she knew the history of 
this country so that she could pass, and I remember the day that she 
went in to take her exam and passed. It was a proud moment for our 
family.
  June 17 is a day to encourage not just our colleagues to support 
initiatives to make the citizenship process more accessible to millions 
of people who are pursuing the American Dream but also to go into 
communities and educate them about the importance of citizenship.
  8.8 million people are eligible to become citizens but have not yet 
begun the process, and 3.7 million of those are eligible for 
citizenship fee waivers. Becoming a citizen can cost over $700, and 
there are significant language and access barriers for those who apply. 
I know my aunt had to take it five times because her English wasn't 
good enough, and it took her some time.
  But I encourage those who can, to do it, to make sure that they can 
because legal permanent residents face an uphill battle to citizenship.
  My father was one who actually never became a citizen. My father was 
older, so I never really had an opportunity to ask him why he didn't do 
it, but I see today the importance of it, especially in a day where 
immigrants are under attack, where more and more people who think they 
have a right to be here and have status here may do something that 
causes them to become deportable.
  It is so very important for people, who can become citizens, to take 
that opportunity to do it. It is really a gateway to voting, to 
employment, receiving benefits, and investing in our family's future. 
Citizens receive higher wages, greater economic opportunity, and full 
access to the equal rights that are fundamental to becoming an 
American.
  We should be promoting programs to ensure that these immigrants have 
the skills and the resources they need to learn, succeed, and give back 
to the communities they call home. Organizations like the Coalition for 
Humane Immigrant Rights in Los Angeles are working hard to make 
citizenship more attainable for everyone by providing free citizenship 
services.
  Again, I urge my colleagues to support these efforts on Saturday, 
June 17. Becoming a citizen is just the beginning of the American 
Dream.


               Recognizing Yesterday's Horrific Incident

  Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, I also want to take a moment to recognize 
what occurred yesterday. I actually play for the men's baseball team on 
the Democratic side. I was practicing when we were called in and got 
word of the horrific news. And immediately, about 5 minutes after 
hearing the initial news of just a shooting, we heard that a Member, 
one of ours, was shot, and we immediately went into prayer.
  And I have to take a moment to send my prayers to those who were 
impacted because it is a big group, but also those who were shot, those 
who were on the field. Our hearts and prayers go out to Representative 
Steve Scalise, Matt Mika, Zack Barth, and the courageous actions of the 
Capitol Police, Crystal Griner and David Bailey.
  Every day that I come to the Capitol, I see the men and women who 
serve, who are there to protect us, who are there to make sure to keep 
us safe, and sometimes we take it for granted.
  So I wanted to take a moment to thank them all for their service. 
Tonight is the game at Nationals baseball field. I encourage everybody 
to come out. There couldn't be a better reason. It is for charity, to 
really play tonight for our heroes, to play for a good cause. It would 
be a great thing to see a big showing.
  Last night, we had a bipartisan dinner where we had the two coaches 
from both sides of the aisle come out. Again, I want to stress this is 
not a partisan issue at all. This is a time where we come together, and 
we should remain united.
  It was a tough day yesterday for me and for many of us here on the 
Hill. Come out and show your support. We would love to see you there.

                          ____________________



