

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5300-H5301]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           PLAYER OF THE YEAR

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Logan Aleshire, 
a senior at St. Cloud Tech High School, on recently being named the 
Minnesota High School Class AAA Baseball Player of the Year by the 
Minnesota State High School Baseball Coaches Association.
  Logan is a star athlete, and due to his leadership and skills as a 
pitcher and shortstop, he helped lead his team to an undefeated season 
in this year's State tournament.
  Logan excelled on the field this year, but we have known about him 
for a while. In fact, he has been a three-time All-Central Lakes 
Conference pick, and just last year he was a Times Baseball All-Area 
Team selection.
  While his high school baseball career is coming to a close, I have no 
doubt we will see great things from this young man both athletically 
and scholastically in the future. We look forward to seeing what he 
will accomplish next.


                       A Farm Family to Celebrate

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Kreitlow and 
Ford family on being recently named the 2017 Farm Family of the Year.
  Built in 1898, the Kreitlow farm has been passed from generation to 
generation for more than a century, with each generation teaching the 
next about hard work and successful farming. Today, the Kreitlow farm 
is successfully operated by Willard Kreitlow, his daughter Marienne, 
and her husband Jerry Ford.
  The farm was once a dairy operation, but since 1990, the farm has 
mainly become a vegetable and pasture operation. However, the work the 
Kreitlow and Ford family has accomplished goes far beyond the fresh 
produce they harvest. In fact, this hardworking family goes above and 
beyond by striving to educate others through their work with the 
Sustainable Farming Association of Minnesota.
  I want to thank the Kreitlow and Ford family for not only providing 
quality food for Minnesotans, but also for educating others about the 
benefits of sustainable farming and giving back to their community. Our 
State is a healthier place because of their dedicated work.


                        50 Years of Giving Back

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank the United Way of 
Central Minnesota for helping families throughout our communities 
escape poverty for an incredible 50 years.
  Over the past half century, the United Way of Central Minnesota has 
raised more than $100 million, allowing them to help fund other 
nonprofits who provide services that help Minnesota families in need.
  It is largely because of the generous contributions from the United 
Way of Central Minnesota that the Boys and Girls Club of Central 
Minnesota was able to get off the ground in the 1970s and to be able to 
grow into what it is today.
  Thankfully, the United Way of Central Minnesota continues to grow 
strong. In fact, they recently announced their latest partnership with 
the St. Cloud School District to create neighborhood resource centers 
for students and their families. It is inspiring to see an organization 
solely devoted to helping others. Sometimes when someone is down on 
their luck, all it takes is a helping hand to get them back on their 
feet.
  On behalf of thousands of Minnesotans, I would like to thank the 
United Way of Central Minnesota for being that helping hand for the 
past 50 years, and we look forward to many successful years to come.

[[Page H5301]]

  

                          ____________________



