

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2796]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Scott 
Gottlieb, of Connecticut, to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs, 
Department of Health and Human Services.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from South Dakota.


                     Confirmation of Heather Wilson

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I am honored to speak tonight after casting 
my vote to confirm Dr. Heather Wilson as Secretary of the Air Force. I 
have known Heather for nearly 20 years and submit that President Trump 
could not have selected a more qualified candidate to lead the Air 
Force in these demanding times. I am pleased that the Senate was 
finally able to confirm her nomination, and I wish her great success.
  As an Air Force veteran, former Member of Congress, and most recently 
the leader of one of the top science and engineering schools, the South 
Dakota School of Mines and Technology, Dr. Wilson has repeatedly 
demonstrated leadership abilities that will serve her and the Air Force 
well in this next chapter.
  Her commitment to duty links back to her time as a cadet at the Air 
Force Academy, where she was a distinguished graduate. In fact, she 
will be the Academy's first graduate in history to serve as a Secretary 
of the Air Force. Dr. Wilson went on to serve as an Air Force officer 
in Europe during the Cold War, where she was based in the United 
Kingdom and at the U.S. Mission to NATO in Brussels. Upon leaving the 
Air Force, she served on the National Security Council staff of 
President George H.W. Bush, working on NATO and conventional arms 
control.
  At a time when America's partnerships are being challenged by threats 
around the world, I am confident that her experience will lend a steady 
hand to our military decisionmaking.
  Dr. Wilson will also bring with her great experience honed in the 
Halls of Congress. At the start of her decades-long representation of 
New Mexico's First Congressional District, she quickly became one of 
the go-to Members on national security issues. Heather took on tough 
issues not unlike the ones she will surely face as Secretary of the Air 
Force. Whether on issues of strategic objectives and readiness or 
personnel matters, such as military sexual assault, she is prepared to 
have frank discussions on the issues and will contribute insightful 
proposals on how to best tackle the many challenges facing the Air 
Force. She understands not only the Air Force's key capabilities but 
the perilous outcomes we may face as a nation if we do not properly 
train and fund our military. She knows that rising to meet the 
challenges of the day must be done with an eye to the future so we may 
also deter and defeat the threats of tomorrow.
  At a time when national security is of foremost concern, Dr. Wilson 
understands the Air Force's tremendous responsibility in keeping 
Americans safe and will be guided by the core values of the Force: 
integrity first, service before self, and excellence in all that the 
Air Force does.
  I could not be happier for my friend, Dr. Heather Wilson, and wish 
her and her husband Jay the best of luck. South Dakota and the South 
Dakota School of Mines and Technology are losing an asset, but I am 
confident that the new era of excellence Heather helped usher in leaves 
the school well-positioned to remain a foremost engineering, science, 
and research institution. We are proud of Heather's continued success 
and trust she will represent us well as the 24th Secretary of the Air 
Force.
  I would like to thank my colleague, Chairman McCain, for his work to 
advance Dr. Wilson's nomination through the Senate Armed Services 
Committee and for granting me the opportunity to introduce Dr. Wilson 
at her confirmation hearing. It was my honor to endorse her before the 
committee and to cast my vote in support of her nomination this 
evening. I am glad the Senate has advanced another of President Trump's 
nominees and wish Dr. Wilson, our next Secretary of the Air Force, 
continued wisdom and success as she continues her outstanding 
leadership in service to our country.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.

                          ____________________



