

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5923-H5924]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        AMIA BOMBING ANNIVERSARY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, today I rise to commemorate the 23rd 
anniversary of the bombing in Buenos Aires, Argentina, of the Jewish 
Community Center, also known as AMIA.
  This cowardly terrorist attack killed 85 people, with hundreds more 
injured. Yet, nearly 25 years later, the Jewish community and the 
people of Argentina are still waiting for justice to be served.
  This was an attack perpetrated by Iran and its terror proxy, 
Hezbollah. In fact, these individuals you see here on this poster, 
Madam Speaker, are responsible for the AMIA bombing. We know who they 
are and the damage they caused.
  My friend, Alberto Nisman, was appointed as a special investigator in 
Argentina to look into this terrible bombing. He found clear evidence 
that linked the Iranian regime and Hezbollah to the AMIA attack and the 
attack at the Israel Embassy in Buenos Aires just 2 years earlier, in 
1992. Tragically, on January 19, 2015, just a few hours before he was 
set to produce the evidence to the Argentinian Parliament, Alberto was 
found dead in his apartment under very mysterious circumstances.
  So here we are, another sad anniversary later. Congress can play a 
crucial role in the pursuit of justice for the victims of the embassy 
bombing, the AMIA bombing, and for Alberto's family.
  This past March, along with Chairman Royce, Ranking Member Engel, Ted 
Deutch, Jeff Duncan, and Albio Sires, I introduced H. Res. 201, which 
supports Argentina in its efforts to investigate and hold Iran and 
Hezbollah accountable for these cowardly acts of terror.
  Madam Speaker, today, on the 23rd anniversary of the AMIA bombing, we 
continue to mourn the lives lost on this tragic day, as we strive for 
justice. I urge my colleagues to support my resolution, and I urge this 
body to send a strong message to the Jewish community, the people of 
Argentina, and the Iranian regime that we will not continue to let 
another anniversary pass without taking meaningful action.


                             Ecuador Homes

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, today I rise to commend a 
constituent, Nina Vaca, for the humanitarian effort she has undertaken 
in her home country of Ecuador.
  On April 16, 2016, a 7.8 magnitude earthquake devastated Ecuador. You 
can see the devastation still today. It wrecked entire communities, 
killed hundreds, and left over 25,000 people either injured or 
homeless.
  A year later, Ecuador continues to struggle, with hundreds of 
families still living in tents. Nina has made it her mission to get 
these families back into homes.
  Determined to make a difference, she founded TRI for Homes, with the 
goal of building 40 homes for some of these families. Soon, Nina will 
compete in an IRONMAN triathlon in Ecuador to raise awareness and 
support for her cause.
  I commend Nina for her determination to raise awareness and for 
building homes for Ecuadorian families. I wish her good luck, and we 
will all be rooting for her.


                          Captive Nations Week

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I rise to commemorate this week as 
Captive Nations Week.
  As a Cuban refugee who had to flee my native homeland of Cuba due to 
a murderous communist regime, I know how important freedom, democracy, 
and respect for human rights are. Captive Nations Week serves as a 
reminder that there are millions of people who continue to live under a 
brutal, repressive regime.
  Tomorrow night, on the east steps of the Capitol, I will speak at the 
Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation's Captive Nations Week event 
called No Che Noche to set the record straight on one of history's most 
sadistic murderers, Che Guevara.
  Madam Speaker, our support for those who yearn for freedom and 
democracy should not be limited to just 1 week. I urge my colleagues to 
join those around the world who are suffering under oppressive regimes.

[[Page H5924]]

  We as Americans benefit greatly, and we can do more to make sure that 
others get the same rights and freedoms we enjoy in this great country.

                          ____________________



