

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H3002-H3003]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. AGUILAR:
       H.R. 2258. A bill to require that certain standards for 
     commercial driver's licenses applicable to former members of 
     the armed services or reserves also apply to current members 
     of the armed services or reserves; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Kennedy):
       H.R. 2259. A bill to amend the Peace Corps Act to expand 
     services and benefits for volunteers, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, and Education 
     and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL:
       H.R. 2260. A bill to improve college affordability; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself and Mr. 
             Buchanan):
       H.R. 2261. A bill to improve the ability of the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Coast Guard, and 
     coastal States to sustain healthy ocean and coastal 
     ecosystems by maintaining and sustaining their capabilities 
     relating to oil spill preparedness, prevention, response, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on Natural 
     Resources, and Science, Space, and Technology, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Meeks, 
             Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Lee, Mr. McEachin, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Bishop 
             of Georgia, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             and Mr. Richmond):
       H.R. 2262. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     require certain consumer reporting agencies to include a 
     credit score when providing consumers with a free annual 
     consumer report; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico, Mrs. Radewagen, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. 
             Sablan, and Ms. Plaskett):
       H.R. 2263. A bill to provide for greater transparency and 
     information with respect to Federal expenditures under the 
     Medicaid and CHIP programs in the territories of the United 
     States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Matsui, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Doggett, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Schrader, 
             Mrs. Bustos, and Ms. Tenney):
       H.R. 2264. A bill to improve the competitiveness of United 
     States manufacturing by designating and supporting 
     manufacturing communities; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself and Mr. 
             Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 2265. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow small businesses to defer the payment of 
     certain employment taxes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Marino, 
             and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 2266. A bill to amend title 28 of the United States 
     Code to authorize the appointment of additional bankruptcy 
     judges; and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself and Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 2267. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for the distribution of additional 
     residency positions, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself, Mrs. Wagner, 
             Mr. Kinzinger, and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 2268. A bill to authorize the Administrator of the 
     Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention of the 
     Department of Justice to award grants to local educational 
     agencies to establish, expand, and support programs to train 
     school staff to recognize and respond to signs of labor and 
     sex trafficking and to provide classroom curricula to 
     students on how to avoid becoming victims of labor and sex 
     trafficking; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mr. 
             Peters):
       H.R. 2269. A bill to require the Administration of General 
     Services to issue guidance relating to the procurement of 
     reclaimed refrigerants; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, and Mr. Roskam):
       H.R. 2270. A bill to amend section 437(d) of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 to provide for repayment by the 
     Secretary of loans to parents of disabled students; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 2271. A bill to permit employees to request, and to 
     ensure employers consider requests for, flexible work terms 
     and conditions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, House 
     Administration, and the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Pascrell, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Beyer, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Sires, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mrs. Demings, Ms. Meng, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Norcross, 
             and Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 2272. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf 
     Lands Act to permanently prohibit the conduct of offshore 
     drilling on the outer Continental Shelf in the Mid-Atlantic, 
     South Atlantic, North Atlantic, and Straits of Florida 
     planning areas; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Calvert, Mr. 
             Cooper, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Wagner, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Wittman, Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. O'Rourke, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 2273. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     exclude cannabidiol and cannabidiol-rich plants from the 
     definition of marihuana, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PETERS:
       H.R. 2274. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to provide 
     for extended periods relating to preliminary permits and 
     commencement of construction, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POLIS:
       H.R. 2275. A bill to require employers to provide pay 
     stubs, codify the Executive order relating to Government 
     contracting, provide greater oversight of executive 
     compensation and restrictions on sales of stocks, clarify the 
     definition of a supervisor, and enhance penalties for 
     violations of workforce safety and standards; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Financial Services, and Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. RICE of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Cartwright, and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 2276. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for treatment of audiologists as 
     physicians for purposes of furnishing audiology services 
     under the Medicare program, to improve access to the 
     audiology services available for coverage under the Medicare 
     program and to enable beneficiaries to have their choice of a 
     qualified audiologist to provide such services, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the

[[Page H3003]]

     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER:
       H.R. 2277. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to prohibit Members of Congress from receiving a 
     discounted price in certain private offerings of securities; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 2278. A bill to extend the authorization of the 
     Uranium Mill Tailing Radiation Control Act of 1978 relating 
     to the disposal site in Mesa County, Colorado; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. TSONGAS (for herself, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Moulton, and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 2279. A bill to award a gold medal on behalf of the 
     Congress to the U.S. Air Forces Escape and Evasion Society, 
     in recognition of the ceaseless efforts of American aircrew 
     members to escape captivity and evade capture by the enemy 
     forces in occupied countries during our foreign wars, and the 
     brave resistance organizations and patriotic nationals of 
     those foreign countries who assisted them; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     House Administration, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H. Res. 300. A resolution encouraging greater public-
     private sector collaboration to promote financial literacy 
     for students and young adults; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself and Mr. Joyce of 
             Ohio):
       H. Res. 301. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of May 30 as ``National Bartter Syndrome Day''; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. VEASEY:
       H. Res. 302. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of May 2017 as ``Health and Fitness Month''; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



