

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4508]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         CELEBRATING 100 YEARS OF THE LIONS CLUB INTERNATIONAL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak 
about an organization that is near and dear to my heart, the Lions 
Clubs International. I am a member of my hometown organization, the 
Howard Area Lions Club. I am proud that for many years it has been the 
largest Lions Club in Pennsylvania, despite being in a very rural area. 
Last year marked our club's 40th anniversary.
  The Howard Area Lions Club has consistently earned the recognition as 
the largest Lions Club in Pennsylvania. There are probably many factors 
that have led them to this title, but none more significant than their 
commitment to the Lions Club motto: We serve. The members of this club 
have served as the chartering organization for the Howard Scout Troop 
353. I have been honored to serve as a Scoutmaster of that troop since 
they first assumed this responsibility.
  The idea of the Lions Club began 100 years ago in Chicago. A 38-year-
old businessman named Melvin Jones told members of the local business 
club that they should reach beyond their business issues and address 
the betterment of their communities and the world, and they agreed. 
Three years later, the Lions Club became an international organization. 
Melvin Jones inspired generations of people to become civic-minded 
individuals dedicated to using their talents and their ambition to 
improve their communities without financial reward. Melvin Jones had a 
personal code: ``You can't get very far until you start doing something 
for somebody else.''
  Well, the Lions Club redoubled its commitment to help others when a 
young advocate for the disabled spoke at the 1925 Lions Clubs 
International convention. This woman challenged the Lions to become 
``knights of the blind in the crusade against darkness.'' Of course, 
this woman was Helen Keller.
  Helen Keller developed a fever at 18 months of age that left her 
blind and deaf. After working with an exceptional teacher, Helen Keller 
learned sign language and braille, and a few years later she learned to 
speak.
  The Lions accepted Helen Keller's challenge and ever since have 
worked on several projects to prevent blindness, restore eyesight, and 
improve eye care for folks all around the world. Sight became one of 
the Lions' defining causes. Many are familiar with its eyeglasses 
recycling program where individuals can donate reading glasses they no 
longer need.
  Mr. Speaker, service to others is what makes Lions Clubs 
International such a powerful force of good in the world. I am grateful 
that Lions Clubs around the globe serve millions annually. I am so 
proud to be a member of an organization that not only lives up to its 
remarkable ideals but exceeds them time and time again.
  Congratulations to the Lions Clubs International on their centennial 
anniversary.

                          ____________________



