

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5889]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          RECOGNIZING APPOINTEES TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Farenthold) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, every year, I have the pleasure of 
nominating outstanding young men and women from the 27th Congressional 
District of Texas to the United States military service academies.
  Recently, I held a lunch for this year's ten appointees and their 
families, who have received an appointment to one of the five service 
academies. I enjoyed visiting with these young folks and their families 
and would like to recognize each of them for their commitment to 
protect our great Nation.
  They are:
  Jose Aguirre, from Corpus Christi, Texas, a 2017 graduate of Foy H. 
Moody High School, who will attend the United States Naval Academy;
  Aaron Jeffrey Frahm, from Corpus Christi, Texas, a 2017 graduate from 
Marine Military Academy, who will attend the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy;
  Specialist David Zane Ledbetter, United States Army, from Victoria, 
Texas, a graduate of Victoria West High School, who will attend the 
U.S. Military Academy, West Point;
  Kaila Celiene Lusson, from Corpus Christi, Texas, a 2017 graduate of 
Aviano High School, Aviano Air Base, Italy, who will attend the Air 
Force Academy;
  Caleb Michael McCann, from Sinton, Texas, a 2016 graduate of Flour 
Bluff High School, who will attend the Air Force Academy;
  John T. McNiff, from Corpus Christi, Texas, a 2017 graduate of 
Incarnate Word Academy, who will attend the U.S. Coast Guard Academy;
  Kalista Courtney Schauer, from Corpus Christi, Texas, a 2017 graduate 
of Richard King High School, who will attend the U.S. Military Academy, 
West Point;
  Clayton Daley Thompson, from Corpus Christi, Texas, a 2016 graduate 
of Flour Bluff High School, who will attend the United States Naval 
Academy;
  Cassandra Hamer, from Corpus Christi, Texas, a 2017 graduate of 
Richard King High School, who will attend the U.S. Coast Guard Academy; 
and
  Josh Smith, from Victoria, Texas, a 2017 graduate of Victoria West 
High School, who will attend the United States Air Force Academy.
  Each of them brings great pride to all of us in the 27th District of 
Texas. I wish them the best of luck in their academies, and I look 
forward to hearing great things about their service to our Nation.


                         Recognizing Drew Scott

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I was walking along the Cannon tunnel 
and was looking at all of the art from the Congressional Art 
Competition. As Members know, each year, thousands of high school 
students from every congressional district submit their artwork to 
their Member of Congress for the annual Congressional Art Competition. 
Helping inspire these young people to become active in the things they 
are passionate about, like art, is one of my favorite parts of my job.
  Today, I would like to recognize Drew Scott, the winner of this 
year's Congressional Art Competition for the 27th District of Texas. 
She is a junior at Rockport-Fulton High School, and she won this year's 
contest with an original colored pencil drawing ``Complimentary 
Calico.'' It is a drawing of one of her friend's cats.
  Earlier this year, I visited Rockport-Fulton High School to announce 
Drew as the winner, and I recently had the pleasure of hosting Drew and 
her family when they traveled to Washington for the unveiling of her 
artwork in the Cannon tunnel.
  I thank everyone who submitted their artwork for this year's 
competition. It was an extremely hard decision for the judges. And 
congratulations to Drew. I look forward to seeing next year's entrants. 
I would like to encourage all high school students to participate in 
this wonderful opportunity.

                          ____________________



