

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5359]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   RECOGNIZING THE 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF HONG KONG'S TRANSFER TO CHINA

  (Ms. PELOSI asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, in 1984, before the United Kingdom handed 
Hong Kong over to China, the Chinese Government promised ``a high 
degree of autonomy'' for the territory in the Joint Declaration on the 
Question of Hong Kong: providing for an independent executive, 
legislature, and judiciary; ensuring the freedom of speech, press, 
assembly, and religion; prohibiting the central government from 
interfering into the affairs that Hong Kong administers on its own 
according to the Basic Law; and pledging a path to universal suffrage.
  In 1997, when the handover occurred, America was hopeful that the 
people of Hong Kong would achieve the free, democratic future they 
deserved. But 2 decades later, we see China's promise of ``one country, 
two systems'' is not being met. The Chinese have not honored that 
promise, and the British Government has ignored it.
  Since 2014's ``Umbrella Revolution,'' the people of Hong Kong have 
faced a barrage of unjust and harsh restrictions on their freedoms. 
Hong Kong's pro-Beijing government is slapping democratically elected 
opposition lawmakers with expensive lawsuits in a backhanded attempt to 
disqualify them from their seats.
  Peaceful activists are being rounded up and detained by the hundreds 
for exercising their right to protest the new government.
  Five booksellers were abducted, smuggled across the border to China 
and forced to confess--so-called confess--their so-called crimes on 
national television, simply because their employer sold books critical 
of Beijing.
  And, just this week, the democracy activists and heroes of the 
``Umbrella Movement,'' Joshua Wong and Nathan Law, were arrested while 
peacefully protesting the visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping, where 
they unfurled a banner in support of Liu Xiaobo.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to commend this body, especially our colleague, 
Congressman Chris Smith of New Jersey, for the resolution that he put 
forth earlier, a resolution that recognized Liu Xiaobo's contribution 
to democratic freedoms as a global hero, and urging the Chinese 
Government to allow him to seek medical care wherever, including in the 
United States.
  In mainland China, Mr. Speaker, the Chinese Government continues to 
jail journalists, human rights lawyers, those fighting to practice 
their own religion, and democracy activists at an alarming rate. And 
the Chinese Government is brutally trying to erase the religion, 
culture, and language of the Tibetan people.
  America has a moral duty to speak out in defense of the legitimate 
political aspirations of the people of Hong Kong. If we do not speak 
out for human rights in China because of economic concerns, then we 
lose all moral authority to talk about human rights in any other place 
in the world.
  As we mark this solemn 20th anniversary, we must stand up for all who 
are demanding the promises of ``one country, two systems'' be honored.


                        INTRO--JOINT DECLARATION

  In 1984, before the United Kingdom handed over Hong Kong to China, 
the Chinese government promised `a high degree of autonomy' for the 
territory in the Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong:
  --providing for an independent executive, legislature and judiciary;
  --ensuring the freedom of speech, press, assembly and religion;
  --prohibiting the central government from interfering in the affairs 
that Hong Kong administers on its own according to the Basic Law;
  --and pledging a path to universal suffrage.
  In 1997, when the handover occurred, America was hopeful that the 
people of Hong Kong would achieve the free, democratic future they 
deserved.
  But two decades later, we see China's promise of `one country, two 
systems' is not being met. The Chinese have not honored that promise, 
and the British have ignored it.


                            RECENT CRACKDOWN

  Since 2014's `Umbrella Revolution,' the people of Hong Kong have 
faced a barrage of unjust and harsh restrictions on their freedoms.
  Hong Kong's pro-Beijing government is slapping democratically-elected 
opposition lawmakers with expensive lawsuits in a backhanded attempt to 
disqualify them from their seats.
  Peaceful activists are being rounded up and detained by the hundreds 
for exercising their right to protest the new government.
  Five booksellers were abducted, smuggled across the border to China 
and forced to confess their so-called crimes on national television--
simply because their employer sold books critical of Beijing.


                              WONG ARREST

  And, just this week, the democracy activists and heroes of the 
`Umbrella Movement', Joshua Wong and Nathan Law, were arrested while 
peacefully protesting the visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping--where 
they unfurled a banner in support of Liu Xiaobo.
  This egregious attempt at smothering free speech is alarming, illegal 
and deserves the swift condemnation of the international community.
  We must honor the protestors' chant--`the world is watching'--and 
condemn the arrest of Wong and the other demonstrators.
  Unfortunately, Beijing shows absolutely zero signs of ceasing its 
aggressive campaign of intimidation against democracy and human rights 
activists.


                                 Close

  In Mainland China, the Chinese government continues to jail 
journalists, human rights lawyers, those fighting to practice their own 
religion and democracy activists at an alarming rate.
  And the Chinese Government is brutally trying to erase the religion, 
culture and language of the Tibetan people.
  America has a moral duty to speak out in defense of the legitimate 
political aspirations of the people of Hong Kong.
  If we do not speak out for human rights in China because of economic 
concerns, then we lose all moral authority to talk about human rights 
in any other place in the world.
  As we mark this solemn anniversary, we must stand up for all those 
who are demanding the promises of `one country, two systems' be 
honored.

                          ____________________



