

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3857-S3858]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and Mr. Corker):
       S. 1472. A bill to reauthorize the Tennessee Civil War 
     Heritage Area; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 1473. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for a five-year extension to the homeless veterans 
     reintegration programs and to provide clarification regarding 
     eligibility for services under such programs; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms. Harris, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Durbin, Mr. Carper, and Mr. Sanders):
       S. 1474. A bill to prohibit the use of fiscal year 2018 
     funds for the closure, consolidation, or elimination of 
     certain offices of the Environmental Protection Agency; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1475. A bill to provide for the identification and 
     documentation of best practices for cyber hygiene by the 
     National Institute of Standards and Technology, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. CARDIN:
       S. 1476. A bill to safeguard the United States and our 
     allies from Russian ballistic and cruise missile threats, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 1477. A bill to prohibit the use of official time for 
     labor organizing activities by employees of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs unless all veterans seeking hospital care or 
     medical services from the Department are able to schedule 
     their appointments within the wait-time goals of the Veterans 
     Health Administration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Inhofe):
       S. 1478. A bill to improve the Defense Siting 
     Clearinghouse; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 1479. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     improve the supplemental agricultural disaster assistance 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. KING (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Mr. Merkley, and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 1480. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to include biomass heating appliances for tax credits 
     available for energy-efficient building property and energy 
     property; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1481. A bill to make technical corrections to the Alaska 
     Native Claims Settlement Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1482. A bill to provide a permanent easement to the 
     Shishmaref Native Corporation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1483. A bill to establish an account for amounts due to 
     Shee Atika Incorporated under the Cube Cove Land Agreement, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1484. A bill to provide for a land exchange relating to 
     the Admiralty Island National Monument, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1485. A bill to satisfy certain claims under the Alaska 
     Native Claims Settlement Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1486. A bill to amend the Barrow Gas Field Transfer Act 
     of 1984 with respect to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation 
     sand and gravel resources, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1487. A bill to provide for certain conveyances of 
     surface estate under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 1488. A bill to require full spending of the Harbor 
     Maintenance Trust Fund, to provide for expanded uses of the 
     Fund, and to prevent cargo diversion, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Tester, 
             Mr. Heller, Mr. Young, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Carper, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Reed, Ms. 
             Warren, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1489. A bill to amend section 3312 of title 38, United 
     States Code, to restore Post-9/11 Educational Assistance and 
     other relief for veterans affected by school closures, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1490. A bill to amend the Alaska Native Claims 
     Settlement Act regarding the Nagamut selection, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1491. A bill to amend the Alaska Native Claims 
     Settlement Act with respect to the Native Villages of Haines, 
     Ketchikan, Petersburg, Tenakee, and Wrangell, Alaska, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1492. A bill to establish a Regional Corporation for 
     Natives who are non-residents of Alaska, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1493. A bill to require a study and report identifying 
     the impacts on Chugach Alaska Corporation land that resulted 
     from changes in Federal law or Federal or State land 
     acquisitions in the Chugach region, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1494. A bill to amend the Alaska Native Claims 
     Settlement Act in order to increase the dividend exclusion, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1495. A bill to amend the Alaska Native Claims 
     Settlement Act regarding the treatment of fractional shares 
     of stock by Regional Corporations, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):

[[Page S3858]]

  

       S. 1496. A bill to amend the definition of Village 
     Corporation in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 1497. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     provide a lactation room in public buildings, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Hassan, Ms. Heitkamp, Mrs. Murray, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Booker, and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 1498. A bill to establish in the Smithsonian Institution 
     a comprehensive American women's history museum, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 1499. A bill to increase from $10,000,000,000 to 
     $50,000,000,000 the threshold figure at which regulated 
     depository institutions are subject to direct examination and 
     reporting requirements of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Moran, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             Mr. Perdue, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. Van 
             Hollen):
       S. 1500. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
     to ensure that the reciprocal deposits of an insured 
     depository institution are not considered to be funds 
     obtained by or through a deposit broker, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Young):
       S. 1501. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to support maker education 
     and makerspaces; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1502. A bill to improve passenger vessel security and 
     safety, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. McCain, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Blunt, Mr. Warner, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. 
             Cotton):
       S. 1503. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
     mint coins in recognition of the 60th anniversary of the 
     Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1504. A bill to direct the Attorney General to study 
     issues relating to human trafficking, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. Crapo):
       S. 1505. A bill to provide that silencers be treated the 
     same as firearms accessories; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
       S. 1506. A bill to improve the handling of instances of 
     sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, and stalking at the United States Merchant Marine 
     Academy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, and Mr. 
             Menendez):
       S. 1507. A bill to amend the National Flood Insurance Act 
     of 1968 to allow the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency to provide capitalization grants to States 
     to establish revolving funds to provide funding assistance to 
     reduce flood risks, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Crapo, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Mr. Risch, Mr. Hatch, and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 1508. A bill to amend the Secure Rural Schools and 
     Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 to modify the 
     authorized uses of certain county funds and to extend the 
     deadline for participating counties to initiate projects and 
     obligate funds; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 1509. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to authorize an extension of exclusivity periods 
     for certain drugs that are approved for a new indication for 
     a rare disease or condition, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Cortez Masto, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Udall, 
             Mr. Franken, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 1510. A bill to amend the National Voter Registration 
     Act of 1993 to provide for online voter registration and 
     other changes and to amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
     to improve voting, to require the Election Assistance 
     Commission to study and report on best practices for election 
     cybersecurity and election audits, and to make grants to 
     States to implement those best practices recommended by the 
     Commission; to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. CARDIN:
       S. 1511. A bill to bring stability to the individual 
     insurance market, make insurance coverage more affordable, 
     lower prescription drug prices, and improve Medicaid; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Inhofe, 
             Mr. Barrasso, and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 1512. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of Energy, the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the 
     Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Transportation, 
     and the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality from 
     considering, in taking any action, the social cost of carbon, 
     the social cost of methane, the social cost of nitrous oxide, 
     or the social cost of any other greenhouse gas, unless 
     compliant with Office of Management and Budget guidance, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Tester, Ms. Stabenow, 
             Mr. Carper, Mr. Udall, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. 
             Cochran):
       S. 1513. A bill to reauthorize and amend the National Fish 
     and Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act; to the Committee 
     on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Boozman, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Capito, and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 1514. A bill to amend certain Acts to reauthorize those 
     Acts and to increase protections for wildlife, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 1515. A bill to facilitate access to university 
     technical expertise in support of Department of Defense 
     missions; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 1516. A bill to expand health care choices by allowing 
     Americans to buy health care coverage across State lines; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Cornyn, 
             and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1517. A bill to enhance the Human Exploitation Rescue 
     Operations Act of 2015, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



