

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3728]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO MAUREEN RILEY

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to a remarkable 
leader in the airport industry, Maureen Riley, who is retiring on June 
30. Maureen is not only an accomplished businesswoman, but also a well-
respected collaborator who had the vision and tenacity to get a $3.1 
billion airport redevelopment program off the ground at Salt Lake City 
International Airport.
  For more than 30 years, Maureen's professional life has been marked 
by many significant achievements in the airport industry. She has 
distinguished herself as a trusted consultant for numerous airports 
across the country. She has also served as deputy executive director at 
Orlando International Airport and, most recently, as executive director 
for the Salt Lake City Department of Airports.
  Maureen believes in collaboration and sharing information to create 
better operating results. She has served in top leadership positions 
for the Airports Council International-North America, ACI-NA, a trade 
association of airports around the globe. She also served as a member 
of the ACI World Board of Directors for 4 years.
  I first met Maureen after she took over the helm at Salt Lake City's 
Department of Airports, a position she has served in for more than a 
decade. During this time, Maureen guided the airport through the 
planning, financing, and now construction of the $3.1 billion airport 
redevelopment program.
  Maureen is an exceptional manager who can be credited with gaining 
approval from the airlines to construct the new airport, which is 
paramount to the success of Utah's economy. She has the unique ability 
to bring people together and has been able to persuade the airlines, 
architects, financers, and construction teams to get the construction 
program off the ground. Maureen never backs away from a challenge and 
does what is necessary to keep a project on track and on budget. She is 
well respected by her colleagues and is known as being a tough 
negotiator. As one airline executive once told Maureen, ``It is hard to 
resist your reasonableness.''
  Maureen is passionate about providing excellent customer service to 
airport passengers. She is committed to seeing that a project is done 
right the first time and is not afraid of saying no when a project or 
proposal does not make sense. Maureen is also committed to promoting 
women in the workforce and encourages the use of gender-neutral 
language in meetings by contractors, consultants, and staff.
  Maureen has been the driving force to ensure the airport 
redevelopment program leaves a positive lasting impression on 
passengers and meets Salt Lake City's passenger growth well into the 
future.
  Maureen Riley is leaving a lasting legacy as she steps down from her 
position with the Salt Lake City Department of Airports. I want to wish 
Maureen well in her retirement and send my best wishes to her and her 
family on this momentous occasion.

                          ____________________



