

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4673-S4674]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SENATE RESOLUTION 241--SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL 
                      PURPLE HEART RECOGNITION DAY

  Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. Manchin, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Tester, Ms. 
Warren, Mr. Markey, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Cochran, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Peters, 
Mrs. Capito, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Franken, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Hatch, Mr. 
Kennedy, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Thune, Mr. Moran, Mr. Daines, Mr. 
Rounds, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Risch, Mr. Booker, Mr. Young, Mr. 
Van Hollen, Mr. Heller, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Donnelly, and Mrs. Feinstein) 
submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to:
  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a resolution 
supporting the goals and ideals of National Purple Heart Recognition 
Day. I am pleased to have been joined in sponsoring this resolution by 
the senior Senator from West Virginia, Senator Manchin, and 25 of our 
Senate colleagues.
  The Purple Heart's history goes as far back as the founding of our 
Nation. General George Washington established what is now known as the 
Purple Heart Medal when he issued an order establishing the Military 
Badge of Merit on August 7, 1782. General Washington wished for the 
award to be used to recognize meritorious action performed by members 
of the Continental Army, and it took the form of a purple heart.
  The Military Badge of Merit was discontinued after the Revolution and 
was not revived until 1932, when the Purple Heart medal was authorized 
as its official successor decoration. On February 22, 1932, the 200th 
Anniversary of the birth of George Washington, then-Army Chief of Staff 
General Douglas MacArthur resurrected the award, and it was 
redesignated as the Purple Heart. Quite appropriately, this 
reestablished Purple Heart Medal exhibits the bust and profile of 
George Washington.
  It is around this time that the Purple Heart became synonymous with 
those unfortunate heroes who were killed or wounded in combat. Since 
1932, the U.S. Military has awarded more than 1.8 million Purple 
Hearts.
  Mr. President, just as the Purple Heart Medal has held a special 
meaning to its millions of recipients and their families, it also has 
special significance to my family. My father is a World War II veteran 
who was wounded twice during the Battle of the Bulge in Europe. He 
earned two Purple Hearts and the Bronze Star, and it was from him that 
I first learned to honor and respect our veterans.
  The Purple Heart is a reminder that freedom is a gift purchased at 
the greatest possible price, and it is for that reason that I introduce 
this resolution. It is vitally important for all Americans to learn the 
history of this important military award, and understand and honor the 
sacrifices of the many men and women in uniform who have earned the 
Purple Heart. I am grateful to all of my colleagues who joined me in 
supporting this resolution.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.
  There being no objection: the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                              S. Res. 241

       Whereas, on August 7, 1782, during the Revolutionary War, 
     General George Washington established what is now known as 
     the Purple Heart Medal when he issued an order establishing 
     the Badge of Military Merit;
       Whereas the Badge of Military Merit was designed in the 
     shape of a heart in purple cloth or silk;
       Whereas, while the award of the Badge of Military Merit 
     ceased with the end of the Revolutionary War, the Purple 
     Heart Medal was authorized in 1932 as the official successor 
     decoration to the Badge of Military Merit;
       Whereas the Purple Heart Medal is the oldest United States 
     military decoration in present use;
       Whereas the Purple Heart Medal is awarded in the name of 
     the President of the United States to recognize members of 
     the Armed Forces who are killed or wounded in action against 
     an enemy of the United States or are killed or wounded while 
     held as prisoners of war;
       Whereas the Purple Heart Medal has been awarded to an 
     estimated 1,800,000 recipients; and
       Whereas August 7, 2017, is an appropriate day to celebrate 
     as National Purple Heart Recognition Day: Now, therefore, be 
     it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) supports the goals and ideals of National Purple Heart 
     Recognition Day; and

[[Page S4674]]

       (2) encourages all people of the United States--
       (A) to learn about the history of the Purple Heart Medal;
       (B) to honor recipients of the Purple Heart Medal; and
       (C) to conduct appropriate ceremonies, activities, and 
     programs to demonstrate support for people who have been 
     awarded the Purple Heart Medal.

                          ____________________



