

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4480-H4483]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BLUE CAMPAIGN AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 1370) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require 
the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue Department of Homeland 
Security-wide guidance and develop training programs as part of the 
Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign, and for other purposes, 
as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1370

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland 
     Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. ENHANCED DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY COORDINATION 
                   THROUGH THE BLUE CAMPAIGN.

       (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title IV of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 231 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 434. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BLUE CAMPAIGN.

       ``(a) In General.--There is authorized in the Department a 
     unified, anti-human trafficking campaign to be known as the 
     `Blue Campaign'. As part of the Blue Campaign, the Secretary 
     shall--
       ``(1) issue Department-wide guidance to appropriate 
     personnel of the Department;
       ``(2) develop training programs for such personnel; and
       ``(3) coordinate departmental efforts, including training 
     for such personnel.
       ``(b) Guidance and Training.--The Blue Campaign shall 
     provide guidance and training to appropriate personnel of the 
     Department regarding the following:
       ``(1) Programs for such personnel, as well as Federal, 
     State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement 
     entities, to help identify instances of human trafficking and 
     potential connections to terrorist activities, including 
     along the borders of the United States.
       ``(2) Systematic and routine information sharing between 
     and among the components of the Department and the National 
     Network of Fusion Centers regarding individuals suspected or 
     convicted of human trafficking and patterns and practices of 
     human trafficking and potential connections to terrorist 
     activities, including along the borders of the United States.
       ``(3) Techniques to identify suspected victims of 
     trafficking along the borders of the United States.
       ``(4) Techniques specifically for Transportation Security 
     Administration personnel to--

[[Page H4481]]

       ``(A) identify suspected victims of trafficking at airport 
     security; and
       ``(B) serve as a liaison and resource to aviation workers 
     and the traveling public.
       ``(5) Utilizing resources to educate partners and 
     stakeholders and increase public awareness of human 
     trafficking, such as indicator cards, fact sheets, pamphlets, 
     posters, brochures, and radio and television campaigns.
       ``(6) Leveraging partnerships with governmental, non-
     governmental, and private sector organizations at the State 
     and local levels to raise public awareness of human 
     trafficking and potential connections to terrorist 
     activities, including along the borders of the United States.
       ``(7) Any other activities determined necessary by the 
     Secretary as part of the Blue Campaign.
       ``(c) Definition.--In this section, the term `human 
     trafficking' means an act or practice described in paragraph 
     (9) or (10) of section 103 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).''.
       (b) Information Technology Systems.--Not later than one 
     year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that, consistent 
     with the Department of Homeland Security-wide guidance 
     required under subsection (a) of section 434 of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (as added by subsection (a) of this 
     section), information technology systems utilized within the 
     Department to record and track information regarding 
     individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking (as 
     such term is defined in such section 434) are capable of 
     systematic and routine information sharing.
       (c) Oversight.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate on the status 
     and effectiveness of the Blue Campaign.
       (d) Authorization.--For each of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022, $819,000 is authorized to carry out section 434 of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (a) of 
     this section.
       (e) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after 
     the item relating to section 433 the following new item:

``Sec. 434. Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. McCaul) and the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Vela) each will 
control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas (Mr. McCaul).


                             General Leave

  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my bill, H.R. 1370, to 
combat human trafficking. According to the FBI, human trafficking, 
which includes forced labor, domestic servitude, and commercial sex 
trafficking, is the third largest criminal activity in the world. It is 
a multibillion-dollar industry that enslaves 20 million innocent 
victims around the world.
  We need a collaborative multiagency approach to combat this criminal 
activity. My bill recognizes and supports the work of the Department of 
Homeland Security to join these partners to combat this scourge on our 
society. This bill authorizes a vital lifesaving campaign at the 
Department to prevent human trafficking.
  This campaign is called the Blue Campaign. It is a Department-wide 
effort to conduct outreach and raise awareness of trafficking. It 
provides training and materials to those in the best position to 
identify trafficking victims. This campaign works in collaboration with 
law enforcement, governmental and private organizations to identify and 
save those victims.
  The Blue Campaign has entered into agreements to provide training, 
raise awareness, and combat human trafficking. Currently, it enlists 
the help of numerous organizations who have witnessed trafficking such 
as airlines, hotels, truck stops, convenient stores, and package 
delivery services.
  The Department uses the resources and expertise of the CBP, ICE, 
USCIS, and the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers to help with 
this effort. Of note, my bill adds the Transportation Security 
Administration to this fight by training its personnel to recognize the 
victims of trafficking and pull these victims out of its viscous cycle.
  My bill also requires the Department to share information on patterns 
of trafficking and possible connections with terrorist activity, both 
internally and with the National Network of Fusion Centers.
  In 2014, I held a field hearing in Houston, Texas, to address the 
issue of human trafficking in our major cities, and we heard personally 
from the victims their stories of sexual abuse and human trafficking. 
That hearing highlighted the importance of collaboration and community 
involvement in combating this terrible crime. This DHS campaign 
furthers these collaboration efforts.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support this legislation and the 
efforts of the Department to address human trafficking.
  I thank Chairman Goodlatte of the Judiciary Committee for his 
cooperation in bringing this bill to the floor.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                                         House of Representatives,


                                   Committee on the Judiciary,

                                      Washington, DC, May 5, 2017.
     Hon. Michael T. McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security, House of 
         Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman McCaul: I write with respect to H.R. 1370, 
     the ``Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign 
     Authorization Act.'' As a result of your having consulted 
     with us on provisions within H.R. 1370 that fall within the 
     Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on the Judiciary, I 
     forego any further consideration of this bill so that it may 
     proceed expeditiously to the House floor for consideration.
       The Judiciary Committee takes this action with our mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 1370 at 
     this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction over subject 
     matter contained in this or similar legislation and that our 
     committee will be appropriately consulted and involved as 
     this bill or similar legislation moves forward so that we may 
     address any remaining issues in our jurisdiction. Our 
     committee also reserves the right to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees to any House-Senate 
     conference involving this or similar legislation and asks 
     that you support any such request.
       I would appreciate a response to this letter confirming 
     this understanding with respect to H.R. 1370 and would ask 
     that a copy of our exchange of letters on this matter be 
     included your committee report and in the Congressional 
     Record during floor consideration of H.R. 1370.
       Sincerely,
                                                    Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Homeland Security,

                                     Washington, DC, May 11, 2017.
     Hon. Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman, Committee on Judiciary,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Goodlatte: Thank you for your letter 
     regarding H.R. 1370, the ``Department of Homeland Security 
     Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017.'' I appreciate your 
     support in bringing this legislation before the House of 
     Representatives, and accordingly, understand that the 
     Committee on Judiciary will forego further consideration of 
     the bill.
       The Committee on Homeland Security concurs with the mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration of this bill at 
     this time, the Judiciary does not waive any jurisdiction over 
     the subject matter contained in this bill or similar 
     legislation in the future. In addition, should a conference 
     on this bill be necessary, I would support your request to 
     have the Committee on Judiciary represented on the conference 
     committee.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the report and the 
     Congressional Record during consideration of this bill on the 
     House floor. I thank you for your cooperation in this matter.
           Sincerely,
                                                Michael T. McCaul,
                         Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security.

  Mr. VELA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1370, the Department of 
Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017.
  Mr. Speaker, human trafficking is a $32 billion-per-year global 
industry, making it one of the most profitable forms of transnational 
crime with more than 20 million victims worldwide. Each year an 
estimated 17,500 innocent people are trafficked into the United States; 
almost half of those individuals are children.
  Trafficking victims can be of any age, race, gender, or nationality, 
and are largely found in workplaces within the manufacturing, 
agriculture, hospitality, and domestic service industries. Since 2010, 
the mission of the Department of Homeland Security's Blue Campaign has 
been to bring DHS components together with Federal, State,

[[Page H4482]]

and local law enforcement agencies, private industry, and other 
nongovernmental entities to combat human trafficking.
  The Blue Campaign has provided the Department with the necessary 
structure to uniformly train personnel in its components to identify 
and investigate these criminal activities. The Blue Campaign has proven 
an effective mechanism through which DHS and its law enforcement 
partners collaborate to dismantle human trafficking networks across the 
country and bring perpetrators to justice.
  The public awareness and outreach efforts launched through the Blue 
Campaign provide the general public, nongovernmental organizations, and 
private sector entities with tools to be active partners in the Federal 
Government's efforts to assist victims of human trafficking and prevent 
others from being exploited.
  Earlier this year, DHS recognized its partners in the transportation 
and hospitality industries for training their employees and customers 
about how they can help combat human trafficking by identifying the 
signs and reporting suspected incidents.
  Over the years, the program has proven to be an important, 
multifaceted tool that leverages both government and private sector 
resources with the goal of ending the exploitation of vulnerable 
people. H.R. 1370 codifies the important program and emphasizes the 
importance of clear guidance and training for all Blue Campaign 
partners.
  This bill also underscores the importance of timely and routine 
information sharing amongst DHS components to ensure unity of effort in 
preventing and disrupting human trafficking. As a cosponsor of H.R. 
1370, I believe that it is our responsibility as Members of Congress to 
do whatever it takes to stop the illegal and immoral smuggling of 
innocent people into the United States by transnational criminal 
organizations.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my House colleagues to support H.R. 1370, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
South Dakota (Mrs. Noem).
  Mrs. NOEM. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the chairman also for 
bringing up this important issue today.
  Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of H.R. 1370, the Department of 
Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act. A few years ago, law 
enforcement officers in South Dakota placed undercover ads on the 
internet, and they weren't pretending to sell illegal drugs. What they 
were pretending to sell was young girls.
  In less than 2 days, over 100 individuals responded to that ad. Many 
of them were hoping to buy children for sex. Similar operations were 
conducted across the State in following months, and they had similar 
results. Many times, when folks think of human trafficking, they often 
picture a place far away overseas, but the fact is that it is happening 
right here--in our backyards many times.
  Those being targeted are often children, 12 or 14 years old, 
sometimes even younger. They are forced to turn tricks up to 50 times a 
day while their pimps work hard to get them addicted to alcohol and 
drugs so that they can further control them and their lives. It also 
deepens their dependence on their trafficker.
  Last Congress, we passed significant antitrafficking legislation, 
which I am incredibly proud of, but there is still more that needs to 
be done. Time and again, South Dakota advocates tell me that awareness 
remains a challenge, but a challenge that we can work together to 
overcome. That is ultimately the purpose of this legislation that we 
are considering today.
  Through the enhanced Blue Campaign, we can offer Americans from all 
walks of life the information that they need to spot trafficking in 
their backyards. If more people are aware of distress signals and how 
to respond, we can move faster towards ending human trafficking 
together.
  Mr. Speaker, for this reason, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 
1370.
  Mr. VELA. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Poe).
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for bringing up 
this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, this past February, in my hometown of Houston, Texas, we 
hosted the 51st Super Bowl. For most Americans, the Super Bowl is a 
fun-filled day spent with friends, family, and cheering on our favorite 
team. But for human traffickers, the Super Bowl has become an annual 
opportunity to expand their evil, criminal empire.
  Studies show that big events like the Super Bowl create large upticks 
in the trafficking and purchasing of sex trafficking victims. In order 
to counteract this, the Department of Homeland Security, as a part of 
its Blue Campaign initiative, began preparing months in advance before 
the Super Bowl in Houston.
  Through the Blue Campaign, the Department of Homeland Security raises 
public awareness, it forges antitrafficking partnerships, and brings 
suspected human traffickers to justice. Most importantly, it rescues 
victims of the sex trafficking trade.
  In advance of the last Super Bowl, the Blue Campaign worked with 
local, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies on the ground, as 
well as participating in several congressional briefings. One such 
briefing I hosted here in Washington.
  Everybody working together, all different law enforcement agencies, 
State, local, and Federal, had a great result in what occurred in 
Houston. Over 750 people were arrested, and 86 victims were rescued. 
Many more were likely spared being forced into the trafficking 
industry.
  Having worked closely with the Blue Campaign on this, and many other 
operations, I have seen firsthand the important role the Department of 
Homeland Security has in fighting the scourge of human trafficking.
  Mr. Speaker, as you know, trafficking is second only to the drug 
trade in the amount of money, criminal money, it brings in. And the 
Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act will 
ensure that the critically important program continues to provide 
safety to victims and gets some justice to the traffickers and those 
would-be buyers of little children.
  Mr. Speaker, I commend the chairman for this legislation.
  And that is just the way it is.
  Mr. VELA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1370 was unanimously approved by the Committee on 
Homeland Security earlier this year. The partnerships that DHS has 
established through the Blue Campaign are critical to stopping criminal 
activity that comes with a tragically high human cost.
  By leading the charge and identifying and closing all possible 
avenues through which human traffickers smuggle people into the United 
States, DHS plays a critical role in ensuring the safety of children 
and other innocent people. Joint, concerted efforts that bring together 
law enforcement, nongovernmental entities, and private industry, and 
raise public awareness of this criminal activity, are important to 
ending the practice altogether.
  We must continue to support this unity of effort in order to aid and 
protect victims of human trafficking, and bring those who exploit them 
to justice.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman McCaul for his leadership in this 
effort, and I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1370, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1645

  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Let me also thank my colleague, Mr. Vela, for his steadfast support 
of this legislation, as well as the entire Homeland Security Committee, 
which has worked in a very bipartisan fashion on this very important 
issue.
  This is not a matter of politics. It is a matter of saving our 
children from trafficking and sex abuse. We have all heard the stories. 
We have heard some of those here today, but I think there is nothing 
more criminal, other than perhaps what ISIS did yesterday, than the 
exploitation of children. Of course, that is what ISIS did yesterday in 
killing innocent children and teenagers outside a concert hall.
  The issue of human trafficking brings it to full bear: bringing 
children into

[[Page H4483]]

this country and exploiting them, selling them on the black market, and 
sexually abusing them for a very long time.
  This bill is important and necessary. It really supports, codifies, 
and gives congressional backing and support to a very important program 
within the Department, and that is the Blue Campaign.
  I also want to thank Secretary Kelly of Homeland Security for showing 
the leadership to come forward with this campaign to address this 
horrible crime against our children and those moving into adulthood.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. McCaul) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 1370, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



