

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3010-S3011]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 14

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 14, a bill to provide that 
Members of Congress may not receive pay after October 1 of any fiscal 
year in which Congress has not approved a concurrent resolution on the 
budget and passed the regular appropriations bills.


                                 S. 122

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 122, a bill to prevent 
homeowners from being forced to pay taxes on forgiven mortgage loan 
debt.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require 
continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual 
Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in 
Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the 
efforts of the United States to partner with European governments, the 
European Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 244

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Alabama (Mr. 
Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 244, a bill to repeal the wage 
requirement of the Davis-Bacon Act.


                                 S. 317

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 317, a bill to provide 
taxpayers with an annual report disclosing the cost and performance of 
Government programs and areas of duplication among them, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health 
care services for veterans.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow), the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) and the 
Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as cosponsors of S. 445, a 
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more 
timely access to home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under 
the Medicare program.


                                 S. 450

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 450, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to members of the Armed Forces who fought in 
defense of Guam, Wake Island, and the Philippine Archipelago between 
December 7, 1941 and May 10, 1942, and who died or were imprisoned by 
the Japanese military in the Philippines, Japan, Korea, Manchuria, Wake 
Island, and Guam from April 9, 1942 until September 2, 1945, in 
recognition of their personal sacrifice and service to the United 
States.


                                 S. 455

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 455, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to count resident time 
spent in a critical access hospital as resident time spent in a 
nonprovider setting for purposes of making Medicare direct and indirect 
graduate medical education payments.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 546

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 546, a bill to reduce 
temporarily the royalty required to be paid for sodium produced on 
Federal lands, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early detection, 
diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
infants, and young children.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to improve 
the ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict 
fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend 
the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 765

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.

[[Page S3011]]

Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 765, a bill to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to provide for penalties for the sale of any Purple 
Heart awarded to a member of the Armed Forces.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 808, a bill to provide 
protections for certain sports medicine professionals who provide 
certain medical services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 936

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 936, a bill to 
designate certain National Forest System land and certain public land 
under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior in the States 
of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilderness, wild 
and scenic rivers, wildland recovery areas, and biological connecting 
corridors, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 951

  At the request of Mr. Paul, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
951, a bill to reform the process by which Federal agencies analyze and 
formulate new regulations and guidance documents, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch), the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) and the 
Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) were added as cosponsors of S. 1024, a 
bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to reform the rights and 
processes relating to appeals of decisions regarding claims for 
benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1055

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1055, a bill to restrict the 
exportation of certain defense articles to the Philippine National 
Police, to work with the Philippines to support civil society and a 
public health approach to substance abuse, to report on Chinese and 
other sources of narcotics to the Republic of the Philippines, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1094, a bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to improve the accountability of employees of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1122

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1122, a bill to 
amend the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to clarify when 
the time period for the issuance of citations under such Act begins and 
to require a rule to clarify that an employer's duty to make and 
maintain accurate records of work-related injuries and illnesses is an 
ongoing obligation.


                                S. 1137

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator 
from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as cosponsors of S. 1137, a 
bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act to include provisions relating to drinking water 
and wastewater infrastructure, and for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 75, a resolution 
recognizing the 100th anniversary of the Academy of Nutrition and 
Dietetics, the largest organization of food and nutrition professionals 
in the world.


                              S. RES. 106

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 106, a resolution expressing the sense 
of the Senate to support the territorial integrity of Georgia.

                          ____________________



