

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3487]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1349. A bill to provide that the rate of military basic 
     pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisors to the commanders of the 
     combatant commands shall be equivalent to the rate of 
     military basic pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Isakson, 
             Mr. Flake, Mr. Scott, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Lankford, Mr. 
             Thune, Mr. Young, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Boozman, Mr. 
             McCain, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Risch, and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 1350. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     with respect to the timing of elections and pre-election 
     hearings and the identification of pre-election issues, and 
     to require that lists of employees eligible to vote in 
     organizing elections be provided to the National Labor 
     Relations Board; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1351. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act with 
     respect to the designation of general surgery shortage areas, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Ms. Collins, and Ms. 
             Klobuchar):
       S. 1352. A bill to establish a tax credit for on-site 
     apprenticeship programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. 
             Durbin):
       S. 1353. A bill to require States to automatically register 
     eligible voters to vote in elections for Federal offices, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr. Kaine, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Mr. Nelson, Ms. Hassan, and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 1354. A bill to establish an Individual Market 
     Reinsurance fund to provide funding for State individual 
     market stabilization reinsurance programs; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 1355. A bill to combat the heroin epidemic and drug 
     sample backlogs; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 1356. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the use of Post-9/11 Educational Assistance to 
     pursue independent study programs at certain educational 
     institutions that are not institutions of higher learning, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Portman, Ms. Stabenow, 
             and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 1357. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide a standard definition of therapeutic family 
     care services in Medicaid; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 1358. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the treatment of certain direct primary care 
     service arrangements and periodic provider fees; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mrs. Capito, 
             and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 1359. A bill to amend the John F. Kennedy Center Act to 
     authorize appropriations for the John F. Kennedy Center for 
     the Performing Arts, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 1360. A bill to require the Board of Governors of the 
     Federal Reserve System to establish an Insurance Policy 
     Advisory Committee on International Capital Standards and 
     Other Insurance Issues, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Graham, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. 
             Heller, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Grassley, Mr. 
             Isakson, and Mr. Rubio):
       S.J. Res. 46. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States authorizing the 
     Congress to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of 
     the United States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



