

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6172-H6173]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS BONUS TRANSPARENCY ACT

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 1690) to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit an annual report 
regarding performance awards and bonuses awarded to certain high-level 
employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1690

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Bonus Transparency Act''.

     SEC. 2. ANNUAL REPORT ON PERFORMANCE AWARDS AND BONUSES 
                   AWARDED TO CERTAIN HIGH-LEVEL EMPLOYEES OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after section 717 the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 718. Annual report on performance awards and bonuses 
       awarded to certain high-level employees

       ``(a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the end of 
     each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress a report that contains, 
     for the most recent fiscal year ending before the submittal 
     of the report, a description of the performance awards and 
     bonuses awarded to Regional Office Directors of the 
     Department, Directors of Medical Centers of the Department, 
     Directors of Veterans Integrated Service Networks, and any 
     other individual employed in a senior executive position.
       ``(b) Elements.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following with respect to each performance 
     award or bonus awarded to an individual described in such 
     subsection:
       ``(1) The amount of each award or bonus.
       ``(2) The job title of the individual awarded the award or 
     bonus.
       ``(3) The location where the individual awarded the award 
     or bonus works.
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
       ``(A) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee 
     on Appropriations of the Senate; and
       ``(B) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee 
     on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
       ``(2) The term `individual' means--
       ``(A) a career appointee (as that term is defined in 
     section 3132(a)(4) of title 5); or
       ``(B) any individual who occupies an administrative or 
     executive position and who was appointed under section 
     7306(a) or section 7401(1) of this title.
       ``(3) The term `senior executive position' means--
       ``(A) with respect to a career appointee (as that term is 
     defined in section 3132(a)(4) of title 5), a Senior Executive 
     Service position (as such term is defined in section 
     3132(a)(2) of title 5); and
       ``(B) with respect to an individual appointed under section 
     7306(a) or section 7401(1) of this title, an administrative 
     or executive position.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 7 of such title is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 717 the following new 
     item:

``718. Annual report on performance awards and bonuses awarded to 
              certain high-level employees.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Roe) and the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Walz) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1690, as amended, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs Bonus Transparency Act.
  This bill would require the Department of Veterans Affairs to submit 
an annual report to specified congressional committees on the 
performance awards and bonuses presented to Senior Executive Service 
employees, SES employees.
  I believe that, if you do excellent work, you should receive a bonus. 
I also believe such a bonus should be justified and that there should 
be some level of transparency regarding those who receive a bonus.
  Mr. Speaker, I support Congresswoman Tenney's bill, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2006, the VA Procurement 
Efficiency and Transparency Act.
  This legislation will require VA to record any costs or savings it 
incurs as a result of using competitive procedures. The reporting 
requirement is limited to contracts reported in the Federal procurement 
data system and will ensure increased transparency in the VA.
  It also requires VA to use standardized contracting templates 
throughout the entire VA. This will create an efficient system for VA 
contracting officers so they are not wasting man-hours developing 
multiple documents to award VA contracts.
  Anyone who has been a Member of Congress and has dealt with VA 
contracts knows how difficult, confusing, and just, quite honestly, 
frustrating this is. So having standardized forms will improve 
oversight of these contracts so that all VA employees and contractors 
follow the same requirements for the same type of contract.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this smart legislation, 
efficiency in government, and help provide care in a more timely 
manner.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge its support, and I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Tenney) who is the author of the bill.
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I first want to thank Chairman Roe and 
Ranking Member Walz for prioritizing bipartisanship and putting our 
veterans ahead of politics. This committee's work is a testament to 
what we can achieve here in Congress when we put aside politics and 
focus on results.
  Mr. Speaker, the Department of Veterans Affairs Bonus Transparency 
Act requires the VA to submit a report to Congress at the end of each 
fiscal year listing the bonuses that were awarded to senior-level 
executives within the department.
  In 2015, VA employees received more than $177 million in bonuses, 
which was 24 percent more than they had received in 2014. The average 
bonus for a senior executive was $10,000.
  I have no doubt that the men and women of the VA serve our veterans 
admirably each day. In fact, I know that they do. In my own district, I 
have spoken with veterans who are grateful for the compassionate care 
they receive from the VA hospital in Syracuse as well as local VA 
clinics in Binghamton and Rome.
  VA employees should be fairly compensated for their work and awarded 
for their achievements in service to our Nation's veterans.
  It is also clear to me that there is more work to be done. Just 
recently, an audit of several VA facilities in

[[Page H6173]]

North Carolina and Virginia revealed that wait times continue to be 
misrepresented and that nearly 14,000 veterans were denied access to 
timely care. The audit also found that veterans were waiting an average 
of 26 days to see mental health specialists, while the VA falsely 
reported average wait times of 6 days.
  In light of such news, the American people are right to wonder who at 
the VA may be receiving a bonus this year. They are also right to be 
concerned about the nature and conditions of such bonuses.
  H.R. 1690 would add a simple reporting requirement to existing law 
that will streamline the oversight of bonuses at the VA. It requires 
the agency to proactively provide information to Congress that details 
the amount of each bonus awarded to senior executives as well as the 
job titles of the individuals and the location of their employment.
  Because of the patterns of mismanagement at the VA, veterans must 
know how bonuses are being awarded at the agency, and Congress deserves 
to receive this information in as timely a manner as possible without 
having to request it each year. This bill increases transparency over 
the bonus process without placing an undue burden on the agency.
  It is an honor to represent a district that is home to more than 
55,000 veterans. I owe it to each of them every day to make sure that 
the VA is accountable and transparent. Our Nation's veterans deserve 
the very best healthcare for their service and sacrifice to our Nation.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Roe and Ranking Member Walz for their 
support, and I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1690.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, sometimes we sing from the same 
song sheet, and sometimes we don't sing from the same song sheet.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

  Yes, Mr. Speaker, I was in the Lutheran hymnal and not the Baptist. I 
apologize to the gentlewoman, and the next time I ask my 10-year-old to 
not be on his phone, I will be duly chastised.
  Mr. Speaker, I do rise in support of H.R. 1690. The gentlewoman is 
right. It is smart. The public demands transparency. Make sure that 
there is an accountability in this, and make sure that we are tracking.
  So I thank the gentlewoman for her tolerance of us getting ahead of 
ourselves.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this piece of 
legislation also, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all 
Members to support this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 1690, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I object to the vote on the ground that a 
quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not 
present.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.
  The point of no quorum is considered withdrawn.

                          ____________________



