

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5437-H5438]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     CONGRATULATING FULBRIGHT RECIPIENTS FROM PENNSYLVANIA'S FIFTH 
                         CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
16 individuals from Pennsylvania's Fifth Congressional District who 
have received prestigious Fulbright awards during the 2016-2017 school 
year.
  Congress established the Fulbright Program in 1946. It promotes 
friendly and peaceful relations between Americans and people of other 
countries through international educational exchange. Each year, more 
than 3,000 U.S. students, scholars, artists, and professionals in more 
than 100 different fields of study are offered Fulbright Program grants 
to lecture, study, teach English, and conduct research in more than 140 
countries.
  Today, it is my privilege to recognize the following 16 individuals:
  Dr. Farshid Ahrestani of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar of 
biology, whose host country was India;
  Dr. Luis Ayala Hernandez of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar of 
engineering, whose host country was Colombia;
  Ms. Maria Barboza of Clarion, Pennsylvania, a student with an English 
teaching apprenticeship, whose host country is Brazil;
  Dr. Samuel Bufford of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar of law, 
whose host country was Romania;
  Ms. Alice Chen of Bradford, Pennsylvania, a student with an English 
teaching apprenticeship, whose host country was Taiwan;
  Ms. Talia Cowen of State College, Pennsylvania, a student with an 
English teaching apprenticeship, whose host country is South Korea;
  Dr. Zuleima Karpyn of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar of 
engineering, whose host country was Colombia;
  Ms. Lauren Knoth of State College, Pennsylvania, a student of 
sociology, whose host country was Finland;
  Dr. Gerald LeTendre of Furnace, Pennsylvania, a scholar of education, 
whose host country was Japan;
  Dr. Anthony Robinson of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar of 
geology, whose host country was Austria;
  Dr. Robert Roeser of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar of 
psychology, whose host country is India;
  Dr. Heather Snyder of Waterford, Pennsylvania, a scholar of 
psychology, whose host country was the United Kingdom;
  Dr. Jacqueline Stefkovich of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar 
of education, whose host country was Croatia;
  Ms. Ann Tarantino of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar of the 
arts, whose host country was Brazil;
  Dr. Andrea Wyman of Edinboro, Pennsylvania, a scholar of library 
science, whose host country was Azerbaijan; and
  Dr. Karl Zimmerer of State College, Pennsylvania, a scholar of 
geography, whose host country is Spain.
  Congratulations to each and every one of you. You have earned this 
national recognition with your years of study, leadership, and service, 
and our community is proud of you.
  Mr. Speaker, the Fulbright Program is one of the most sought-after 
exchange programs in the world. It encourages applications from 
individuals of academic and professional achievement who are current 
and future leaders in their respective fields. Selected through open, 
merit-based competition, Fulbrighters represent the excellence and 
diversity of their societies around the world and in the United States.
  Since 1946, more than 370,000 individuals from the United States and 
180 countries have participated in the program, including 37 heads of 
state, 57 Nobel Laureates, 82 Pulitzer Prize winners, and 70 MacArthur 
Foundation Fellows.
  These relationships form a foundation of trust on which the United 
States may advance global peace and security. I know that the memorable 
learning experiences individuals encounter through the program will 
never be forgotten.
  I thank all the Fulbrighters, especially the 16 from Pennsylvania's 
Fifth Congressional District. We are grateful

[[Page H5438]]

for your contributions and most proud of your achievements.
  Congratulations.

                          ____________________



