

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4669-S4672]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. BOOKER:
  S. 1689. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to provide for 
a new rule regarding the application of the Act to marihuana, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
  Mr. BOOKER. Madam President, I rise to talk about the Marijuana 
Justice Act--a bill I introduced today that would end the Federal 
prohibition on marijuana and start to end the War on Drugs. For far too 
long we have approached drug use and addiction as something we can jail 
ourselves out of. It is beyond clear that approach has failed. It is 
time we start to address the persistent and systemic racial bias that 
has plagued our criminal justice system and adopt policies that will 
move us forward, not backward. It is time to de-schedule marijuana.
  Since 2001, arrests for marijuana have increased across the Country 
and now account for over 50 percent of all drug arrests in the United 
States. The ACLU conducted a thorough study of over 8 million marijuana 
arrests between 2001 and 2010. It found that 88 percent of those were 
for marijuana possession. Alarmingly, the study also found that African 
Americans are 3.73 times more likely to be arrested for marijuana 
possession than their white peers, even though they use marijuana at 
similar rates.
  Over the last five years, States have begun to legalize marijuana in 
an effort to push back on the failed War on Drugs and combat the 
illicit drug market. Currently, eight States and the District of 
Columbia have legalized marijuana and more States are taking up 
measures to follow suit. We know from the experiences of States that 
have already legalized marijuana that we will gain far more than we 
lose--these States have seen increased revenues and decreased rates of 
serious crime, and a reallocation of resources toward more productive 
uses. In Colorado, arrest rates have decreased and State revenues have 
increased. Washington saw a 10 percent decrease in violent crime over 
the three-year period following legalization.
  However, the Federal government still treats marijuana as an illegal 
substance. It is time for the Federal government to end the Federal 
prohibition of marijuana.
  Today, I introduced the Marijuana Justice Act, a bill that would 
remove marijuana from the list of controlled substances, thereby ending 
the Federal prohibition. The bill would also automatically expunge 
records for people who were convicted of Federal marijuana use and 
possession offenses. We must help people with criminal records get back 
up on their feet and obtain jobs, and expunging their records is an 
important step in that process.
  The legislation would allow individuals currently serving time in 
Federal prison for marijuana offenses to petition a court for a 
resentencing. One of the greatest tragedies from the Fair Sentencing 
Act was that it did not provide retroactive relief to individuals 
serving time under the old crack and powder cocaine sentencing laws. 
The Marijuana Justice Act would allow people currently serving time for 
a marijuana offense to seek immediate relief.
  The bill would also use Federal funds to encourage States where 
marijuana is illegal to legalize the drug if they disproportionately 
arrest or incarcerate low income individuals or people

[[Page S4670]]

of color. Too often drug laws are enforced disproportionately against 
minorities and the poor. This is unacceptable and belies our values.
  Finally, the Marijuana Justice Act would establish a community 
reinvestment fund, which would invest money in communities most 
affected by the War on Drugs. Building new libraries, supporting job 
training, and investing in community centers will improve public safety 
and is the right thing to do after decades of failed drug policies.
  The Marijuana Justice Act is a serious step in acknowledging, that 
after 40 years, it is time to end the War on Drugs. It is time to stop 
our backward thinking, which has only led to backward results. It is 
time to lead with our hearts, our heads, and with policy that actually 
works.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. McCain, Mrs. 
        McCaskill, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Blunt, Mrs. Capito, 
        Mr. Casey, Ms. Collins, Mr. Corker, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Flake, Mr. 
        Graham, Mr. Isakson, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Lee, Mr. 
        Nelson, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Brown, Ms. Murkowski, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
        Hoeven, and Mr. Cochran):
  S. 1693. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify 
that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against 
providers and users of interactive computer services of Federal and 
State criminal and civil law relating to sex trafficking; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I would like to talk today about the 
criminal act of sex trafficking.
  Today we introduced legislation that is incredibly important to 
combating sex trafficking. The Senate also passed a resolution today by 
unanimous consent to provide information to the Justice Department that 
comes out of an investigation that we did in the U.S. Senate regarding 
sex trafficking. This is an important day in pushing back.
  Let me talk about this for a second in personal terms. Imagine, if 
you will, that your daughter is missing. You do everything you can do 
to find her. Finally, you see her picture on the internet, and she is 
being sold for sex. That may sound like a horror movie to you, but it 
is very real. Unfortunately, it is happening across our country.
  Families in Ohio and in your State have experienced this nightmare 
situation. Let me tell you about Kubiiki Pride. Kubiiki Pride gave 
powerful testimony before the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations 
in the Senate. Ms. Pride said her daughter had been missing for 9 
months when she found her picture on the top website for commercial sex 
activity--backpage.com. She was actually glad to have found her 
daughter. So she called backpage.com and said: That is my daughter. She 
has been missing for 9 months. She is 14 years old. Thank you for 
taking down the ad.

  Backpage.com said to her: Did you pay for the ad?
  She said: No. It is my 14-year-old daughter.
  They said: We are not going to take down the ad. You didn't pay for 
it.
  Imagine if this were your daughter. Imagine how you would feel.
  These traffickers are using the internet to sell girls and women. 
Congress has a responsibility to act. We have a responsibility to act 
because human trafficking is now becoming a national crisis.
  Human trafficking, including sex trafficking, is a $150 billion-a-
year industry. That makes it the second biggest criminal enterprise in 
the world, only behind the drug trade. And this ruthless, corrupt 
industry is growing significantly. Why? Because of the internet in the 
digital age. Victims of sex trafficking told me: Rob, this has gone 
from the street corner to the smart phone.
  Since 2007, the Polaris Project--a leading anti-trafficking advocacy 
group--received 33,000 reports of human trafficking through its various 
hotlines.
  By the way, Polaris endorsed our legislation, which I appreciate.
  In 2016 alone, Polaris-operated hotlines received 8,000 reports of 
human trafficking. Almost 25 percent of trafficking incidents reported 
to Polaris in the past decade happened just last year. Human 
trafficking reports through these hotlines went up dramatically--35 
percent--between 2015 and 2016. There is no reason to believe this 
trend will reverse unless we act.
  This is a 21st-century epidemic. The National Center for Missing and 
Exploited Children noted an 846 percent increase in reports of 
suspected child sex trafficking through its CyberTipline from 2010 to 
2015. In just 5 years, that is an increase of over 800 percent. They 
found this dramatic spike to be ``directly correlated to the increased 
use of the internet to sell children for sex.'' That is what is going 
on.
  How is this happening? People are being bought and sold on public 
domains accessible from a simple search. And the majority of online sex 
trafficking can be traced to one website called backpage.com. The 
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children said 73 percent--
three-quarters of all suspected sex trafficking it receives from the 
general public through its CyberTipline comes from this one website.
  According to leading anti-traffic organizations, including Shared 
Hope International, service providers working with child sex 
trafficking victims have reported that between 80 percent and 100 
percent of the victims they help were bought and sold on backpage.com.
  My experience in Ohio is similar to that. I will tell you 
anecdotally, as I talked to women and girls who had been victims of sex 
trafficking, almost all of them tell me they have been sold on 
backpage. By the way, almost all of them tell me that they had become 
addicted in the process to an opioid, heroin, or prescription drugs and 
that is used to keep their dependency on their trafficker.
  In January of this year, a nearly 2-year investigation by the Senate 
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations produced a report finding 
backpage to be more deeply complicit in illegal online sex trafficking 
than anyone imagined. Everyone already knew sex trafficking was taking 
place on this website. It is there. But our report found that backpage 
actively and knowingly facilitated the criminal sex trafficking of 
women and children; then it covered up evidence of these crimes to 
increase its own profits. This is the information we have now provided 
to the Department of Justice.
  We also know from a recent Washington Post report that, despite its 
claims, backpage aggressively solicited and created sex-related ads to 
lure customers to its website. It claims it ``leads the industry'' in 
its screening of illegal activity, including sex ads for children, but 
that isn't true. To the contrary, it appears the industry backpage 
leads is online sex trafficking, valuing its profits more than the 
rights of vulnerable women and young children. They have known their 
site has been used for illegal sex trafficking for years, but instead 
of putting a stop to it, the company has actively facilitated these 
crimes.
  That is why Congress has to act. Last month, I, along with Senators 
McCaskill and Carper, launched a criminal review of backpage.com. 
Today, the Senate passed a resolution releasing materials from our 18-
month investigation to the Department. I hope the Department of Justice 
will join in this fight against backpage, but I believe achieving 
justice for these victims requires a legislative fix once and for all.
  There is a recent documentary, and I would encourage you to look at 
it. It is powerful and tough, but it is important. It is called ``I am 
Jane Doe.'' It chronicles the cases of three young girls who were sex 
trafficking victims bought and sold on backpage. In 2014, these girls 
brought cases against backpage, accusing them of knowingly assisting in 
their trafficking. The ads on backpage for each of these girls 
explicitly promoted their youth. These were underage girls.
  The court found that the victims made a strong case that backpage 
tailored its site to make underage sex trafficking easier, but the 
court ruled that third-party websites facilitating sex trafficking are 
immune from charges brought on by victims, no matter how complicit the 
website was in the crime, citing the blanket immunity granted by a 1996 
law called the Communications Decency Act, or CDA.
  Around the same time in Massachusetts, three young victims sued

[[Page S4671]]

backpage after they were bought and sold on their website for sex. 
They, too, argued that backpage made sex trafficking easier. This case 
reached the First Circuit Court of Appeals, but backpage was once again 
spared of any legal ramifications because of the Communications Decency 
Act, specifically section 230 of that law--the clause courts credit to 
giving third-party providers blanket immunity from crimes committed 
through their website.
  Despite its ruling, the court recognized the immoral nature of 
backpage appearing to profit from online prostitution but maintained 
they couldn't do anything about it because the law protected these 
acts. The court opinion stated that in order to fix the problem, ``the 
remedy is through legislation, not litigation.'' That is who we are. We 
are the legislators. The court of appeals said: Congress, do your job.
  Numerous judicial decisions have suggested that Congress must act, 
before the courts, to bring justice to the victims and families of 
online sex trafficking. That is my intention in introducing this 
legislation today.
  I believe that we need to have free internet. All of us do. I believe 
that the Communications Decency Act is a well-intentioned law that has 
an important purpose. But the law was not intended to protect those who 
willingly facilitate illegal conduct, such as sex trafficking, and it 
wasn't intended to protect backpage.com. That is why today I, along 
with a number of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle, have 
introduced this bill called the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act. It 
clarifies section 230 of the Communications Decency Act to ensure that 
websites that knowingly facilitate sex trafficking can be held liable 
and the victims can get justice. It is very narrow. You have to 
knowingly be involved in supporting, assisting, and facilitating sex 
trafficking. This will not be a broad net.
  The Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act puts in place three narrowly 
crafted and commonsense reforms.
  First, it allows victims to seek justice against websites that 
knowingly facilitate crimes against them.
  Second, it eliminates the Federal liability protections for websites 
that assist, support, or facilitate a violation of Federal sex 
trafficking laws--laws already on the books.
  Finally, it will enable State law enforcement--not just the 
Department of Justice--to take legal action if these businesses violate 
Federal sex trafficking laws. Forty-seven attorneys general asked for 
this.
  The internet revolutionized illegal sex trafficking, and Federal law 
has not kept pace. It is time for this 21-year-old law to be brought 
into this century. The Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act is legislation 
our courts have been calling for, our attorneys general have been 
calling for, and most importantly, what victims and their families have 
been insisting that we do.
  Again, this law was never intended to protect sex traffickers who 
prey on the most innocent and vulnerable among us. This narrowly 
crafted bill gives law enforcement the tools they need to go after 
criminals who traffic women and children online for sex.
  There are some groups who have been critical of this effort to hold 
backpage accountable and stop this online exploitation. They have 
suggested that this bipartisan bill could impact mainstream websites 
and service providers--the good actors out there. That is false. Our 
bill does not amend, and thus preserves, the Communications Decency 
Act's Good Samaritan provision. This provision protects good actors who 
proactively block and screen for offensive material and thus shields 
them from any frivolous lawsuits. That is in the legislation and needs 
to be in there.
  This bipartisan legislation preserves internet freedom, while holding 
those who actively facilitate online sex trafficking accountable.
  I recently visited the Ranch of Opportunity in Washington Court 
House, OH. This is a place of hope for girls between ages 13 and 18 to 
find healing and recovery during a residential treatment program. Most 
of the girls at the ranch, I am told, have been victims of sex 
trafficking. As I heard heartbreaking stories from these girls who have 
had their most basic human rights stripped from them, backpage came up. 
As I said earlier, it almost always does. We can never take back the 
horrors they had to endure. What we can do and what this legislation 
will do is bring justice to these victims and their families.
  I am proud to stand with my 20, now 25, bipartisan colleagues, as 
well as 18 anti-human trafficking advocacy groups and law enforcement 
organizations around this country, to support this legislation as we 
fight against this abhorrent evil.
  In a letter of support, the president and CEO of the National Center 
for Missing and Exploited Children said: ``This bill will help ensure 
justice for child sex trafficking victims and clarify remedies 
available to civil attorneys and State attorneys general to assist 
victims in holding everyone responsible who participated in their 
trafficking.''
  That is what it is about. It is about securing justice for those who 
have had their most basic human rights taken away, and it is about 
protecting vulnerable women and children. Victims of sex trafficking 
know evil far worse than many of us can ever imagine. The trauma they 
go through is unbelievable. We owe it to them to fix flaws in the 
justice system that allow people complicit in these crimes to profit 
from human misery and suffering. The Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act 
will do that.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Coons):
  S. 1694. A bill to improve quality and accountability for educator 
preparation programs; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions.
  Mr. REED. Mr. President, we know that the quality of teachers and 
principals are two of the most important in-school factors related to 
student achievement. Yet the pipeline into the profession has been 
neglected. If we want to improve our schools, it is essential that we 
invest in the professional preparation of teachers, principals, and 
other educators. As such, today, I am reintroducing the Educator 
Preparation Reform Act with my colleagues Senators Casey and Coons to 
ensure that the Federal government continues to be a partner in 
addressing this critical national need.
  Today, we are facing a crisis in education. According to a research 
brief from the Learning Policy Institute, we have seen dramatic 
declines in enrollment in teacher preparation programs--an estimated 35 
percent decline between 2009 and 2014. We also continue to see high 
rates of attrition among educators. If these trends continue, there 
will be an estimated gap of more than 100,000 between the number of 
teaching positions open and the number of teachers available to be 
hired annually through 2025.
  The impact of these shortages falls the hardest on our most 
vulnerable students in our highest need communities. Rhode Island is no 
exception. Providence, our largest school district, is facing an acute 
shortage of teachers certified to teach English language learners. My 
home State has also reported shortages in special education, science, 
math, and school nurses.
  We cannot solve this problem without improving both teacher and 
principal preparation. We need to make sure that our educator 
preparation programs are worthy of the professionals entering the field 
and the students they will serve. That is why it is more urgent than 
ever that we enact the Educator Preparation Reform Act.
  Our legislation builds on the success of the Teacher Quality 
Partnership Program, which I helped author in the 1998 reauthorization 
of the Higher Education Act. It continues the partnership between high 
need school districts, institutions of higher education, and educator 
preparation programs to reform pre-service programs based on the unique 
needs of the partners. Among the key changes are specific attention and 
emphasis on principals and the addition of a residency program for new 
principals. Improving instruction is a team effort, with principals at 
the helm. This bill better connects teacher preparation with principal 
preparation. The Educator Preparation Reform Act will also allow 
partnerships to develop preparation programs for other areas of 
instructional need, such as for school librarians, counselors, or other 
academic support professionals.
  The bill streamlines the accountability and reporting requirements 
for

[[Page S4672]]

teacher preparation programs to provide greater transparency on key 
quality measures such as admissions standards, requirements for 
clinical practice, placement of graduates, retention in the field of 
teaching, and teacher performance, including student-learning outcomes. 
All programs--whether traditional or alternative routes to 
certification--will report on the same measures.
  Under our legislation, States will be required to identify at-risk 
and low-performing programs and provide them with technical assistance 
and a timeline for improvement. States would be encouraged to close 
programs that do not improve.
  We have been fortunate to work with many stakeholders on this 
legislation. Organizations that have endorsed the Educator Preparation 
Reform Act include: the American Association of Colleges for Teacher 
Education, American Association of State Colleges and Universities, 
Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Council for Christian 
Colleges and Universities, Higher Education Consortium for Special 
Education, Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, National 
Association of Elementary School Principals, National Association of 
Secondary School Principals, National Association of State Directors of 
Special Education, National Disability Rights Network, National Network 
of State Teachers of the Year, Public Advocacy for Kids, Rural School 
and Community Trust, and the Teacher Education Division of the Council 
for Exceptional Children.
  I look forward to working to incorporate this legislation into the 
upcoming reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. I urge my 
colleagues to join us in this effort and support this legislation.

                          ____________________



