

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4620-S4621]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 754

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 754, a bill to support 
meeting our Nation's growing cybersecurity workforce needs by expanding 
the cybersecurity education pipeline.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 910, a bill 
to prohibit discrimination against individuals with disabilities who 
need long-term services and supports, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the 
ability of community financial institutions to foster economic growth 
and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1169, a bill to amend title XIX of the Social 
Security Act to provide States with an option to provide medical 
assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 64 for inpatient 
services to treat substance use disorders at certain facilities, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of 
The American Legion.


                                S. 1218

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1218, a bill 
to promote Federal employment for veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1301

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1301, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the distribution 
of additional residency positions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1514

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1514, a bill to 
amend certain Acts to reauthorize those Acts and to increase 
protections for wildlife, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1529

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1529, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand eligibility for the 
refundable credit for coverage under a qualified health plan.


                                S. 1544

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1544, a bill to 
prevent Federal funds from being used to establish a cybersecurity unit 
in cooperation with the Russian Federation.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1595, a bill to amend the 
Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose 
additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1598

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1598, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to make certain improvements in the laws administered by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1619

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1619, a bill to amend the 
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to extend the interest rate limitation 
on debt entered into during military service to debt incurred during 
military service to consolidate or refinance student loans incurred 
before military service.


                                S. 1638

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1638, a bill 
to provide priority under certain federally assisted housing programs 
to assist youths who

[[Page S4621]]

are aging out of foster care, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1640

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1640, a bill to 
reform the financing of Senate elections, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1657

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Montana (Mr. 
Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1657, a bill to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to update the privacy protections for electronic 
communications information that is stored by third-party service 
providers and for geolocation information in order to protect consumer 
privacy interests while meeting law enforcement needs, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1663

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator 
from Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. 
Cochran) were added as cosponsors of S. 1663, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to enhance the requirements for secure 
geological storage of carbon dioxide for purposes of the carbon dioxide 
sequestration credit.


                              S. RES. 233

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 233, a resolution designating August 16, 2017, as 
``National Airborne Day''.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 527

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 527 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 528

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 528 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 529

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 529 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 534 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 536

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 536 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 592

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins), the Senator 
from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) 
and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 592 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



