

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5765]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         HONORING MIKE McGARVIN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Costa) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the life of 
Mr. Mike McGarvin, a role model for one and all, and a gentleman who 
truly made a difference in his lifetime.
  Mike was the beloved founder of the Poverello House, a homeless 
shelter in Fresno, California, which provides three meals a day, 365 
days a year, to those in need, as well as clothing, medical services, 
and temporary shelter for those who are most vulnerable and have 
challenges in their life.
  For decades, Mike served countless people in the Fresno area using 
one simple message: ``Listen with compassion; give with a warm heart 
and a smile.''
  Think about that: Listen with compassion and give with a warm heart 
and a smile.
  The lives of hundreds and thousands of individuals were made better 
because of Mike's helping hand. He will be remembered by all for his 
deep compassion and boundless kindness.
  Mike was a role model for me and for all who knew him. He leaves a 
legacy of service and selflessness, both through the Poverello House 
and in the hearts of those people he touched throughout the years.
  I join Mike's family and the supporters of the Poverello House over 
the years in honoring his life.


             Congratulations to Valley Children's Hospital

  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Valley 
Children's Hospital for their recent recognition as one of the Nation's 
top 50 children's hospitals in the country, which I represent. I have 
been there and know of the work they do.
  In their annual Best Children's Hospitals report, U.S. News & World 
Report ranked the hospital in a host of key critical areas as among the 
top in pediatric orthopedics, pediatric diabetes and endocrinology, and 
pediatric gastroenterology and GI surgery.
  To see these preemies in their beds and these young, little lives 
being saved as a result of the overall effort of the children's 
hospital is truly heartwarming.
  We in the Valley have known for decades how highly skilled and 
dedicated the nurses, doctors, and staff are at Valley Children's 
Hospital. It was founded more than 60 years ago with the mission to 
provide high-quality, comprehensive medical care to children, 
regardless of their ability to pay, and to continuously improve upon 
the health and well-being of these children. That is why, in part, the 
cuts that are being proposed to Medicaid are so devastating all around 
the country, but especially among our children who are not in a 
position to afford this kind of care.
  Valley Children's Hospital has grown and is now the second largest 
children's hospital in California. It has many more patients than any 
other pediatric hospital north of San Diego. The hospital's emergency 
room is the only dedicated pediatric emergency room between San 
Francisco and Los Angeles.
  Valley Children's Hospital has been designated as a magnet nursing 
hospital by the American Nurses Credentialing Center, which is a 
recognition of true excellence in nursing care. Less than 3 percent of 
all hospitals in the United States earn this designation.
  Once again, I am a regular visitor to this hospital. When you see the 
staff, who have an incredible heart, and all the loving care they 
provide, and you see the parents and families with their young babies 
and young children, you know that something special is going on here.
  On behalf of my constituents in the Valley community, I would like to 
congratulate Valley Children's Hospital for their recent recognition as 
one of the Nation's top 50 children's hospitals.
  I would also like to thank all of the dedicated staff, once again, 
who are committed to improving the health and well-being of not only 
the children of our Valley and in California, but across the Nation. We 
know that all of the nurses and physicians make a difference throughout 
our country.

                          ____________________



