

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 83 (Monday, May 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 83 (Monday, May 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2932]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    TRIBUTE TO COLONEL PATRICK KERR

 Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, today I wish to recognize the 
military career of COL Patrick Kerr, who is retiring from Active Duty 
on June 1, 2017 after serving more than 26 years in the U.S. Army.
  Colonel Kerr was commissioned into the Army as a second lieutenant 
through the ROTC program at James Madison University in 1990. Over the 
course of his long career, Colonel Kerr served at every leadership 
level in the Army from platoon leader in the 63rd Signal Battalion to 
brigade commander of the Army Information Systems Engineering Command 
at Fort Huachuca. During his brigade command, Colonel Kerr's unit 
defended Army networks against daily attacks and conducted cyber space 
and network operations in support of the warfighter.
  Throughout his time in the Army, Colonel Kerr has been a leader in 
the incredibly important battlefield of cyber security and network 
communications. It is difficult to imagine aspects of the military that 
have changed more in the last quarter century than military 
communications, information technology, and cyber security. Colonel 
Kerr provided extraordinary leadership for the Army to navigate through 
the many challenges of building, operating, and protecting Army and 
Defense Department communications networks.
  Prior to his current assignment in Arizona, Colonel Kerr was the 
deputy operations officer for recently created Army Cyber Command. He 
also commanded the 53rd Signal Battalion, which operates the Department 
of Defense's constellation of military command and control satellites, 
providing secure and protected communications around the globe. Colonel 
Kerr also served as executive officer of the 44th Signal Battalion for 
its deployment to Afghanistan during the first parliamentary elections 
for the new government in 2005. As a young officer, Colonel Kerr also 
deployed to Somalia for Operation Continue Hope; to Kosovo as part of 
the NATO stabilization force operations; and to Central Command for 
Operation Provide Comfort.
  Colonel Kerr has received numerous awards, including the Legion of 
Merit, with oakleaf cluster, Bronze Star, Defense Meritorious Service 
Medal, with two oakleaf clusters, and the Meritorious Service Medal, 
with two oakleaf clusters). He has earned the U.S. Air Force Space 
Badge and is a recipient of the Signal Corps Regiment Silver Order of 
Mercury.
  Finally, Colonel Kerr provided mentorship to countless soldiers 
throughout his career. He is known for going the extra mile in 
professionally developing his subordinates and truly preparing them for 
their next leadership role. In fact, Colonel Kerr's advice and counsel 
is regularly sought by all who work with him to include his peers and 
superiors.
  Colonel Kerr is retiring in Vail, AZ, with his family. He has been 
married to his wife, Wendy, for over 25 years, and they have two 
children, Noelle and Peter. For a career soldier, the support of family 
is vital, and I sincerely thank Wendy, Noelle, and Peter for their 
sacrifice and support during their numerous deployments and moves.
  For a career of exceptional service to the Army and to the Nation, I 
congratulate COL Patrick Kerr on his retirement and I wish him and his 
family well in their future endeavors.

                          ____________________



