

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2820-H2821]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




AUTHORIZING USE OF CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL PEACE OFFICERS MEMORIAL 
                                SERVICE

  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to 
the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 35) authorizing the use of the 
Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers Memorial Service and 
the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition.
  The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.
  The text of the concurrent resolution is as follows:

                             H. Con Res. 35

       Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate 
     concurring),

     SECTION 1. USE OF THE CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL PEACE 
                   OFFICERS MEMORIAL SERVICE.

       (a) In General.--The Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of 
     Police and its auxiliary shall be permitted to sponsor a 
     public event, the 36th Annual National Peace Officers 
     Memorial Service (in this resolution referred to as the 
     ``Memorial Service''), on the Capitol Grounds, in order to 
     honor the law enforcement officers who died in the line of 
     duty during 2016.
       (b) Date of Memorial Service.--The Memorial Service shall 
     be held on May 15, 2017, or on such other date as the Speaker 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules 
     and Administration of the Senate jointly designate, with 
     preparation for the event to begin on May 11, 2017, and take-
     down completed on May 16, 2017.

     SEC. 2. USE OF THE CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL HONOR GUARD 
                   AND PIPE BAND EXHIBITION.

       (a) In General.--The Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of 
     Police and its auxiliary shall be permitted to sponsor a 
     public event, the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band 
     Exhibition (in this resolution referred to as the 
     ``Exhibition''), on the Capitol Grounds, in order to allow 
     law enforcement representatives to exhibit their ability to 
     demonstrate Honor Guard programs and provide for a bagpipe 
     exhibition.
       (b) Date of Exhibition.--The exhibition shall be held on 
     May 14, 2017, or on such other date as the Speaker of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration of the Senate jointly designate.

     SEC. 3. TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

       (a) In General.--Under conditions to be prescribed by the 
     Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the 
     event shall be--
       (1) free of admission charge and open to the public; and
       (2) arranged not to interfere with the needs of Congress.
       (b) Expenses and Liabilities.--The sponsors of the Memorial 
     Service and Exhibition shall assume full responsibility for 
     all expenses and liabilities incident to all activities 
     associated with the events.

     SEC. 4. EVENT PREPARATIONS.

       Subject to the approval of the Architect of the Capitol, 
     the sponsors referred to in section 3(b) are authorized to 
     erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound 
     amplification devices, and other related structures and 
     equipment, as may be required for the Memorial Service and 
     Exhibition.

     SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS.

       The Capitol Police Board shall provide for enforcement of 
     the restrictions contained in section 5104(c) of title 40, 
     United States Code, concerning sales, advertisements, 
     displays, and solicitations on the Capitol Grounds, as well 
     as other restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds, in 
     connection with the events.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Ferguson) and the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Johnson) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Ferguson).


                             General Leave

  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material on H. Con. Res. 35.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Georgia?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H. Con. Res. 35 authorizes the use of the Capitol 
Grounds for the annual National Police Officers' Memorial Service and 
the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition. These events are 
held each year as part of Police Week to honor the men and women who 
sacrificed their lives in the line of duty. This use of the Capitol 
Grounds is a worthy recognition of the honorable sacrifice of our 
Nation's brave first responders and their families.
  This year, 234 fallen officers will be honored, which is 100 more 
than last year. Ten of these officers are from my home State of 
Georgia, and 70 died from 9/11-related cancer. This year, we will also 
remember five officers of the Dallas Police Department for their 
courage in the line of fire while responding to the shootings in Dallas 
at last July's protest.

[[Page H2821]]

  This is a clear reminder of the sacrifices that our men and women in 
law enforcement make every day as they put their lives on the line to 
maintain safe communities for us and our loved ones. We must do all we 
can to support these brave men and women and their families.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this resolution, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H. Con. Res. 35 authorizes use of the Capitol Grounds 
for the annual National Peace Officers' Memorial Service on May 15 and 
a National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition. Both events will be 
coordinated with the Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police.
  The National Peace Officers' Memorial will honor the 144 law 
enforcement officers killed in the line of duty in 2016. In addition, 
the memorial event will honor 70 police officers who died from cancer 
related to 9/11 and 30 officers who died within the past 5 years who 
were not previously honored.
  Eight of those officers this year hail from my home State of Georgia. 
I offer the deepest condolences to the families of those officers who 
have had to endure the tragedy of losing a loved one who volunteered to 
protect my fellow Georgians.
  I have deep appreciation for the fallen officers and the ultimate 
sacrifice that they have made on behalf of their local communities. I 
support this resolution and urge Members to join me in supporting this 
tribute to law enforcement officers who died in the line of duty in the 
year 2016.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Ferguson) that the House suspend the rules 
and agree to the concurrent resolution, H. Con. Res. 35.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the concurrent resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



