

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3915]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                100TH ANNIVERSARY OF OSHKOSH CORPORATION

 Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the 100th 
anniversary of a great Wisconsin company: Oshkosh Corporation.
  Oshkosh Corporation began ten decades ago when cofounders William 
Besserdich and Bernard Mosling believed they had created something that 
would change transportation in America. Their new technology would 
improve vehicle steering and drive capacity, two factors that were 
essential for navigating unfinished roads. While the engineering was 
groundbreaking, they could not find a manufacturer who would purchase 
and build their designs.
  Faced with possible failure, William and Bernard moved on to plan B: 
manufacturing and launching their own vehicle. On May 1, 1917, they 
founded the Wisconsin Duplex Auto Company that soon issued its four-
wheel drive truck prototype, known as Old Betsy, using the duo's 
innovative technology. The company's rapid growth led them to move the 
production facility from Clintonville to Oshkosh, where it was renamed 
the Oshkosh Motor Truck Manufacturing Company.
  Over the next 3 years, the Oshkosh Motor Truck Manufacturing Company 
grew exponentially as a defense supplier for the U.S. military. In 
1945, the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy presented Oshkosh with the ``E'' 
award for excellence in wartime production. Throughout the 1940s, 
companies like Auto Body Works, Inc., and Kewaunee Shipbuilding and 
Engineering, which would later become part of the larger Oshkosh 
Corporation, made their marks on the military industry. The success of 
these companies built the foundation for Oshkosh Corporation's current 
success.
  The escalation of the Cold War led to Oshkosh's first major defense 
contract. They produced 1,000 WT-2206 snow removal vehicles that 
allowed the Air Force to remove snow for bomber planes. Throughout the 
1950s, the company continued to produce high-quality, technologically 
advanced trucks for various branches of the military. As our country 
transitioned out of a wartime economy, the company's focus shifted, 
resulting in the 1967 name change from Oshkosh Motor Truck Company to 
Oshkosh Truck Corporation.
  Over the next several decades, Oshkosh continued to grow, as did its 
subsidiaries. Whether it was defense or construction, Oshkosh is known 
for its consistency, advanced technology, and efficient designs. In the 
area of defense, the Oshkosh name has become synonymous in the minds of 
U.S. servicemembers with quality, durability, and safety. From heavy-
duty trucks, to the lifesaving MRAP--which was rapidly produced by 
skilled and patriotic Wisconsin workers in order to accelerate the 
safer vehicle's deployment to Iraq and Afghanistan--to the current 
production of the joint light tactical vehicle, Oshkosh boasts an 
unparalleled track record of delivering leading capability to our men 
and women in uniform. That is a record I have been honored to support 
throughout my time in Congress. As a member of the Senate 
Appropriations Committee, I have worked to secure the funding required 
by the Armed Services to meet their need for tactical vehicles.
  I have also been proud to represent Oshkosh in the Senate because the 
company has a steadfast commitment to its employees. Whether it was 
1917 with two employees, 1972 with 500 employees, or present day with 
over 12,000 employees across the world, Oshkosh provides for its 
employees with scholarships, employee safety, and support. On the 
production floor or in the office, Oshkosh Corporation employees' 
remarkable dedication can be seen throughout the organization. I have 
been honored to meet many of these talented workers, including speaking 
with hundreds at a recent all-hands call at the Oshkosh Defense 
facility in Wisconsin.
  Oshkosh's success has also lifted the fortunes of hundreds of 
Wisconsin companies throughout its various supply chains. Oshkosh is a 
true linchpin of my home State's manufacturing economy, and both its 
commercial and government programs support thousands of good-paying, 
skilled jobs. Just last year, I had the opportunity to partner with 
Oshkosh Defense and the Wisconsin Procurement Institute to strengthen 
this vibrant network by convening an event to build relationship's 
between Wisconsin suppliers and Federal agencies.
  I would also like to commend the company's current leadership, 
including president and CEO Wilson Jones, and John Bryant, the 
president of Oshkosh's defense unit, both of whom I have had the 
pleasure of working with over the years. Similarly, I want to recognize 
the tremendous contributions made by their immediate predecessors, 
Charles Szews and John Urias, respectively. The steady hand provided by 
these leaders will ensure that the company is an integral part of 
Wisconsin's economy for another 100 years.
  Now, 100 years after the creation of ``Old Betsy,'' Oshkosh 
Corporation and its brands continue to lead the industry; yet the 
company has remained firmly committed to its strong ethics and 
employee-centric culture. For the last ten decades, Oshkosh Corporation 
has cemented its international reputation for innovation and 
excellence. I know Oshkosh leadership and frontline employees will 
continue to hold themselves to this high standard, as they continue to 
grow and contribute to our great Wisconsin economy. I am so pleased to 
add my voice in celebrating this monumental anniversary.

                          ____________________



