

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3225]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, May 25, 2017 at 
10 a.m., in 328A Russell Senate Office Building, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Examining the Farm Economy: Perspectives on Rural 
America.''


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, May 25, 2017 at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on the posture of the Department of the 
Army in review of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year 
2018 and the Future Years Defense Program.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Thursday, May 25, 2017, at 9:45 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building in Washington, DC, to consider the nominations of Mr. 
Dan R. Brouillette to be Deputy Secretary of Energy and Mr. Neil 
Chatterjee and Mr. Robert F. Powelson to be Members of the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, May 25, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen Senate 
Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Fiscal Year 2018 
Budget Proposals for the Department of Treasury and Tax Reform.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on May 25, 2017 at 9:30 a.m., to hold a business 
meeting.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Senate Select Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate, on May 25, 2017, following the first 
floor vote in the Capitol, to conduct an executive business meeting. 
Agenda is attached.


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, May 25, 2017 from 2 p.m. in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a closed Member briefing.


 Subcommittee on Multilateral International Development, Multilateral 
  Institutions, and International Economic, Energy, and Environmental 
                                 Policy

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Multilateral 
International Development, Multilateral Institutions, and International 
Economic, Energy, and Environmental Policy is authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on Thursday, May 25, 2017 at 2 p.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Assessing the United Nations Human Rights 
Council.''


                     Subcommittee on Investigation

  The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on Thursday, May 25, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. in 
order to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Stopping the Shipment of 
Synthetic Opioids: Oversight of U.S. Strategy to Combat Illicit 
Drugs.''

                          ____________________



