

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6239-H6241]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1415
                      PLUM ISLAND PRESERVATION ACT

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2182) to require the Comptroller General of the United 
States to submit a report to Congress on the alternatives for the final 
disposition of Plum Island, including preservation of the island for 
conservation, education, and research, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2182

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Plum Island Preservation 
     Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds the following:
       (1) The Federal Government has owned Plum Island, New York, 
     since 1899.
       (2) Since 1954, the Plum Island Animal Disease Center has 
     conducted unrivaled scientific research on a variety of 
     infectious animal-borne diseases, including foot-and-mouth 
     disease, resulting, most recently, in the development of a 
     new cell line that rapidly and reliably detects this highly 
     debilitating disease of livestock.
       (3) Over 62 years, the Center has had a strong, proven 
     record of safety.
       (4) $23,200,000 in Federal dollars have been spent on 
     upgrades to, and the maintenance of, the Center since January 
     2012.
       (5) In addition to the Center, Plum Island contains 
     cultural, historical, ecological, and natural resources of 
     regional and national significance.
       (6) Plum Island is situated where the Long Island Sound and 
     Peconic Bay meet, both of which are estuaries that are part 
     of the National Estuary Program and are environmentally and 
     economically significant to the region.
       (7) The Federal Government has invested hundreds of 
     millions of Federal dollars over the last two decades to make 
     long-term improvements with respect to the conservation and 
     management needs of Long Island Sound and Peconic Bay.
       (8) In a report submitted to Congress on April 11, 2016, 
     entitled ``National Bio- and Agro-Defense Facility 
     Construction Plan Update'' the Department of Homeland 
     Security noted that the new National Bio- and Agro-Defense 
     Facility under construction on such date in Manhattan, 
     Kansas, is, as of such date, fully paid for through a 
     combination of Federal appropriations and funding from the 
     State of Kansas.

     SEC. 3. REPORT REQUIRED ON FINAL DISPOSITION OF PLUM ISLAND.

       Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     submit to Congress a report containing the following:
       (1) The alternatives for the final disposition of Plum 
     Island, including the transfer of ownership to another 
     Federal agency, a State or local government, a nonprofit 
     organization, or a combination thereof for the purpose of 
     education, research, or conservation.
       (2) With respect to each such alternative final 
     disposition, an analysis of--
       (A) the effect such disposition would have on the island's 
     resources;
       (B) the remediation responsibilities under such 
     disposition;
       (C) any future legislation necessary to implement such 
     disposition;
       (D) the possible implications and issues, if any, of 
     implementing such disposition;
       (E) the costs of such disposition, including any potential 
     costs related to the transition, hazard mitigation, and 
     cleanup of property that would be incurred by a recipient of 
     the property under such disposition; and
       (F) the potential revenue from such disposition.

     SEC. 4. SUSPENSION OF ACTION.

       No action, including any pre-sale marketing activity, may 
     be taken to carry out section 538 of title V of division D of 
     the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-74; 
     125 Stat. 976) until at least 180 days after the report 
     required by section 3 has been submitted to Congress.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Donovan) and the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Payne) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New York.


                             General Leave

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2182, the Plum Island 
Preservation Act, sponsored by my colleague from New York (Mr. Zeldin).
  This bill requires the Government Accountability Office to review the 
alternatives for the final disposition of the Department of Homeland 
Security's Science and Technology Directorate's Plum Island Animal 
Disease Center, commonly known as Plum Island.
  Since 1954, Plum Island, located in Suffolk County, New York, has 
served the Nation in defending against accidental or intentional 
introduction of foreign animal diseases, including foot-and-mouth 
disease. However, Plum Island's facilities are aging and nearing the 
end of their life cycle.
  That is why in 2005, DHS announced that the work being conducted on 
Plum Island would be moved to a new Federal facility in Kansas. Plum 
Island will continue to operate until the National Bio and Agro-Defense 
Facility is fully operational and a complete transition has been made 
in 2022 or 2023.
  This raises the question of what will happen to Plum Island once its 
activities are fully transferred over to the

[[Page H6240]]

new facility. The Department looked at this issue and, in June of 2016, 
released a report that reviewed several options for the final 
disposition of Plum Island.
  This bill simply requires GAO to review and analyze these 
alternatives to ensure all necessary information was taken into account 
before the Department decides how to move forward with the final 
disposition of Plum Island. Specifically, GAO is to analyze the 
effects, possible implications and issues, and potential costs and 
revenue for each disposition.
  Finally, H.R. 2182 suspends the sale of Plum Island until GAO 
completes this thorough review and analysis of alternatives.
  My friend, Representative Zeldin, introduced H.R. 2182 with strong 
bipartisan support. H.R. 2182 is very similar to a bill that passed the 
House by voice vote last May.
  In conclusion, this bill ensures that there is adequate consideration 
of all the options for the disposition of the island.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to join me in supporting this bill, 
and I reserve the balance of my time.

         House of Representatives, Committee on Transportation and 
           Infrastructure,
                                    Washington, DC, July 25, 2017.
     Hon. Michael McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman McCaul: I write concerning H.R. 2182, the 
     Plum Island Preservation Act. This legislation includes 
     matters that fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
       In order to expedite floor consideration of H.R. 2182, the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure will forgo 
     action on this bill. However, this is conditional on our 
     mutual understanding that forgoing consideration of the bill 
     would not prejudice the Committee with respect to the 
     appointment of conferees or to any future jurisdictional 
     claim over the subject matters contained in the bill or 
     similar legislation that fall within the Committee's Rule X 
     jurisdiction. I request you urge the Speaker to name members 
     of the Committee to any conference committee named to 
     consider such provisions.
       Please place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest in the 
     Congressional Record during House Floor consideration of the 
     bill. I look forward to working with the Committee on 
     Homeland Security as the bill moves through the legislative 
     process.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Bill Shuster,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Homeland Security,

                                    Washington, DC, July 25, 2017.
     Hon. Bill Shuster,
     Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Shuster: Thank you for your letter regarding 
     H.R. 2182. I appreciate your support in bringing this 
     legislation before the House of Representatives, and 
     accordingly, understand that the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure will not seek a sequential referral on the 
     bill.
       The Committee on Homeland Security concurs with the mutual 
     understanding that by forgoing a sequential referral of this 
     bill at this time, the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure does not waive any jurisdiction over the 
     subject matter contained in this bill or similar legislation 
     in the future. In addition, should a conference on this bill 
     be necessary, I would support your request to have the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure represented on 
     the conference committee.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during consideration of this bill on the House floor. 
     I thank you for your cooperation in this matter.
           Sincerely,

                                            Michael T. McCaul,

                                                         Chairman,
                                   Committee on Homeland Security.

  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2182, the Plum Island 
Preservation Act.
  Mr. Speaker, since 1954, the Plum Island Animal Disease Center in New 
York's Long Island has served as the Nation's principal laboratory 
responsible for research on foreign animal diseases of livestock, such 
as foot-and-mouth disease and other animal diseases.
  At Plum Island, the Department of Homeland Security works with the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture to research and develop new vaccines and 
diagnostic tests for animal disease outbreaks and to defend against 
international or accidental introduction of animal diseases into the 
United States.
  On September 11, 2005, the Department of Homeland Security announced 
plans to develop the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility, or NBAF, 
as a state-of-the-art biocontainment laboratory for the study of 
diseases that threaten both America's animal agricultural industry and 
public health.
  As envisioned by DHS, the 580,000-square-foot facility would replace 
the Plum Island laboratory.
  Following an extensive selection process, DHS selected a site in 
Manhattan, Kansas, for the new lab, and the site is slated to be fully 
operational by December of 2022.
  What H.R. 2182 aims to answer is what will happen to Plum Island when 
DHS vacates the facility.
  DHS is currently studying the range of options for disposition of the 
property, including transferring it to another Federal agency, a State 
or local government, or a nonprofit organization for the purposes of 
education, research, or conservation.
  In doing so, DHS is expected to assess the full implications of each 
option, including cost, cleanup, and hazard mitigation.
  H.R. 2182 requires the Government Accountability Office, or GAO, to 
assess whether the forthcoming study is satisfactory to support a 
decision. In the event that the study is lacking in a key area, GAO 
would be required to conduct its own study.
  Importantly, H.R. 2182 ensures that Plum Island cannot be sold by the 
Federal Government to the highest bidder.
  Under this bill, the sale of Plum Island is prohibited until at least 
180 days after the required reports in the bill have been submitted to 
Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
distinguished gentleman from New York (Mr. Zeldin), the sponsor of the 
bill.
  Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Donovan for his support.
  I rise today in support of H.R. 2182, to prevent the sale of Plum 
Island by the Federal Government to the highest bidder.
  Situated at the gateway of the Long Island Sound, I personally had 
the pleasure of visiting this treasured island.
  In addition to being a critical resource for research, approximately 
90 percent of the land on Plum Island has been sheltered from 
development, offering Long Island a diverse wildlife and ecosystem and 
critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants.
  Plum Island is also an essential cultural and historical resource as 
well, with recorded history dating back to the 1700s.
  The island held the U.S. military's Fort Terry, a coastal defense 
fortification, which was used through the end of World War II.
  Since then, Plum Island has been utilized as a research laboratory 
and has since grown to become what is known today as the Plum Island 
Animal Disease Center.
  In 2005, the Department of Homeland Security, which currently has 
jurisdiction over the island, announced that the Animal Disease Center 
research would be moved to a new Federal facility, the National Bio and 
Agro-Defense Facility, NBAF, in Kansas.
  To offset the cost of this relocation, a law was enacted that called 
for the private sale of Plum Island by the Federal Government to the 
highest bidder.
  However, because of the costs associated with the cleanup and closure 
of Plum Island, and because of local zoning restrictions, the Federal 
Government would receive little compensation for the sale of Plum 
Island.
  Also, in the 12 years since the move to Kansas was approved, the new 
facility in Kansas is already fully paid for by a combination of 
Federal appropriations and State and private funds.
  Allowing for continued research, public access, and permanent 
preservation of the island, H.R. 2182 will suspend the laws passed in 
2008 and 2011 that mandated the public sale of Plum Island.
  This bill will commission the Government Accountability Office, in 
consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently 
owns the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of 
the island.
  It requires the plan focus on conservation, education, and research 
and include alternative uses for the island, including a transfer of 
ownership to another Federal agency, the State or

[[Page H6241]]

local government, a nonprofit, or a combination thereof.
  In the 114th Congress, this bill passed the House unanimously with 
bipartisan support as H.R. 1887.
  My amendment to the Financial Services and General Government 
Appropriations Act of 2017, H.R. 5485, which would have prohibited any 
of the funding within the appropriations bill to market or sell Plum 
Island, also passed the House as well.
  I would like to thank the other Members of Congress who have 
cosponsored this legislation and lent their support to this cause, 
especially my colleagues from Connecticut, Congressman Joe Courtney and 
Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro.
  I would also like to thank House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy for 
bringing this bill to the floor, House Homeland Security Chairman 
Michael McCaul, and all of the local elected officials, groups, and 
concerned residents on Long Island who have taken an issue on this 
important issue.

  This bill is endorsed by the Preserve Plum Island Coalition, an 
alliance of over 65 community and environmental groups in New York and 
Connecticut, focused on the conservation of this island.
  I am proud to work alongside all of these great individuals and 
groups as we strive to save Plum Island.
  Since taking office in 2015, one of my highest local priorities has 
been to protect Plum Island. Preserving this island's natural beauty, 
while maintaining a research mission, will continue to provide 
important economic and environmental benefits for Long Island.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to vote in support of 
this critical bill, as well as for the Senate to pass this legislation, 
so it may be signed into law this year.
  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Connecticut (Mr. Courtney).
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Payne for his leadership on 
the Homeland Security Committee and also for his hard work on this 
legislation, which, again, has been closely watched back home in 
Connecticut and on the other side of Long Island Sound, as Mr. Zeldin 
indicated as well, in the State of New York.
  Again, I rise in strong support, with my colleague, for passage of 
H.R. 2182, the Plum Island Preservation Act. This has been an effort 
that has been ongoing since Congress, unfortunately, took, I think, a 
wrong turn when they enacted legislation in 2009, with the goal of 
trying to create funding for the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility 
in Kansas; but in the process of doing that, it set up a truncated sale 
of this property, which really deviated from the normal GSA process of 
trying to exhaust other beneficial uses before putting it up for sale 
to the highest bidder.
  Again, that has been the struggle for people on both sides of the 
Long Island Sound, who have been frustrated by the fact that, because 
Congress mandated a sale without any other options, the incredible, 
pristine environmental quality of this precious piece of property was 
basically pushed down the food chain in terms of, again, the way the 
Federal Government was operating.
  Again, I think it is important to recognize--and my colleagues from 
New York, Mr. Donovan and Mr. Zeldin, understand this--this still is 
the most densely populated area of America. The boat traffic, the 
maritime traffic that flows through Long Island Sound, again, is the 
busiest in the country. And to have a piece of property that is this 
precious and this pure--which Mr. Zeldin visited, and I think he can 
attest to that personally, and I have sailed past it--is really an 
opportunity that really we just cannot possibly allow to go to a 
developer that would make that quality forever lost.
  So this legislation, which stops the 2009 process in its tracks, has 
GAO step in and do a full complete analysis across the board in 
evaluating all options. In particular, the options of preserving this 
unique environmental asset is the right move for our country, and, 
again, it will be to the benefit of generations to come.
  Again, I want to congratulate Mr. Zeldin for his persistence. Again, 
we did get it through the last Congress, the 114th.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. PAYNE. I yield an additional 30 seconds to the gentleman.
  Mr. COURTNEY. I think getting this done early in the 115th Congress 
will hopefully allow us the opportunity to get some bandwidth in the 
Senate's floor schedule to finally get this to the President's desk, 
and, again, forever protect an asset for generations to come.
  Mr. Speaker, again, I urge strong support for this measure.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro).
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
legislation.
  It is very simple. It directs the Comptroller General of the United 
States to submit a report to the Congress on alternative uses for Plum 
Island.

                              {time}  1430

  The report underscores its ecological significance, that is what it 
would do; the need to be protected; and it would be an important step 
toward identifying conservation alternatives to selling Plum Island.
  I believe that Plum Island should be a unit of the National Wildlife 
Refuge System, ensuring that we would safeguard the island's sensitive 
wildlife and ecological value.
  Plum Island is the largest area in southern New England, where seals 
can rest on dry land. Its 843 acres are home to two threatened bird 
species: the piping plovers and the roseate terns.
  We need to proceed very carefully when considering the future of Plum 
Island. This is a refuge for wildlife and native plants, and once it is 
developed, it cannot be restored, which is why the legislation is so 
important.
  By evaluating the alternative uses for Plum Island fully rather than 
selling it to the highest bidder, we can ensure that this ecological, 
historical, and cultural treasure can be protected for generations to 
come.
  I am proud to join with my colleagues, Congressman Zeldin and 
Congressman Courtney, on a bipartisan basis to ensure that the 
environment is respected in our region and across the country.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I thank 
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Payne) for yielding me the time.
  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2182 has broad support on both sides of 
the aisle, as we can see. Plum Island has a history dating back to the 
1700s and has been owned by the Federal Government since 1899. This 
bill takes steps to ensure that this culturally and historically 
important site is not sold until all relevant questions are answered 
regarding the final disposition of Plum Island and that a satisfactory 
comprehensive plan has been developed.
  I urge my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I, once again, urge my colleagues to 
support H.R. 2182.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Donovan) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2182.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



