

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H3003]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               MEMORIALS

  Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials were presented and referred as 
follows:

       27. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of the Legislature of 
     the State of Idaho, relative to House Joint Memorial No. 9, 
     calling upon the U.S. Air Force, the Administration and 
     Congress to thoroughly and conscientiously evaluate the 
     utility and efficacy of basing a squadron of F-35 Lightning 
     II Joint Strike Fighter aircraft at Gowen Field in Boise, 
     Idaho, to facilitate a continued flying mission for the Idaho 
     Air National Guard; to the Committee on Armed Services.
       28. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Idaho, relative to House Joint Memorial No. 7, urging 
     President Trump, Secretary Price and Congress to take the 
     following action: Allow individual states to once again serve 
     as the primary regulator of health insurance plans and 
     immediately permit the free market availability and sale of 
     nonsubsidized health insurance plans in accordance with 
     state-established statutes, regulations and rules governing 
     such plans; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
       29. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Idaho, relative to House Joint Memorial No. 2, supporting 
     actions by the Governor and the Attorney General to oppose 
     passage and introduction of salmon or steelhead above Hells 
     Canyon Dam, that are necessary to protect Idaho's 
     sovereignty, including its waters and property rights; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
       30. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Idaho, relative to House Joint Memorial No. 4, encouraging 
     western states and the federal government to establish 
     cooperative and coordinated efforts with the State of Idaho 
     to prevent, to whatever extent possible, through efforts 
     including inspections, decontamination policies, enforcement 
     of invasive species laws and rapid response protocols, 
     further spread of the dreissenid mussels, and containment 
     where established, until such time as viable tools for 
     eradication are discovered; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
       31. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Idaho, relative to House Joint Memorial No. 8, urging 
     Congress to appropriate $8 million of the authorized $20 
     million for FY 2018 to the four Northwest states of Idaho, 
     Montana, Oregon, and Washington, according to the Water 
     Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN); to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
       32. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Idaho, relative to House Joint Memorial No. 6, urging that 
     United States farmers, ranchers and food processors be 
     enabled to compete freely and trade fairly in foreign and 
     domestic markets on a strictly level playing field; jointly 
     to the Committees on Agriculture and Education and the 
     Workforce.
       33. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Idaho, relative to House Joint Memorial No. 3, supporting the 
     Department of Energy, the Administration and Congress to 
     identify, commit and sustain the necessary funding to allow 
     the Department of Energy to continue to make progress at 
     meeting its cleanup milestones to benefit the citizens of 
     Idaho and its environment; jointly to the Committees on 
     Energy and Commerce and Science, Space, and Technology.

                          ____________________



