

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4601-H4607]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following

[[Page H4602]]

titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             Pelosi, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Crowley, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan 
             of New Mexico, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Ms. Norton, Ms. Moore, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Clay, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Takano, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. Lee, Mr. Khanna, 
             Mr. Norcross, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Payne, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Raskin, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Rush, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Mr. Courtney, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Soto, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. 
             Nadler, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
             Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Johnson 
             of Georgia, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Visclosky, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Maxine Waters 
             of California, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Polis, Mr. Levin, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. 
             Titus, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Cardenas, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Carbajal, 
             Mr. Beyer, Ms. Pingree, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             Brown of Maryland, Miss Rice of New York, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bass, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Al Green 
             of Texas, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Gene 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Engel, 
             Ms. Meng, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             Vargas, Ms. Gabbard, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Kelly 
             of Illinois, Mr. Peters, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Heck, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Evans, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Crist, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Walz, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 15. A bill to provide for increases in the Federal 
     minimum wage, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, Mr. Takano, and Mr. Young of Iowa):
       H.R. 2650. A bill to amend the Age Discrimination in 
     Employment Act of 1967 and other laws to clarify appropriate 
     standards for Federal employment discrimination and 
     retaliation claims, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 2651. A bill to improve the integrity and safety of 
     horseracing by requiring a uniform anti-doping and medication 
     control program to be developed and enforced by an 
     independent Horseracing Anti-Doping and Medication Control 
     Authority; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Moulton, Mr. O'Rourke, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Bergman, and Mr. Bost):
       H.R. 2652. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to conduct an independent review of the deaths of 
     certain veterans by suicide, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas (for herself, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Peters, Ms. Norton, Mr. Takano, Ms. Clark 
             of Massachusetts, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Price 
             of North Carolina, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             Beyer, and Mr. Lipinski):
       H.R. 2653. A bill to direct the Director of the Office of 
     Science and Technology Policy to carry out programs and 
     activities to ensure that Federal science agencies and 
     institutions of higher education receiving Federal research 
     and development funding are fully engaging their entire 
     talent pool, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. Amash, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Stewart, and 
             Mr. Buck):
       H.R. 2654. A bill to amend the provisions of title 40, 
     United States Code, commonly known as the Davis-Bacon Act, to 
     raise the threshold dollar amount of contracts subject to the 
     prevailing wage requirements of such provisions; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. EVANS:
       H.R. 2655. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to expand 
     intellectual property education and training for small 
     businesses, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small 
     Business, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. 
             Tsongas, and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 2656. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to 
     establish an Office of Public Participation and Consumer 
     Advocacy; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MASSIE (for himself, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Amash, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Labrador, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Meadows, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Wittman, and 
             Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 2657. A bill to amend the Federal Meat Inspection Act 
     to exempt from inspection the slaughter of animals and the 
     preparation of carcasses conducted at a custom slaughter 
     facility, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Sires, 
             and Mr. Diaz-Balart):
       H.R. 2658. A bill to provide humanitarian assistance for 
     the Venezuelan people, to defend democratic governance and 
     combat widespread public corruption in Venezuela, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Gaetz, Mr. Crist, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Vargas, Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 2659. A bill to authorized the establishment of a 
     program for cooperative research and development in 
     agriculture with the Government of Israel, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Foreign Affairs, and Appropriations, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALMER (for himself, Mr. Babin, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Brat, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, 
             Mr. Hudson, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, 
             and Mr. Davidson):
       H.R. 2660. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     provide exclusive original jurisdiction to the United States 
     District Court for the District of Columbia of certain cases 
     relating to the powers of the Executive, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. CHENEY (for herself and Mr. Pearce):
       H.R. 2661. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to 
     require the Secretary of the Interior to convey to a State 
     all right, title, and interest in and to a percentage of the 
     amount of royalties and other amounts required to be paid to 
     the State under that Act with respect to public land and 
     deposits in the State, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. 
             Mullin, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, and Mr. Cole):
       H.R. 2662. A bill to amend the Indian Health Care 
     Improvement Act to improve the recruitment and retention of 
     employees in the Indian Health Service, restore 
     accountability in the Indian Health Service, improve health 
     services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committees on Energy and 
     Commerce, Ways and Means, and Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MARCHANT (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 2663. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to make changes to documentation of eligibility 
     for Medicare home health services, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Sablan):
       H.R. 2664. A bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to train 
     certain Department of Labor

[[Page H4603]]

     personnel how to effectively detect and assist law 
     enforcement in preventing human trafficking during the course 
     of their primary roles and responsibilities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. Bergman, and Mr. 
             Gallagher):
       H.R. 2665. A bill to reduce the pay of Members of Congress 
     in any year following a fiscal year for which there was a 
     Federal budget deficit; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. 
             Pallone, Ms. Moore, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Gallagher, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. 
             Soto, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Issa, Mr. Buck, Mr. 
             Gallego, and Mr. Ratcliffe):
       H.R. 2666. A bill to amend the PROTECT Act to make Indian 
     tribes eligible for AMBER Alert grants; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
       H.R. 2667. A bill to restrict the use of funds for the 
     long-range standoff weapon until the Secretary of Defense 
     completes a Nuclear Posture Review that includes an 
     assessment of the capabilities and effects of the use of the 
     long-range standoff weapon, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Norton, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Polis, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Schakowsky, and 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts):
       H.R. 2668. A bill to reduce the number of nuclear-armed 
     submarines operated by the Navy, to prohibit the development 
     of a new long-range penetrating bomber aircraft, to prohibit 
     the procurement of new intercontinental ballistic missiles, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Schrader, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Beyer, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Raskin, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Takano, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Payne, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Pallone, and Ms. Judy Chu of California):
       H.R. 2669. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to allow all eligible voters to vote by mail in Federal 
     elections, to amend the National Voter Registration Act of 
     1993 to provide for automatic voter registration; to the 
     Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Ms. Barragan, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. 
             Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Evans, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Himes, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
             Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mr. Serrano, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Keating, Mr. Delaney, 
             and Mr. Hoyer):
       H.R. 2670. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     protect more victims of domestic violence by preventing their 
     abusers from possessing or receiving firearms, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Keating, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Cummings, and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 2671. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make permanent the credit for increasing research 
     activities, to increase such credit for amounts paid or 
     incurred for qualified research occurring in the United 
     States, and to increase the domestic production activities 
     deduction for the manufacture of property substantially all 
     of the research and development of which occurred in the 
     United States; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. Bost, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hultgren, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. LaHood, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Roskam, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schneider, 
             Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Rush, Mr. Lipinski, and Mr. 
             Kinzinger):
       H.R. 2672. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 520 Carter Street in 
     Fairview, Illinois, as the ``Sgt. Douglas J. Riney Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. Bost, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hultgren, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. LaHood, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Roskam, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schneider, 
             Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Rush, Mr. Lipinski, and Mr. 
             Kinzinger):
       H.R. 2673. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 514 Broadway Street in 
     Pekin, Illinois, as the ``Lance Corporal Jordan S. Bastean 
     Post Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
       H.R. 2674. A bill to establish a grant program in the 
     Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to fund the 
     establishment of centers of excellence to support research, 
     development and planning, implementation, and evaluation of 
     effective programs in financial literacy education for young 
     people and families ages 8 through 24 years old, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Posey, Mr. Cooper, 
             and Ms. Kaptur):
       H.R. 2675. A bill to require adequate information regarding 
     the tax treatment of payments under settlement agreements 
     entered into by Federal agencies, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
       H.R. 2676. A bill to require States to report to the 
     Attorney General certain information regarding use of force 
     incidents involving law enforcement officers and civilians, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself and Mrs. 
             Napolitano):
       H.R. 2677. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for behavioral and mental health outreach and 
     education strategies to reduce stigma associated with mental 
     health among the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific 
     Islander population; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr. Trott):
       H.R. 2678. A bill to require all Members, officers, and 
     employees of the House of Representatives to complete annual 
     ethics training, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. 
             Barletta, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Coffman, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Titus, and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 2679. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to improve service-connected disability determinations for 
     purposes of loan discharge; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. CRIST (for himself and Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 2680. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for a credit against tax for certain small 
     businesses hiring new employees; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
       H.R. 2681. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the age range at which the earned income tax 
     credit is allowed to former foster children and other 
     individuals without qualifying children; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
       H.R. 2682. A bill to support foster youth in successful 
     parenting by reducing unintended pregnancies and promoting 
     the well-being of expectant or parenting foster youth and 
     their children; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Hultgren, Ms. Sinema, 
             Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Rush, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, 
             Mr. Himes, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Courtney, and Mr. 
             Hastings):
       H.R. 2683. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     delay the inclusion in consumer credit reports and to 
     establish requirements for debt collectors with respect to 
     medical debt information of veterans due

[[Page H4604]]

     to inappropriate or delayed billing payments or 
     reimbursements from the Department of Veterans Affairs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 2684. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to modify the exception to the work requirement; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Polis, 
             and Mr. Himes):
       H.R. 2685. A bill to require the Secretary of Labor to 
     establish a pilot program for providing portable benefits to 
     eligible workers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
       H.R. 2686. A bill to codify the Small Business 
     Administration's Growth Accelerator Fund Competition, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia, and Mr. Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 2687. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with an option to provide medical 
     assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 64 for 
     inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at 
     certain facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas (for himself and Mr. 
             Richmond):
       H.R. 2688. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide the same level of Federal matching assistance 
     for every State that chooses to expand Medicaid coverage to 
     newly eligible individuals, regardless of when such expansion 
     takes place; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself and Mrs. Torres):
       H.R. 2689. A bill to prescribe procedures for effective 
     consultation and coordination by Federal agencies with 
     federally recognized Indian Tribes regarding Federal 
     Government activities that impact Tribal lands and interests 
     to ensure that meaningful Tribal input is an integral part of 
     the Federal decision-making process; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GUTIERREZ (for himself, Mr. Panetta, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Vela, Mr. Welch, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Soto, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Schneider, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Sires, Mr. Espaillat, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, and Mr. Jeffries):
       H.R. 2690. A bill to improve agricultural job 
     opportunities, benefits, and security for aliens in the 
     United States and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself and Mr. Diaz-Balart):
       H.R. 2691. A bill to amend the Water Resources Development 
     Act of 2000 to provide for expedited project implementation 
     relating to the comprehensive Everglades restoration plan; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
       H.R. 2692. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     eliminate the time limitation for use of eligibility and 
     entitlement to educational assistance under certain programs 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr. McClintock, and Mr. 
             Calvert):
       H.R. 2693. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to limit attorney fees and penalties in citizen 
     suits, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Dent, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Dunn, and Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 2694. A bill to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief 
     Act to enhance protections regarding voter registration, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Mr. McEachin, and Ms. 
             Barragan):
       H.R. 2695. A bill to establish an Office of Environmental 
     Justice in the Environmental Protection Agency and to 
     authorize an environmental justice small grants program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Mr. McEachin, and Ms. 
             Barragan):
       H.R. 2696. A bill to establish the Office of Environmental 
     Justice in the Executive Office of the President, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 2697. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require additional disclosures by creditors when lending to 
     members of the Armed Forces and their dependents, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 2698. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     allow veterans affected by school closures to continue 
     receiving monthly stipends under the Post-9/11 Educational 
     Assistance Program for a certain period, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 2699. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     more effectively provide mental health resources for members 
     of the Armed Forces at high risk of suicide, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. Polis, 
             and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 2700. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow employers a credit against income tax as an 
     incentive to partner with educational institutions to improve 
     workforce development and job training for students and a 
     credit against income tax for certain expenses of job 
     training programs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. King 
             of New York, Mr. Engel, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Neal, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Welch, and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H.R. 2701. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     the 23d Headquarters, Special Troops and the 3133rd Signal 
     Service Company, in recognition of their unique and highly 
     distinguished service as a ``Ghost Army'' that conducted 
     deception operations in Europe during World War II; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
       H.R. 2702. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     establish a commercialization assistance pilot program under 
     the SBIR program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Small Business, and in addition to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Norton, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Keating, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Rush, and Mr. 
             McGovern):
       H.R. 2703. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into 
     agreements with public and private entities to provide pro 
     bono legal services to homeless veterans and veterans at risk 
     of homelessness, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 2704. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     extend military commissary and exchange store privileges to 
     certain veterans who have been awarded the Purple Heart and 
     to their dependents; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr. Griffith, and Mr. 
             Russell):
       H.R. 2705. A bill to limit the applicability of the final 
     rule entitled ``Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Fuel Efficiency 
     Standards for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles-
     Phase 2`` to the extent such final rule relates to trailers 
     that do not themselves emit greenhouse gases in connection 
     with a propulsion system; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Budd, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Williams, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Hollingsworth, 
             Mr. Hultgren, Mr. MacArthur, and Ms. Tenney):
       H.R. 2706. A bill to provide requirements for the 
     appropriate Federal banking agencies when requesting or 
     ordering a depository institution to terminate a specific 
     customer account, to provide for additional requirements 
     related to subpoenas issued under the Financial Institutions 
     Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.

[[Page H4605]]

  

           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. 
             McKinley, and Mr. Pearce):
       H.R. 2707. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     establish an Ombudsman within the Veterans Health 
     Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, and Mr. 
             Cartwright):
       H.R. 2708. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     repeal the limitation on the number of veterans authorized to 
     be enrolled in programs of independent living services and 
     assistance administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Meeks, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 2709. A bill to increase the participation of 
     historically underrepresented demographic groups in science, 
     technology, engineering, and mathematics education and 
     industry; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 2710. A bill to establish a commission to study how 
     Federal laws and policies affect United States citizens 
     living in foreign countries; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Financial Services, Ways and Means, the Judiciary, House 
     Administration, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MARSHALL (for himself, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, 
             Mr. Yoder, Mr. McNerney, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Nolan, 
             and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 2711. A bill to designate a National Memorial to 
     Fallen Educators at the National Teachers Hall of Fame in 
     Emporia, Kansas; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Engel, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Poe of Texas, 
             Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Deutch, and Mr. Suozzi):
       H.R. 2712. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to 
     foreign support for Palestinian terrorism, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Jenkins of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, 
             Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Welch, Mr. Michael 
             F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Johnson 
             of Ohio, and Mr. Mooney of West Virginia):
       H.R. 2713. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain funds to the 1974 
     United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr. Massie, Mr. Labrador, 
             Mr. Sanford, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. 
             Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. Budd, Mr. Brat, and Mr. 
             Palmer):
       H.R. 2714. A bill to facilitate the use of outcome-based 
     performance standards by the Department of Transportation, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 2715. A bill to require refunds for delayed or lost 
     baggage; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 2716. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make certain 
     grants to assist nursing homes for veterans located on tribal 
     lands; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 2717. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to authorize certain aliens who have earned a Ph.D. 
     degree from a United States institution of higher education 
     in a field of science, technology, engineering, or 
     mathematics to be admitted for permanent residence and to be 
     exempted from the numerical limitations on H-1B 
     nonimmigrants; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Bera, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Rush, Mr. Schiff, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Vargas, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Panetta, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 2718. A bill to allow certain student loan borrowers 
     to refinance Federal student loans; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mr. King of New York, and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 2719. A bill to direct the Secretary of Commerce, 
     acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, to conduct coastal community 
     vulnerability assessments related to ocean acidification, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Mr. Larsen of Washington, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 2720. A bill to require notice of cost-free Federal 
     procurement technical assistance in connection with 
     registration of small business concerns in procurement 
     systems; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Gohmert, 
             Mr. Calvert, Mr. Delaney, and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 2721. A bill to allow seniors to file their Federal 
     income tax on a new Form 1040SR; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
       H.R. 2722. A bill to encourage the development, 
     certification, and adoption of environmentally sustainable 
     swine waste disposal technologies, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Woodall, Mr. Bilirakis, 
             Mr. Hudson, and Mr. Wilson of South Carolina):
       H.R. 2723. A bill to provide protections for workers with 
     respect to their right to select or refrain from selecting 
     representation by a labor organization; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ROHRABACHER (for himself and Mr. Carter of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 2724. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to replace the diversity visa program with a new program 
     under which an immigrant visa can be obtained by paying a fee 
     of $1,000,000, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and Homeland Security, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself and Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 2725. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for the refinancing of certain Federal student 
     loans; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, and Mr. Evans):
       H.R. 2726. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     pilot program to train individuals for employment in the 
     renewable energy and energy efficiency industries; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 2727. A bill to support the education of Indian 
     children; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 2728. A bill to require labeling of ingredients of 
     cleaning products, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUPPERSBERGER:
       H.R. 2729. A bill to direct National Security Council, in 
     consultation with the Director of National intelligence and 
     the Attorney General, to ensure that a mitigation process and 
     protocols are in place in the case of a disclosure of 
     classified information by the President, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select), and in addition to the Committees on Armed Services, 
     and Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 2730. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act 
     to eliminate premium subsidies for crop insurance for 
     tobacco; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 2731. A bill to amend the Agricultural Risk Protection 
     Act of 2000 to eliminate the authority of the Secretary of 
     Agriculture to make value-added agricultural product market 
     development grants to support the development, production, or 
     marketing of alcoholic beverages and to rescind a portion of 
     the Commodity Credit Corporation funds made available for 
     such grants; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself and Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina):
       H.R. 2732. A bill to prohibit travel-related transactions 
     to, from, and within North Korea by persons subject to the 
     jurisdiction

[[Page H4606]]

     of the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, and 
             Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 2733. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a pilot grant program to acquire and 
     renovate abandoned homes for homeless veterans; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER:
       H.R. 2734. A bill to require the Department of Commerce to 
     address the trade deficits between the United States and 
     other countries, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 2735. A bill to make certain footwear eligible for 
     duty-free treatment under the Generalized System of 
     Preferences, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. SUOZZI:
       H.R. 2736. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish free and 
     comprehensive mental health care to former members of the 
     Armed Services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TAKANO:
       H.R. 2737. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a study to evaluate the effectiveness of 
     programs, especially in regards to women veterans and 
     minority veterans, in transitioning to civilian life, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TAKANO:
       H.R. 2738. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the approval of certain programs of education for 
     purposes of educational assistance provided by the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TURNER (for himself and Ms. Tsongas):
       H.R. 2739. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     establish additional protections for victims of crimes 
     punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself and Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 2740. A bill to posthumously award a Congressional 
     gold medal to Rabbi Michoel Ber Weissmandl in recognition of 
     his acts of valor during World War II; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. WALKER:
       H.R. 2741. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide mandatory minimum terms of imprisonment for certain 
     trafficking offenses, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself and Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois):
       H.R. 2742. A bill to amend title IV of the Social Security 
     Act to require States to adopt an electronic system to help 
     expedite the placement of children in foster care or 
     guardianship, or for adoption, across State lines, and to 
     provide funding to aid States in developing such a system, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California:
       H.R. 2743. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require that proprietary institutions of higher education 
     derive not less than fifteen percent of revenues from sources 
     other than funds provided under title IV of such Act; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California:
       H.R. 2744. A bill to revise the 90-10 rule under the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 to count veterans' education benefits 
     under such rule, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Armed Services, and Veterans' Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Delaney, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Evans, Mr. Foster, Ms. Frankel of Florida, 
             Mr. Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Al Green of Texas, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lawson 
             of Florida, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Moore, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Payne, Ms. Pingree, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Sires, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Peters, and Ms. Blunt Rochester):
       H.R. 2745. A bill to amend title XXVII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to provide for a special enrollment period for 
     pregnant women, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Ways and Means, and Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico):
       H.R. 2746. A bill to amend title VI of the Public Utility 
     Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 to establish a Federal 
     renewable electricity standard for retail electricity 
     suppliers and a Federal energy efficiency resource standard 
     for electricity and natural gas suppliers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. 
             Kinzinger, Mr. Rush, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, 
             Mr. Ellison, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 2747. A bill to catalyze market-based economic growth 
     in developing countries, create opportunities for the private 
     sector of the United States to effectively engage in foreign 
     assistance programs, improve planning and coordination among 
     relevant United States departments and agencies, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Crist, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, Mrs. Radewagen, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Mast, Mr. Huffman, and Mr. 
             LoBiondo):
       H.R. 2748. A bill to reauthorize and amend the Marine 
     Debris Act to promote international action to reduce marine 
     debris, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. AMASH (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Massie, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Jones, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.J. Res. 102. A joint resolution relating to the 
     disapproval of the proposed export to the Government of the 
     Kingdom of Saudi Arabia of certain defense articles; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. GIBBS (for himself, Mr. Gosar, and Mr. 
             Loudermilk):
       H.J. Res. 103. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of Labor 
     relating to ``Improve Tracking of Workplace Injuries and 
     Illnesses``; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. Khanna, 
             Mr. McGovern, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Conyers, and Mr. 
             Pocan):
       H.J. Res. 104. A joint resolution to provide limitations on 
     the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United 
     States to Saudi Arabia; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. Pocan, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Clay, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Khanna, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Huffman, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Takano, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Conyers, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
             Mr. McGovern, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Nadler, 
             Ms. Pingree, and Ms. Clark of Massachusetts):
       H. Con. Res. 63. Concurrent resolution supporting efforts 
     to enact a bold jobs and infrastructure package that benefits 
     all Americans, not just billionaires; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Cramer, and Mr. Huizenga):
       H. Res. 357. A resolution reaffirming the strategic 
     partnership between the United States and Canada, recognizing 
     bilateral cooperation that advances United States national 
     interests, and urging increased bilateral cooperation on 
     security, economic issues, and energy, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Crist, Mr. Posey, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Perlmutter, and 
             Mr. Kennedy):
       H. Res. 358. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of May 25 as ``National Moonshot Day'' and 
     recognizing the importance of conquering scientific 
     challenges from medicine to space and beyond; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Mr. Bilirakis, Mrs. Davis 
             of California, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Zeldin, and Mr. Schneider):

[[Page H4607]]

  

       H. Res. 359. A resolution urging the European Union to 
     designate Hizballah in its entirety as a terrorist 
     organization and increase pressure on it and its members; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Price of 
             North Carolina, and Mr. Brown of Maryland):
       H. Res. 360. A resolution honoring the 100th anniversary of 
     the 82nd Airborne Division; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Foster, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             Fudge, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Schneider, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. DeGette, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Payne, 
             Ms. Plaskett, Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Moore, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Khanna, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Richmond, and 
             Mr. Clay):
       H. Res. 361. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of ``National Gun Violence Awareness Day`` and ''National Gun 
     Violence Awareness Month''; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. McEACHIN (for himself, Ms. Jayapal, and Ms. 
             Barragan):
       H. Res. 362. A resolution affirming the need to achieve 
     environmental justice, commending the work of environmental 
     justice advocates, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. NOLAN (for himself, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Walz, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Lee, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, and Mr. Evans):
       H. Res. 363. A resolution supporting a Federal, publically 
     funded universal school meal and nutrition program; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H. Res. 364. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the need to eliminate partisan 
     redistricting and gerrymandering; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H. Res. 365. A resolution recognizing the denial of full 
     voting rights in Congress for active duty service members, 
     National Guard members, reservists, veterans, and their 
     families who are District of Columbia residents; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself and Ms. Lee):
       H. Res. 366. A resolution recognizing and commemorating St. 
     Joseph's School and their service to the El Paso community; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Mr. 
             Aguilar, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Capuano, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Clay, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Cummings, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. DeFazio, Mrs. Demings, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Evans, Mr. Foster, Ms. Fudge, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Keating, Ms. Kelly 
             of Illinois, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mrs. Lawrence, 
             Mr. Levin, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Ms. Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             McNerney, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Raskin, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Scott 
             of Virginia, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Sires, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Speier, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Tonko, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Adams, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Lee, Mr. Veasey, 
             Mr. Richmond, Mr. Polis, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Gabbard, 
             Mr. Crist, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Soto, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Engel, 
             Mr. Himes, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Correa, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Ms. Kaptur, and Mrs. 
             Murphy of Florida):
       H. Res. 367. A resolution establishing the Select Committee 
     on Gun Violence Prevention; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Ms. Eshoo, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Gutierrez, and Mr. 
             Ruppersberger):
       H. Res. 368. A resolution disapproving of the irresponsible 
     actions and negligence of President Trump which may have 
     caused grave harm to United States national security; to the 
     Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), and in addition 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WITTMAN:
       H. Res. 369. A resolution recognizing May 29, 2017, as 
     ``National 529 Day''; to the Committee on Ways and Means.

                          ____________________



