

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2650]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Booker, Mr. Franken, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Peters, and Ms. 
             Harris):
       S. 991. A bill to prohibit drilling in the Arctic Ocean; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. McCAIN (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Mr. Tillis, and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 992. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to conduct an independent review of the deaths of certain 
     veterans by suicide, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Cotton, Mr. 
             Cruz, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Paul, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Sasse, 
             and Mr. Inhofe):
       S. 993. A bill to prohibit the Federal Communications 
     Commission from reclassifying broadband Internet access 
     service as a telecommunications service and from imposing 
     certain regulations on providers of such service; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 994. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for the protection of community centers with 
     religious affiliation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 995. A bill to provide for equitable compensation to the 
     Spokane Tribe of Indians of the Spokane Reservation for the 
     use of tribal land for the production of hydropower by the 
     Grand Coulee Dam, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. HEINRICH:
       S. 996. A bill to improve college affordability; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASEY:
       S. 997. A bill to permit employees to request, and to 
     ensure employers consider requests for, flexible work terms 
     and conditions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 998. A bill to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to protect 
     personally identifiable information and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Markey, Ms. Warren, 
             Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Booker, Mr. Reed, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Van Hollen, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Hassan, 
             and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 999. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
     Act to permanently prohibit the conduct of offshore drilling 
     on the outer Continental Shelf in the Mid-Atlantic, South 
     Atlantic, North Atlantic, and Straits of Florida planning 
     areas; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Brown, 
             Ms. Warren, and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1000. A bill to amend the Occupational Safety and Health 
     Act of 1970 to expand coverage under the Act, to increase 
     protections for whistleblowers, to increase penalties for 
     high gravity violations, to adjust penalties for inflation, 
     to provide rights for victims or their family members, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



