

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2450-S2451]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 26

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 26, a bill to amend the 
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require the disclosure of certain 
tax returns by Presidents and certain candidates for the office of the 
President, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 234

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 234, a bill to provide 
incentives for businesses to keep jobs in America.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Graham) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 253, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient rehabilitation 
therapy caps.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the 
Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were added as cosponsors of S. 339, a 
bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement 
for reduction of survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by 
veterans' dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 474, a bill to condition assistance to the 
West Bank and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian Authority to end 
violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens.


                                 S. 477

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the 
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) were added as cosponsors of S. 477, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to coordinate Federal congenital heart 
disease research and surveillance efforts and to improve public 
education and awareness of congenital heart disease, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 493

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors

[[Page S2451]]

of S. 493, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for 
the removal or demotion of employees of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs based on performance or misconduct, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill 
to expand eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for 
family caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand 
benefits available to participants under such program, to enhance 
special compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 792

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 792, a bill to 
amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to establish an H-2B 
temporary non-agricultural work visa program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 815

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 815, a bill to amend titles 
XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act to make premium and cost-
sharing subsidies available to low-income Medicare part D beneficiaries 
who reside in Puerto Rico or another territory of the United States.


                                 S. 828

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 828, a bill to amend the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require the appropriate Federal 
banking agencies to treat certain municipal obligations as level 2B 
liquid assets, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 829, a bill to reauthorize the Assistance to 
Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and Safety Grants 
program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response 
grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 870

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 870, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to implement Medicare payment policies designed to improve 
management of chronic disease, streamline care coordination, and 
improve quality outcomes without adding to the deficit.


                                 S. 881

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 881, a bill to reduce 
risks to the financial system by limiting banks' ability to engage in 
certain risky activities and limiting conflicts of interest, to 
reinstate certain Glass-Steagall Act protections that were repealed by 
the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and for other purposes.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 7, a concurrent resolution expressing the 
sense of Congress that tax-exempt fraternal benefit societies have 
historically provided and continue to provide critical benefits to the 
people and communities of the United States.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who served in 
the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of Vietnam 
during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 
1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of Vietnam for 
all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.

                          ____________________



