

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4931]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   EXPRESSING GRATITUDE FOR THE HEROIC ACTIONS OF THE UNITED STATES 
 CAPITOL POLICE AND OTHER FIRST RESPONDERS IN THE ATTACK ON MEMBERS OF 
CONGRESS ON JUNE 14, 2017, AND EXPRESSING HOPE FOR A FULL RECOVERY FOR 
                              THE INJURED

  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I send to the desk a resolution and ask 
unanimous consent for its immediate consideration in the House and, 
further, ask unanimous consent that it be read in full.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the Clerk will report the 
resolution.
  There was no objection.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:

                              H. Res. 385

       Whereas on June 14, 2017, an armed gunman opened fire at a 
     practice for the annual Congressional Baseball Game for 
     Charity, wounding five individuals;
       Whereas United States Capitol Police Special Agents Crystal 
     Griner, David Bailey, and Henry Cabrera responded decisively 
     to the attack, risking their own lives to save the lives of 
     others;
       Whereas Special Agent Griner, who has been a member of the 
     Capitol Police since July 2008, was wounded in the course of 
     confronting and subduing the attacker;
       Whereas Special Agent Bailey, who has been a member of the 
     Capitol Police since April 2008, was wounded in the course of 
     confronting and subduing the attacker;
       Whereas Matthew (Matt) Mika, who was formerly a legislative 
     aide for Representative Nick Smith, Representative Dave Camp, 
     and Representative Tim Walberg, was wounded in the attack;
       Whereas Zachary (Zack) Barth, a legislative aide to 
     Representative Roger Williams, was injured in the attack; and
       Whereas Representative Steve Scalise, who has served the 
     first congressional district of Louisiana since 2008, husband 
     of Jennifer Scalise and father to Madison and Harrison, was 
     wounded in the attack: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
       (1) expresses its deep gratitude to United States Capitol 
     Police Special Agents Griner, Bailey, and Cabrera who bravely 
     placed themselves in harm's way to protect and save the lives 
     of scores of individuals;
       (2) expresses its appreciation for the daily courage and 
     dedication of the United States Capitol Police who protect 
     the Capitol grounds, Members of Congress, and the public, to 
     whom the Capitol belongs;
       (3) expresses its thanks to the Alexandria Police 
     Department, Alexandria Sheriff's Office, and Alexandria Fire 
     Department for responding swiftly and effectively to aid the 
     United States Capitol Police officers on the scene;
       (4) expresses its thanks to the first responders and health 
     care professionals who tended to the victims;
       (5) expresses its hope for a speedy and full recovery for 
     the injured;
       (6) reaffirms that an attack on any Member of Congress is 
     an attack on every Member, on the institution, and on the 
     very principle of representative democracy; and
       (7) stands firm in its belief that violence has no place in 
     a pluralistic society where differences are settled through 
     debate, ballots, and a legislative process, which rests at 
     the bedrock of our representative democracy.

  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



