

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S870]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGES

                                 ______
                                 

  SIX-MONTH PERIODIC REPORT ON THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO 
LIBYA THAT WAS ORIGINALLY DECLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER 13566 OF FEBRUARY 
  25, 2011, RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT OF THE SENATE ON FEBRUARY 9, 
                              2018--PM 26

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days before the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566 
of February 25, 2011, with respect to Libya is to continue in effect 
beyond February 25, 2018.
  Colonel Muammar Qadhafi, his government, and close associates took 
extreme measures against the people of Libya, including using weapons 
of war, mercenaries, and wanton violence against unarmed civilians. 
There remains a serious risk that former members of the Qadhafi 
government, members of the Qadhafi family, the Qadhafi family's close 
associates, or others determined to undermine the United Nations peace 
process might misappropriate Libyan state assets. The diversion of 
these resources could prolong and deepen the current instability in 
Libya, which would benefit the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and 
other terrorist groups and pose a serious risk to the national security 
of the United States and the security of regional partners.
  A strong and united Libya is the best defense against terrorism in 
the region. The violence among Libyans that began in Benghazi in May 
2014, and spread thereafter to Tripoli and throughout the country, has 
destabilized the country. Until Libyans resolve their underlying 
political divisions, there will remain a significant threat of civil 
conflict in Libya. Many of the ongoing political divisions are over 
power and access to Libya's resources, and further destabilization is 
possible were sanctions to be lifted. We continue to encourage Libyans 
to engage in political dialogue and refrain from violence. Those who 
reject dialogue and obstruct or undermine Libya's democratic transition 
must be held accountable. While we work with the international 
community to identify those individuals who pose a threat to Libya's 
democratic transition, we must also continue to ensure that appropriate 
sanctions remain in place.
  The situation in Libya continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary 
threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United 
States, and measures are needed to protect against the diversion of 
assets or other abuses by members of Qadhafi's family, their 
associates, and others hindering Libyan national reconciliation. 
Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the 
national emergency with respect to Libya.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, February 9, 2018.

                          ____________________



