

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1090-H1092]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1630
                LOW-DOSE RADIATION RESEARCH ACT OF 2018

  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 4675) to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to provide for 
a low-dose radiation basic research program, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 4675

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Low-Dose Radiation Research 
     Act of 2018''.

     SEC. 2. LOW-DOSE RADIATION RESEARCH PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Subtitle G of title IX of the Energy 
     Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16311 et seq.) is amended by 
     inserting after section 977 the following new section:

     ``SEC. 977A. LOW-DOSE RADIATION RESEARCH PROGRAM.

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out a basic 
     research program on low-dose radiation to--
       ``(1) enhance the scientific understanding of, and reduce 
     uncertainties associated with, the effects of exposure to 
     low-dose radiation; and
       ``(2) inform improved risk-assessment and risk-management 
     methods with respect to such radiation.
       ``(b) Program Components.--In carrying out the program 
     required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
       ``(1) formulate scientific goals for low-dose radiation 
     basic research in the United States;
       ``(2) identify ongoing scientific challenges for 
     understanding the long-term effects of ionizing radiation on 
     biological systems;
       ``(3) develop a long-term strategic and prioritized basic 
     research agenda to address such scientific challenges in 
     coordination with other research efforts;
       ``(4) identify and, to the extent possible, quantify, 
     potential monetary and health-related benefits to Federal 
     agencies, the general public, industry, research communities, 
     and other users of information produced by such research 
     program;
       ``(5) leverage the collective body of knowledge from 
     existing low-dose radiation research; and
       ``(6) engage with other Federal agencies, research 
     communities, and potential users of information produced 
     under this section, including institutions concerning 
     radiation research, medical physics, radiology, health 
     physics, and emergency response.
       ``(c) Coordination.--In carrying out the program, the 
     Secretary, in coordination with the Physical Science 
     Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council, 
     shall--
       ``(1) support the directives under section 106 of the 
     American Innovation and Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 6601 
     note);
       ``(2) ensure that the Office of Science of the Department 
     of Energy consults with the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration, the National Institutes of Health, the 
     Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Defense, 
     the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the Department of 
     Homeland Security;
       ``(3) advise and assist the National Science and Technology 
     Council on policies and initiatives in radiation biology, 
     including enhancing scientific knowledge of the effects of 
     low-dose radiation on biological systems to improve radiation 
     risk-assessment and risk-management methods; and
       ``(4) identify opportunities to stimulate international 
     cooperation relating to low-dose radiation and leverage 
     research and knowledge from sources outside of the United 
     States.
       ``(d) Research Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit 
     to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources of the Senate a 4-year research plan that 
     identifies and prioritizes basic research needs relating to 
     low-dose radiation. In developing such plan, the Secretary 
     shall incorporate the components described in subsection (b).
       ``(e) Definition of Low-Dose Radiation.--In this section, 
     the term `low-dose radiation' means a radiation dose of less 
     than 100 millisieverts.
       ``(f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed to subject any research carried out by the 
     Secretary for the program under this section to any 
     limitations described in 977(e) of the Energy Policy Act of 
     2005 (42 U.S.C. 16317(e)).
       ``(g) Funding.--For purposes of carrying out this section, 
     the Secretary is authorized to make available from funds 
     provided to the Biological and Environmental Research 
     Program--
       ``(1) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2018;
       ``(2) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2019;
       ``(3) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
       ``(4) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents for 
     subtitle G of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 is 
     amended by inserting after the item relating to section 977 
     the following:

``977A. Low-dose radiation research program.''.

     SEC. 3. SPENDING LIMITATION.

       No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to 
     carry out this Act and the amendments made by this Act, and 
     this Act and such amendments shall be carried out using 
     amounts otherwise available for such purpose.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Marshall) and the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Eddie Bernice 
Johnson) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kansas.


                             General Leave

  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to 
include extraneous material on H.R. 4675, the bill now under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Kansas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4675, the Low-Dose Radiation 
Research Act of 2018.
  H.R. 4675 requires the Department of Energy to carry out a research 
program on low-dose radiation within the Office of Science. This 
program will increase our understanding of the health effects that low 
doses of ionizing radiation have on biological systems. Every day, 
humans are exposed to low doses of radiation. It is the product of 
industrial activities, commercial processes, medical procedures, and 
naturally occurring systems.
  Research has consistently shown us the adverse health effects 
associated with high doses of radiation, but the health risks 
associated with exposure to low doses of radiation are much

[[Page H1091]]

more difficult to observe, and we are a long way away from 
understanding and accurately assessing this risk.
  In the absence of conclusive evidence, agencies like the Department 
of Energy, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Environmental 
Protection Agency are obligated to assume that any exposure to 
radiation increases the risk of harmful human effects. Without 
additional research, Federal agencies have no way to measure if there 
is a safe radiation exposure threshold.
  Our restricted understanding of low-dose radiation health risks 
directly impairs our ability to address potential radiological events 
and medically-based radiation exposures. It may also result in overly 
stringent regulatory standards, inhibiting the development of nuclear 
energy opportunities and posing an undue economic burden on the 
American people.
  As a physician in my home State of Kansas, I have a firsthand 
understanding of the crucial importance of verified research to ensure 
the best medical outcomes for my patients. For instance, an adult 
patient who receives a computed tomography, or a CT scan, of the 
abdomen and pelvis is exposed to approximately 3 years' worth of 
natural background radiation at once.
  The CT scan is an invaluable diagnostic tool, replacing many invasive 
surgical procedures, and is a medical necessity for countless 
Americans. Today, we physicians are unable to inform our patients of 
the specific risks associated with these types of vital imaging 
processes.
  There is a broad consensus among the radiobiology community that more 
research is necessary for Federal agencies, physicians, and related 
experts to make better informed decisions regarding these risks. It is 
no surprise that H.R. 4675 has received support from the Health Physics 
Society, the American Association of Physicists in Medicine, the 
National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements, the 
Radiation Research Society, the American Society for Radiation 
Oncology, and leading researchers from Northwestern University and 
Columbia University.
  I would especially like to thank Chairman Lamar Smith, Representative 
Dan Lipinski, and Energy Subcommittee Chairman Randy Weber for 
cosponsoring this important legislation.
  I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such 
time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4675, the Low-Dose Radiation 
Research Act of 2018.
  The Department of Energy funds cutting-edge research across a variety 
of disciplines. For many years, DOE stewarded research into low-dose 
radiation exposure. This included studies into the effects of radiation 
exposure in higher risk populations and the examination of the changes 
that a cell undergoes when exposed to low-dose radiation. These 
research investments resulted in notable advancements in this field and 
significantly expanded our understanding of radiation exposure.
  Over the past several years, this research program was ramped up and 
eventually eliminated--or ramped down. However, there is much more that 
should be explored, and the Department of Energy is best positioned to 
lead this effort in coordination with other Federal agencies that have 
a stake in this work.
  Expanding our understanding of low-dose radiation could improve how 
we utilize medical diagnostic tools or change how we regulate nuclear 
power plants. Radiation is all around us every day. When we fly on a 
plane or walk into a building made of limestone, much like the one we 
are in now, we experience a small increase in our radiation exposure, 
but we still don't have an answer to the fundamental question of what 
that means for our health.
  Are there healthy levels of radiation exposure or are they all 
directly tied to an increased risk of cancer?
  What is an acceptable level for long-term human health?
  The answers to these fundamental questions can only be found by 
properly investing in the research field. I am hopeful that 
reconstituting this program at DOE will lead to more scientific 
advancements and will expand humankind's understanding of radiation 
exposure. DOE is the right place to do this work, and the benefits 
should be numerous and invaluable.
  I want to thank Mr. Marshall for introducing this bill, and I 
strongly support this bill and encourage my colleagues to do the same.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Smith), my friend and mentor, the chairman of the Science, 
Space, and Technology Committee.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I would like to thank 
the gentleman from Kansas, Dr. Roger Marshall, the vice chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Research and Technology, for yielding me time on his 
bill, H.R. 4675, the Low-Dose Radiation Research Act of 2018.
  H.R. 4675, cosponsored by Representative Dan Lipinski, Energy 
Subcommittee Chairman Randy Weber, and Dr. Neal Dunn, authorizes a 
revitalized low-dose radiation research program within the Biological 
and Environmental Research program of the Department of Energy. This 
basic research is part of the Science, Space, and Technology 
Committee's continued effort to ensure America remains a leader in 
foundational science and innovation.
  The DOE low-dose radiation basic research program will analyze and 
seek to determine any health impacts of low levels of radiation, 
providing critical knowledge to our Nation's researchers, industry, 
healthcare community, and military as they handle nuclear material, 
maintain the Nation's nuclear weapons program, provide medical 
treatment, and dispose of nuclear waste.
  Low-dose radiation research can benefit regulatory agencies that set 
nuclear safety standards for the public. This will enable Federal 
emergency response agencies to more accurately set areas of evacuation 
for radiological incidents.
  The research is also of particular importance to physicians, who rely 
on a thorough knowledge of radiation health risks to determine when and 
how to use lifesaving diagnostics to detect and deter and treat cancer 
in patients.
  I thank Vice Chairman Marshall for his initiative in developing and 
managing this important legislation, and I urge my colleagues to 
support this bipartisan bill.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I continue to 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Weber), the chairman of the Energy Subcommittee.
  Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate Congressman Marshall's 
bill coming up today.
  I rise, Mr. Speaker, in support of H.R. 4675, the Low-Dose Radiation 
Research Act of 2018. This legislation authorizes a research program on 
the health effects of low-dose radiation within the Department of 
Energy's Office of Science.
  Currently, key functions of the United States nuclear and medical 
industries are guided by assumption-based radiation dose limits and 
protections. In order to best serve our Nation's energy, medical, and 
defense needs, we need foundational research in radiology and biology 
to directly define the impact of low doses of radiation. The United 
States should not rely on a ``best approximation'' when it comes to our 
nuclear regulatory policies.
  Mr. Speaker, today we have an opportunity to ensure that we as a 
nation are doing everything we can to make certain that the 
regulations, the guidelines, and the protections that we put in place 
are grounded in sound science.
  Again, I want to thank Congressman Marshall for introducing this 
important legislation.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage 
of the bill. I have no further requests for time, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  H.R. 4675 authorizes a critical research program in radiation biology 
and will help ensure that we are basing our industrial, commercial, and 
medical regulations on the best available science.

[[Page H1092]]

  I want to once again thank my colleagues on the Science, Space, and 
Technology Committee who have cosponsored H.R. 4675, including Chairman 
Lamar Smith, Representative Dan Lipinski, and Energy Subcommittee 
Chairman Randy Weber. I also want to thank the numerous researchers and 
stakeholders who provided feedback as we developed this legislation.
  I encourage my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation, and 
I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Marshall) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 4675, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



