

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1133]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING DR. ROSEMARY JACKSON

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Rush) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute and honor the 
memory of Dr. Rosemary Jackson.
  Dr. Jackson was an educator in Chicago. Dr. Jackson was an 
entrepreneur. Dr. Jackson was an exceptional community leader who 
passed away last week and leaves behind a stellar legacy that will 
endure throughout the years.
  Dr. Jackson was a lifelong Chicago resident who had a passion for 
education, a passion that began when she was a young girl. She received 
her Ph.D. from Loyola University and her master's degree from both 
National College of Education and DePaul University.
  Beginning her career as an English teacher at her alma mater, John 
Marshall High School--my alma mater--she went on to teach at local 
institutions such as Hyde Park High School on the South Side in my 
district, Kennedy-King College in my district, and her beloved DePaul 
University.
  In all of these places, Mr. Speaker, Dr. Jackson deeply touched 
countless lives and inspired so many young people. Dr. Jackson, Mr. 
Speaker, was a pillar of the community and a person deeply committed to 
public service. She was also a member of the Delta Sigma Theta 
Sorority, for which she chaired several committees during her 50-year 
tenure as an active member.
  Beyond her love for education and her love for community service, Dr. 
Jackson was a beloved wife and mother.
  She was the vice chairman and the chief administrative officer at 
Chicago-based Central City Productions, the business that she helped 
develop with her lifelong partner, her devoted husband, my longtime 
friend, Mr. Donald Jackson. Central City Productions, Mr. Speaker, is 
best known for producing the Stellar Awards, the first and the oldest 
televised awards show in our Nation that honored gospel music artists 
for over 33 years.
  Dr. Jackson achieved so much in her life through hard work and 
determination. She never gave up, always fought for what was right, and 
made it her life's mission to help students in Chicago explore their 
potential and their educational possibility.
  Dr. Jackson was a truly remarkable, smart, and phenomenal woman who 
enjoyed the arts, sports, and loved line dancing. She had a smile that 
would light up a room.
  Dr. Jackson will be missed by her family, her friends, our city, our 
State and, indeed, our Nation and all those who fondly remember her 
beautiful and loving spirit.
  I was blessed to know her, and Chicago was better because of her. My 
heart goes out to her entire family.
  The last time I saw Dr. Jackson was last year. My late wife, Carolyn, 
and I were going into one of our favorite restaurants in the Hyde Park 
community and Rose and Don Jackson, her husband, were leaving, and we 
stopped for a moment and had a conversation.
  Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the people of the First Congressional 
District of Illinois, thank you, Rose. Thank you. God bless you. Enjoy 
your rest. You have earned it.

                          ____________________



