

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S843]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, February 8, 2018, at 10:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Paul C. Ney, Jr., of 
Tennessee, to be General Counsel, Kevin Fahey, of Massachusetts, to be 
an Assistant Secretary, and Thomas E. Ayres, of Pennsylvania, to be 
General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force, all of the 
Department of Defense, and Lisa Gordon-Hagerty, of Virginia, to be 
Under Secretary for Nuclear Security, Department of Energy.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, February 8, 2018, at 
11 a.m., to conduct a hearing on subcommittee assignments and the 
following nominations: Jelena McWilliams, of Ohio, to be Chairperson of 
the Board of Directors, and to be a Member of the Board of Directors, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Marvin Goodfriend, of 
Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, and Thomas E. Workman, of New York, to be a Member of 
the Financial Stability Oversight Council.''


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, February 8, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, February 8, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Opioid Crisis: Impact on 
Children and Families.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, February 8, at 10:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Kurt D. Engelhardt, of 
Louisiana, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, 
Michael B. Brennan, of Wisconsin, to be United States Circuit Judge for 
the Seventh Circuit, Barry W. Ashe, to be United States District Judge 
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, Howard C. Nielson, Jr., to be 
United States District Judge for the District of Utah, James R. Sweeney 
II, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of 
Indiana, Susan Paradise Baxter, to be United States District Judge for 
the Western District of Pennsylvania, Daniel Desmond Domenico, to be 
United States District Judge for the District of Colorado, Marilyn Jean 
Horan, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of 
Pennsylvania, Adam I. Klein, of the District of Columbia, to be 
Chairman and Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, 
and John C. Anderson, to be United States Attorney for the District of 
New Mexico, Brandon J. Fremin, to be United States Attorney for the 
Middle District of Louisiana, Joseph P. Kelly, to be United States 
Attorney for the District of Nebraska, Scott W. Murray, to be United 
States Attorney for the District of New Hampshire, David C. Weiss, to 
be United States Attorney for the District of Delaware, David G. 
Jolley, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of 
Tennessee, and Thomas M. Griffin, Jr., to be United States Marshal for 
the District of South Carolina, all of the Department of Justice.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, February 8, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to 
conduct a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



