

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S907-S908]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 503

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 503, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Agriculture to make publicly available certain regulatory 
records relating to the administration of the Animal Welfare Act and 
the Horse Protection Act, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
provide for the use of an alternative depreciation system for taxpayers 
violating rules under the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse Protection 
Act, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 523

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 523, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish a stewardship fee on the 
production and importation of opioid pain relievers, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 538

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 538, a bill to 
clarify research and development for wood products, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable authority 
for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation Fund to 
maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 851

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 851, a bill to 
end offshore corporate tax avoidance, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 943

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 943, a bill 
to direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct an accurate 
comprehensive student count for the purposes of calculating formula 
allocations for programs under the Johnson-O'Malley Act, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the

[[Page S908]]

Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were added as cosponsors of S. 1050, 
a bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the 
Chinese-American Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their 
dedicated service during World War II.


                                S. 1537

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1537, a bill to 
amend the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act to reauthorize 
the Act.


                                S. 1692

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1692, a bill to authorize 
the National Emergency Medical Services Memorial Foundation to 
establish a commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its 
environs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1895

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1895, a bill 
to reauthorize the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1980

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1980, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide credits for the production of 
renewable chemicals and investments in renewable chemical production 
facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1989, a bill to 
enhance transparency and accountability for online political 
advertisements by requiring those who purchase and publish such ads to 
disclose information about the advertisements to the public, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2101

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2101, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the crew of the USS 
Indianapolis, in recognition of their perseverance, bravery, and 
service to the United States.


                                S. 2278

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, a bill 
to amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to improve 
health care in rural areas.


                                S. 2341

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2341, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the processing of 
veterans benefits by the Department of Veterans Affairs, to limit the 
authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to recover overpayments 
made by the Department and other amounts owed by veterans to the United 
States, to improve the due process accorded veterans with respect to 
such recovery, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2343

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2343, a bill to require 
the Federal Communications Commission to establish a task force for 
meeting the connectivity and technology needs of precision agriculture 
in the United States.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets under 
direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and other 
figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2354

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2354, a bill to provide 
for the administration of certain national monuments, to establish a 
National Monument Enhancement Fund, and to establish certain wilderness 
areas in the States of New Mexico and Nevada.


                                S. 2381

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2381, a bill to 
amend title 23, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
Transportation to require that broadband conduits be installed as a 
part of certain highway construction projects, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2398

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2398, a bill to 
amend title 31, United States Code, to provide that activities relating 
to the training and readiness of the reserve components of the Armed 
Forces during a lapse in appropriations shall constitute voluntary 
services that may be accepted by the United States.


                                S. 2406

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2406, a bill to advance 
cutting-edge research initiatives of the National Institutes of Health.


                                S. 2413

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2413, a bill to 
provide for the appropriate use of bridge contracts in Federal 
procurement, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 401

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 401, a resolution designating May 5, 
2018 as the ``National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Native 
Women and Girls''.

                          ____________________



