

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S840]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mrs. Ernst):
       S. 2402. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to increase the number of peer-to-peer counselors providing 
     counseling for women veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Burr):
       S. 2403. A bill to modify a provision relating to 
     adjustments of certain State apportionments for Federal 
     highway programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 2404. A bill to amend the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 to reauthorize the 
     organic agriculture research and extension initiative; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       S. 2405. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
     to clarify capital requirements for certain acquisition, 
     development, or construction loans; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Young, 
             and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 2406. A bill to advance cutting-edge research 
     initiatives of the National Institutes of Health; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. HASSAN (for herself, Mr. Kaine, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             and Mr. Reed):
       S. 2407. A bill to establish a career pathway grant 
     program; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 2408. A bill to prohibit the use of funds for an 
     exhibition or parade of military forces and hardware for 
     review by the President outside of authorized military 
     operations or activities; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms. Cortez Masto, and Ms. 
             Smith):
       S. 2409. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 to 
     improve nutrition in tribal areas, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Carper):
       S. 2410. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permit high deductible health plans to provide chronic 
     disease prevention services to plan enrollees prior to 
     satisfying their plan deductible; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH:
       S. 2411. A bill for the relief of Miguel Angel Perez-
     Montes, Jr.; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Cruz, Mr. 
             Cardin, and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 2412. A bill to support the successful implementation of 
     the 1991 Paris Peace Agreement in Cambodia, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL:
       S. 2413. A bill to provide for the appropriate use of 
     bridge contracts in Federal procurement, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 2414. A bill to transfer administrative jurisdiction 
     over certain Bureau of Land Management land from the 
     Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs for use as a national cemetery, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



