

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S878]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 SENATE RESOLUTION 403--DESIGNATING FEBRUARY 2018 AS ``AMERICAN HEART 
       MONTH'' AND FEBRUARY 2, 2018, AS ``NATIONAL WEAR RED DAY''

  Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. Murkowski, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Heitkamp, 
Ms. Cantwell, Ms. Stabenow, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Hoeven, Mrs. Capito, Ms. 
Baldwin, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Smith, 
Ms. Klobuchar, and Ms. Duckworth) submitted the following resolution; 
which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 403

       Whereas cardiovascular disease affects men, women, and 
     children of every age and race in the United States;
       Whereas, between 2003 and 2013, the death rate from 
     cardiovascular disease fell nearly 30 percent, but 
     cardiovascular disease continues to be the leading cause of 
     death in the United States, taking the lives of approximately 
     800,000 individuals in the United States each year and 
     accounting for 1 in 3 deaths across the United States;
       Whereas congenital heart defects are the most common birth 
     defect in the United States, as well as the leading killer of 
     infants with birth defects;
       Whereas, each year, an estimated 790,000 individuals in the 
     United States have a heart attack, of whom an estimated 
     115,000 die;
       Whereas cardiovascular disease accounts for 
     $555,000,000,000 in health care expenditures and lost 
     productivity annually;
       Whereas, by 2035, cardiovascular disease will account for 
     $1,093,900,000,000 in health care expenditures and lost 
     productivity annually;
       Whereas individuals in the United States have made great 
     progress in reducing the death rate for cardiovascular 
     disease, but this progress has been more modest with respect 
     to the death rate for cardiovascular disease in women and 
     minorities;
       Whereas many people do not recognize that cardiovascular 
     disease is the leading killer of women in the United States, 
     taking the lives of 400,000 women in 2014;
       Whereas nearly \2/3\ of women who unexpectedly die of 
     cardiovascular disease have no previous symptoms of the 
     disease;
       Whereas nearly \1/2\ of all African-American adults have 
     some form of cardiovascular disease, including 47.7 percent 
     of African-American women and 46 percent of African-American 
     men;
       Whereas Alaska Natives die from cardiovascular disease at 
     younger ages than individuals from other ethnic groups;
       Whereas it is estimated that 36 percent of Alaska Natives 
     and American Indians who die of cardiovascular disease die 
     before reaching 65 years of age;
       Whereas many minority women, including African-American, 
     Hispanic, Asian-American, and Native American women and women 
     from indigenous populations, have a greater prevalence of 
     risk factors or are at a higher risk of death from heart 
     disease, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases, but are 
     less likely to know of the risk;
       Whereas, between 1965 and 2017, treatment of cardiovascular 
     disease for women was largely based on medical research on 
     men;
       Whereas, due to the differences in cardiovascular disease 
     between men and women, more research and data on the effects 
     of cardiovascular disease treatments for women is vital;
       Whereas extensive clinical and statistical studies have 
     identified major and contributing factors that increase the 
     risk of cardiovascular disease, including--
       (1) high blood pressure;
       (2) high blood cholesterol;
       (3) smoking tobacco products;
       (4) exposure to tobacco smoke;
       (5) physical inactivity;
       (6) obesity; and
       (7) diabetes mellitus;
       Whereas an individual can greatly reduce the risk of 
     cardiovascular disease through lifestyle modification coupled 
     with medical treatment when necessary;
       Whereas greater awareness and early detection of risk 
     factors for cardiovascular disease can improve and save the 
     lives of thousands of individuals in the United States each 
     year;
       Whereas, under section 101(1) of title 36, United States 
     Code, the President is requested to issue an annual 
     proclamation designating February as American Heart Month;
       Whereas the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute of 
     the National Institutes of Health, the American Heart 
     Association, and many other organizations celebrate National 
     Wear Red Day during February by ``going red'' to increase 
     awareness about cardiovascular disease as the leading killer 
     of women; and
       Whereas, every year since 1964, the President has issued a 
     proclamation designating the month of February as American 
     Heart Month: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates--
       (A) February 2018 as ``American Heart Month''; and
       (B) February 2, 2018, as ``National Wear Red Day'';
       (2) supports the goals and ideals of American Heart Month 
     and National Wear Red Day;
       (3) recognizes and reaffirms the commitment in the United 
     States to fighting cardiovascular disease by--
       (A) promoting awareness about the causes, risks, and 
     prevention of cardiovascular disease;
       (B) supporting research on cardiovascular disease; and
       (C) expanding access to medical treatment;
       (4) commends the efforts of States, territories, and 
     possessions of the United States, localities, nonprofit 
     organizations, businesses and other entities, and the people 
     of the United States who support American Heart Month and 
     National Wear Red Day; and
       (5) encourages every individual in the United States to 
     learn about his or her risk for cardiovascular disease.

                          ____________________



