

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S840-S841]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and 
accelerate development and availability, of promising childhood cancer 
treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of certain lymphedema 
compression treatment items as items of durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 732

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 732, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a refundable tax credit against 
income tax for the purchase of qualified access technology for the 
blind.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) and the 
Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as cosponsors of S. 751, a 
bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to establish, fund, and 
provide for the use of amounts in a National Park Service Legacy 
Restoration Fund to address the maintenance backlog of the National 
Park Service, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for certain 
rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center services 
furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.

[[Page S841]]

  



                                S. 1152

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1152, a bill 
to create protections for depository institutions that provide 
financial services to cannabis-related businesses, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1690

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1690, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide greater support to 
students with dependents, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home 
infusion therapy services temporary transitional payment under the 
Medicare program.


                                S. 1806

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1806, a bill to amend the 
Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 and the Head Start 
Act to promote child care and early learning, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill 
to provide for wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1989, a bill to enhance transparency and 
accountability for online political advertisements by requiring those 
who purchase and publish such ads to disclose information about the 
advertisements to the public, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2029

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2029, a bill to 
establish a National and Community Service Administration to carry out 
the national and volunteer service programs, to expand participation in 
such programs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2086

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2086, a bill to amend the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 to extend and 
modernize the sugar program, to extend and subsequently repeal the 
feedstock flexibility program for bioenergy producers, to extend and 
subsequently replace flexible marketing allotments for sugar, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2098

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2098, a bill to modernize 
and strengthen the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States 
to more effectively guard against the risk to the national security of 
the United States posed by certain types of foreign investment, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2127

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2127, a bill to award a Congressional Gold 
Medal, collectively, to the United States merchant mariners of World 
War II, in recognition of their dedicated and vital service during 
World War II.


                                S. 2324

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2324, a bill 
to amend the Investment Company Act of 1940 to change certain 
requirements relating to the capital structure of business development 
companies, to direct the Securities and Exchange Commission to revise 
certain rules relating to business development companies, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2339

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2339, a bill to amend title 31, 
United States Code, to provide for automatic continuing resolutions.


                                S. 2345

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) and the 
Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were added as cosponsors of S. 2345, 
a bill to amend the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 to 
provide additional resources to State and local prosecutors, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets 
under direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and 
other figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2360

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2360, a 
bill to provide for the minimum size of crews of freight trains, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2364

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2364, a bill to amend the Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 to provide to State 
infrastructure financing authorities additional opportunities to 
receive loans under that Act to support drinking water and clean water 
State revolving funds to deliver water infrastructure to communities 
across the United States, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 396

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 396, a resolution to 
establish a special committee of the Senate to address sexual abuse 
within United States Olympic Gymnastics.


                              S. RES. 397

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 397, a resolution 
designating the week of February 5 through February 9, 2018, as 
``National School Counseling Week'' .

                          ____________________



