

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S652-S653]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 351

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 351, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide for comprehensive student 
achievement information.


                                 S. 545

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 545, a bill to preserve and protect the free choice 
of individual employees to form, join, or assist labor organizations, 
or to refrain from such activities.


                                 S. 698

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 698, a bill to establish a 
national program to identify and reduce losses from landslide hazards, 
to establish a national 3D Elevation Program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 732

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 732, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a refundable tax credit against 
income tax for the purchase of qualified access technology for the 
blind.


                                 S. 813

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 813, a bill to amend 
the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, to make it unlawful for a packer 
to own, feed, or control livestock intended for slaughter.


                                 S. 951

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 951, a bill to 
reform the process by which Federal agencies analyze and formulate new 
regulations and guidance documents, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 974

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 974, a bill to promote 
competition in the market for drugs and biological products by 
facilitating the timely entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar 
versions of those drugs and biological products.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable tax 
provisions.


                                S. 1353

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1353, a bill 
to require States to automatically register eligible voters to vote in 
elections for Federal offices, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1746

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1746, a bill to require the 
Congressional Budget Office to make publicly available the fiscal and 
mathematical models, data, and other details of computations used in 
cost analysis and scoring.


                                S. 1899

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1899, a bill to reauthorize and extend funding for 
community health centers and the National Health Service Corps.


                                S. 1917

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1917, a bill to reform sentencing laws and 
correctional institutions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2076, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act 
to authorize the expansion of activities related to Alzheimer's 
disease, cognitive decline, and brain health under the Alzheimer's 
Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2101

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2101, a bill to award a Congressional Gold 
Medal, collectively, to the crew of the USS Indianapolis, in 
recognition of their perseverance, bravery, and service to the United 
States.


                                S. 2138

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2138, a bill to authorize the creation of a commission 
to develop voluntary accessibility guidelines for electronic 
instructional materials and related technologies used in postsecondary 
education, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2156

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2156, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide fairness in hospital 
payments under the Medicare program.


                                S. 2173

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2173, a bill to amend 
subpart 2 of part B of title IV of the Social Security Act to extend 
State court funding for child welfare, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2194

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2194, a bill to 
remove a limitation on a prohibition relating to permits for discharges 
incidental to normal operation of vessels.


                                S. 2235

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2235, a bill to establish a 
tiered hiring preference for members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces.


                                S. 2244

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the 
Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 2244, a bill to create opportunities for women in the aviation 
industry.


                                S. 2296

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2296, a bill to increase 
access to agency guidance documents.


                                S. 2304

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2304, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to protect veterans from predatory 
lending, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2310

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2310, a bill to require 
the United States Trade Representative to permit the public to submit 
comments on trade agreement negotiations through the Internet.


                                S. 2324

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2324, a bill to amend the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 to change certain requirements relating 
to the capital structure of business development companies, to direct 
the Securities and Exchange Commission to revise certain rules relating 
to business development companies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2340

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2340, a bill to 
establish

[[Page S653]]

the Federal Labor-Management Partnership Council.


                                S. 2345

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2345, a bill to amend the DNA Analysis 
Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 to provide additional resources to 
State and local prosecutors, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2372

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2372, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide outer burial receptacles for remains 
buried in National Parks, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a 
resolution supporting respect for human rights and encouraging 
inclusive governance in Ethiopia.


                              S. RES. 361

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 361, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States Government 
shall, both unilaterally and alongside the international community, 
consider all options for exerting maximum pressure on the Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), in order to denuclearize the DPRK, 
protect the lives of United States citizens and allies, and prevent 
further proliferation of nuclear weapons.

                          ____________________



