

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8601-H8602]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      RECOGNIZING THE MEN AND WOMEN OF THE NEBRASKA NATIONAL GUARD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Nebraska (Mr. Bacon) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the men and women of the 
Nebraska National Guard. Whether it is a natural disaster in Nebraska 
or elsewhere in the United States, or doing combat operations in the 
Middle East, the Nebraska National Guard is willing and ready to assist 
those in need and are poised to fight our Nation's wars.
  The Army National Guard has approximately 3,500 soldiers stationed 
throughout Nebraska, and the Air National Guard has approximately 950 
airmen. Joining us today in Washington are 60 of those soldiers and 
airmen.
  The Nebraska National Guard is made up of selfless and courageous men 
and women who continue to make Nebraska and the Nation proud through 
their rescue and assist efforts and during times of crisis.
  The Army National Guard has over 80 units throughout Nebraska. These 
guardsmen are also called citizen soldiers and they respond to national 
disasters in the State and around the Nation.
  There are two Air National Guard units in Nebraska: the 155th Air 
Refueling Wing in Lincoln and the 170th Group located at Offutt Air 
Force Base. The 155th Wing is responsible for refueling aircraft 
worldwide, while the

[[Page H8602]]

170th Group provides support to the 55th Wing by training airmen 
conducting worldwide missions for our Nation.
  In addition, they have become a premier example of total force 
integration between the Active Duty Air Force and the Air National 
Guard. In my 30 years in the Air Force, this is the best Active Duty 
and National Guard relationship that I have seen. I think it is the 
best in the Nation.
  Since September 11, the Nebraska National Guard has deployed over 
10,000 soldiers and airmen. The guardsmen not only provide assistance 
to the United States, but throughout the world. There are dozens of 
Nebraska soldiers deployed to Guantanamo Bay supporting detainee 
operations. Next year, the Nebraska Air National Guard will deploy to 
key locations in the Pacific and Middle East.
  Most recently, members of the Nebraska National Guard deployed to 
Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands to assist with 
the hurricane relief efforts.
  The Nebraska National Guard rescued 461 people and 22 pets, and they 
served 6,000 pounds of bottled water, 3,000 pounds of food, and 1,000 
pounds of medical supplies to the people of Texas.
  In response to Hurricane Irma, 102 Guard members were in Florida 
providing an aviation task force for support operations. Currently, 
there are 58 soldiers and airmen providing support to the Virgin 
Islands and Puerto Rico. These efforts range from rescuing people to 
cleaning up St. Croix's Ricardo Richards Elementary School.
  The Nebraska National Guard's value to Nebraskans and Americans 
across the Nation cannot be understated. Our soldiers and airmen risk 
their lives to save our neighbors in need.
  I thank the Nebraska National Guard for their service to the Nation 
and Nebraska. All Nebraskans are proud of their service.

                          ____________________



