

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 197 (Monday, December 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 197 (Monday, December 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9619-H9620]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. PALLONE:
       H.R. 4530. A bill to provide that a person or governmental 
     entity is not subject to civil or criminal liability under 
     Federal law for gaming activity that is lawful under State 
     law, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas:
       H.R. 4531. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat rents received by a real estate investment 
     trust from a parking facility leased to a taxable REIT 
     subsidiary in the same manner as rents from lodging and 
     health care facilities leased to such a subsidiary; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CURTIS (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. 
             Stewart, and Mrs. Love):
       H.R. 4532. A bill to create the first Tribally managed 
     national monument, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Massie, and Mr. Comer):
       H.R. 4533. A bill to designate the health care system of 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs in Lexington, Kentucky, as 
     the ``Lexington VA Health Care System'' and to make certain 
     other designations; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK:
       H.R. 4534. A bill to amend the interstate Compact governing 
     the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Ms. Slaughter, and Mr. 
             Gutierrez):
       H.R. 4535. A bill to establish limitations on the quantity 
     of inorganic arsenic in rice and rice products under chapter 
     IV of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. DONOVAN:
       H.R. 4536. A bill to establish an Anti-Bullying Roundtable 
     to study bullying in elementary and secondary schools in the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself, Mr. Heck, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Ross, Mr. Budd, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Rothfus, and Ms. 
             Tenney):
       H.R. 4537. A bill to preserve the State-based system of 
     insurance regulation and provide greater oversight of and 
     transparency on international insurance standards setting 
     processes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Jayapal, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 4538. A bill to require the Attorney General and the 
     Federal Trade Commission to conduct regular merger 
     retrospective reviews of the economic effects of mergers to 
     which section 7A of the Clayton Act applies; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KEATING (for himself and Mr. Foster):
       H.R. 4539. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint coins in commemoration of the 400th anniversary of 
     the landing of the Mayflower and settlement of Plymouth 
     Colony, the signing of the Mayflower Compact near 
     Provincetown, and the role of the indigenous Wampanoag Tribes 
     in the realization of the settlement; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. MARINO:
       H.R. 4540. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to require Members of Congress to reimburse the 
     Treasury for amounts paid as awards and settlements under the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 in connection with 
     violations of such Act which were committed personally by the 
     Members, to prohibit the imposition of nondisclosure 
     agreements as a condition of the payment of an award or 
     settlement in connection with a violation of such Act, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Mr. Neal, and 
             Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 4541. A bill to extend funding for certain public 
     health programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Miss RICE of New York (for herself and Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi):
       H.R. 4542. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish a distracted driving education grant program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SIRES:
       H.R. 4543. A bill to establish a regulatory framework for 
     the comprehensive protection of personal data for individuals 
     under the aegis of the Federal Trade Commission, to amend the 
     Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 to improve 
     provisions relating to collection, use, and disclosure of 
     personal information of children, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SIRES:
       H.R. 4544. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     provide protections for consumers after a data breach at a 
     consumer reporting agency, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. TIPTON (for himself and Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney 
             of New York):
       H.R. 4545. A bill to amend the Federal Financial 
     Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 to improve the 
     examination of depository institutions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H.J. Res. 123. A joint resolution making further continuing 
     appropriations for fiscal year 2018, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Appropriations.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Takano, 
             Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Deutch, Mrs. Beatty, 
             Mr. Payne, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Cohen, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, and Mr. Cicilline):
       H. Con. Res. 96. Concurrent resolution supporting the goals 
     and ideals of World AIDS Day; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr. Yoho):
       H. Res. 643. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to observe a moment of silence in the 
     House on the first legislative day of each month for those 
     killed or wounded in the United States engagement in 
     Afghanistan; to the Committee on Rules.

[[Page H9620]]

  

           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. Engel, Mr. Poe of Texas, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Payne, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Clyburn, Ms. Norton, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Clay, Mr. Cleaver, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Fudge, 
             Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Ms. Plaskett, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Espaillat, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mrs. Love, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Doggett, Mr. 
             Rush, Mr. Pallone, and Ms. Adams):
       H. Res. 644. A resolution strongly condemning the slave 
     auctions of migrants and refugees in Libya, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



