

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5477-S5478]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   RECOGNIZING THE GUADALUPE CENTERS

 Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, I ask the Senate to join me 
today in recognizing the work of the Guadalupe Centers in Kansas City, 
MO. Their mission is to improve the quality of life for individuals in 
the Latino communities of greater Kansas City, and they excel at their 
mission. Many Kansas City families view Guadalupe Centers as a pillar 
in their lives. I am here today to honor the Guadalupe Centers as the 
standard all community organizations should strive to become.
  Founded in 1919, the Guadalupe Centers originally served as a safe 
haven for Mexican immigrants who experienced discrimination, poverty, 
and lack of social services following the Mexican revolution. During 
the subsequent decades, the centers expanded its services to include 
English classes, boys' and girls' clubs, adult education classes, and 
home economics. Much of this expansion came under the leadership of 
Dorothy Gallagher, known as the Godmother of Guadalupe.
  While the Guadalupe Centers continue to assist members of the Latino 
community balance life in the United States while maintaining their 
cultural heritage to this day, it has also expanded significantly. As 
Kansas City's Latino population grew and prospered, the centers added 
employment assistance programs, a credit union, a health center, 
counseling, youth programs, a preschool program, and the Alta Vista 
Charter High School. In 2013, the Missouri Public Charter School 
Association recognized Alta Vista High School as the ``Missouri Charter 
of the Year.''
  To kick off Hispanic Heritage Month each year, the Guadalupe Centers 
host the Blanco y Negro Awards gala in Kansas City. While honoring 
individuals and institutions critical to the growth and development of 
the organization, the gala also assists with funding the nonprofit. 
Last year alone, the Guadalupe Centers served over 9,268 individuals 
and families through its variety of programs and services. It will be 
my honor to attend the Blanco y Negro Awards gala on September 15 to 
support the Guadalupe Centers and honor the beginning of Hispanic 
Heritage Month.
  Since 1988, we have celebrated Hispanic Heritage Month from September 
15 to October 15. Each year, we take these 30 days to commemorate the 
significant contributions of Hispanic and

[[Page S5478]]

Latino Americans to our country. Our 58 million Latino colleagues, 
neighbors, and friends teach our children, enhance our economy, and 
honorably serve in our military. Hispanic Americans have embodied our 
entrepreneurial spirit and influenced our communities since America's 
inception.
  America's annual tribute to Hispanic heritage reminds us of the 
extraordinary impact those in the Latino community have made to our 
Nation. Without vital organizations like the Guadalupe Centers 
fostering communal development, the American Dream might be out of 
reach for many.
  I ask that the Senate join me in commending the Guadalupe Centers on 
their 98 years of providing education, youth development, and health 
and social services to the greater Kansas City Latino community, along 
with celebrating the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month.

                          ____________________



