

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8694-H8697]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following

[[Page H8695]]

titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BRADY of Texas (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. 
             Reichert, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Roskam, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, 
             Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Reed, Mr. Renacci, Mrs. Noem, Mr. 
             Holding, Mr. Rice of South Carolina, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Blum, Mr. 
             Walker, and Mrs. Walorski):
       H.R. 4318. A bill to amend the Harmonized Tariff Schedule 
     of the United States to modify temporarily certain rates of 
     duty; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 4319. A bill to amend the FAST Act to improve 
     contracting opportunities for veteran-owned small business 
     concerns, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Small Business, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Meeks, 
             Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Smith of New 
             Jersey, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Soto, Mr. Evans, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Mr. Jones, Mr. Sires, Mr. Pearce, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Engel, and Mr. McEachin):
       H.R. 4320. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     establish a presumption of service connection for certain 
     veterans with tinnitus or hearing loss, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Meeks, 
             Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Smith of New 
             Jersey, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Soto, Mr. Evans, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Mr. Jones, Mr. Sires, Mr. Pearce, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Engel, and Mr. McEachin):
       H.R. 4321. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     establish a presumption of service-connection of disabilities 
     relating to blast exposures with respect to disability 
     compensation payments by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself and Mr. Smucker):
       H.R. 4322. A bill to exclude from consideration as income 
     under the housing assistance programs of the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development amounts received by a family 
     from the Department of Veterans Affairs for service-related 
     disabilities of a member of the family, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. DUNN (for himself, Mr. Takano, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Babin, Mr. Knight, Mr. 
             Marshall, and Mr. Banks of Indiana):
       H.R. 4323. A bill to promote veteran involvement in STEM 
     education, computer science, and scientific research, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS:
       H.R. 4324. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to make certifications with respect to United States and 
     foreign financial institutions' aircraft-related transactions 
     involving Iran, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for himself and Mrs. 
             Dingell):
       H.R. 4325. A bill to limit the fees charged by the National 
     Archives and Records Administration to veterans for military 
     service records, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LaHOOD (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Rush, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Roskam, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Foster, Mr. Bost, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Kinzinger, and Mrs. 
             Bustos):
       H.R. 4326. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1211 Towanda Avenue in 
     Bloomington, Illinois, as the ``Sgt. Josh Rodgers Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida (for himself, Mr. 
             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Rokita, Mr. 
             Garrett, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Norman, Mr. Perry, Mr. Rogers 
             of Alabama, Mr. Budd, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Ferguson, and Mr. 
             Meadows):
       H.R. 4327. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to provide that a question of representation affecting 
     commerce shall exist when a petitioner establishes that fewer 
     than 50 percent of the current bargaining unit members had 
     the opportunity to vote in a certification election covering 
     their bargaining unit or no certification election was 
     conducted, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. GABBARD (for herself, Mr. Cleaver, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Ms. Jayapal, and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 4328. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to make grants for the rehabilitation of World War I 
     memorials; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WALDEN:
       H.R. 4329. A bill to amend the Klamath Basin Water Supply 
     Enhancement Act of 2000 to improve infrastructure, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Clay, and Mr. Thompson of Mississippi):
       H.R. 4330. A bill to provide that any State or local law 
     enforcement agency that has in effect a cooling-off period is 
     ineligible to receive Federal funds pursuant to a Department 
     of Justice law enforcement grant program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Clay, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Cummings, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Grijalva, and Mr. 
             Conyers):
       H.R. 4331. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide a penalty for assault or homicide committed by 
     certain State or local law enforcement officers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Clay, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Conyers, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 4332. A bill to provide that in the case of a law 
     enforcement officer who uses deadly force against a person, 
     and thereby causes the death of that person, a hearing shall 
     be conducted before a judge to determine whether there is 
     probable cause for the State to bring criminal charges 
     against the law enforcement officer relating to the death of 
     the person, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Moulton, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Lance, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. 
             Katko, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. King of New York, 
             Mr. Courtney, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Zeldin, 
             and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 4333. A bill to provide for the issuance of a Lyme 
     Disease Research Semipostal Stamp; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Torres, Mrs. Davis 
             of California, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             McEachin, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Ms. Lofgren, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Gallego, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Peterson, Mr. O'Halleran, 
             Mr. Gomez, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Walz, Ms. Titus, Mr. Ruiz, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Carson of Indiana, 
             Ms. McCollum, and Mr. Evans):
       H.R. 4334. A bill to provide for certain reporting 
     requirements relating to medical care for women veterans 
     provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs and through 
     contracts entered into by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     with non-Department medical providers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CORREA:
       H.R. 4335. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for headstones and markers for, and interment in 
     national cemeteries of, deceased spouses and dependent 
     children of members of the Armed Forces serving on active 
     duty, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Minnesota (for himself, Mr. Ferguson, 
             Mr. Garrett, and Mr. Smucker):
       H.R. 4336. A bill to amend the institutional refunds 
     provision of the Higher Education Act of 1965; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 4337. A bill to amend the Defense Production Act of 
     1950 to require national security reviews carried out by the 
     Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States to take 
     into account the potential effects of

[[Page H8696]]

     covered transactions on personally identifiable information; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Foreign Affairs, and Energy and Commerce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. TENNEY:
       H.R. 4338. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish urns 
     for the remains of certain veterans whose remains are placed 
     in non-traditional resting sites; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. 
             Kinzinger, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Shimkus, 
             Mr. Moolenaar, and Mr. Carbajal):
       H.R. 4339. A bill to establish a Department of Agriculture 
     loan program to support mentorship and apprenticeship 
     opportunities for veterans of the Armed Forces to become 
     farmers or ranchers; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself and Mr. Smith of Texas):
       H.R. 4340. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to eliminate the diversity immigrant program, to focus 
     family-sponsored immigration on spouses and minor children, 
     and make mandatory and permanent requirements relating to use 
     of an electronic employment eligibility verification system; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, and Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Gene 
             Green of Texas, Ms. Kaptur, and Mr. Schiff):
       H.R. 4341. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to require corporations to disclose to their 
     shareholders the amounts disbursed for certain political 
     activity, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Khanna, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Norton, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 4342. A bill to amend chapter 44 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to restrict the ability of a person whose 
     Federal license to import, manufacture, or deal in firearms 
     has been revoked, whose application to renew such a license 
     has been denied, or who has received a license revocation or 
     renewal denial notice, to transfer business inventory 
     firearms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Nadler, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 4343. A bill to amend the NICS Improvement Amendments 
     Act of 2007 to provide notification to relevant law 
     enforcement agencies in the event that a background check 
     conducted by the National Instant Criminal Background Check 
     System determines that a person may not receive a firearm, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             McGovern, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 4344. A bill to incentivize State reporting systems 
     that allow mental health professionals to submit information 
     on certain individuals deemed dangerous for purposes of 
     prohibiting firearm possession by such individuals, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CRIST (for himself and Mr. Denham):
       H.R. 4345. A bill to direct the Attorney General to 
     establish and carry out a Veteran Treatment Court Program; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, and 
             Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 4346. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for clarification regarding the children to whom 
     entitlement to educational assistance may be transferred 
     under the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself, Mr. Panetta, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Jones, Mr. Soto, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
             Ross, Ms. McSally, and Mr. Bilirakis):
       H.R. 4347. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     include veterans in the military adaptive sports program of 
     the Department of Defense; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 4348. A bill to direct the Director of National 
     Intelligence to produce a National Intelligence Estimate on 
     Russian political intentions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), and in addition 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4349. A bill to require reporting by the Secretary of 
     Education on missed opportunities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4350. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to require the Secretary of Labor to submit 
     to Congress an annual report relating to the amount of funds 
     requested and awarded through YouthBuild programs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4351. A bill to require reporting by the Department of 
     Education on requests for funding projects or programs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4352. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to require reporting by the 
     Secretary of Education on requests for funding research that 
     were not granted and had the greatest potential for improving 
     career and technical education, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4353. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     require reporting by the National Institutes of Health on 
     requests for funding research that were not granted and had 
     the greatest potential for improving public health, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4354. A bill to require reporting by the National 
     Science Foundation on requests for funding research that were 
     not granted and had the greatest potential for promoting 
     scientific progress and advancing national health, 
     prosperity, and welfare, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4355. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     require reporting by the Department of Transportation on 
     requests for funding projects or programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4356. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     require reporting by the Department of Transportation on 
     requests for funding projects or programs through the Airport 
     Improvement Program; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4357. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require certain additional budgetary information to be 
     included in the annual report submitted to Congress on the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 4358. A bill to require the Commissioner of Internal 
     Revenue to report on applications for tax credits under the 
     low-income housing tax credit program that, in the preceding 
     fiscal year, were approved but not allocated; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself and Mr. 
             Ruiz):
       H.R. 4359. A bill to provide for rental assistance for 
     homeless or at-risk Indian veterans; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Gomez, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. Norton, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Raskin, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Velazquez, and Mr. Smith 
             of Washington):
       H.R. 4360. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     include local government minimum wage requirements in 
     determining the hourly minimum wage applicable for purposes 
     of the work-study allowance under the educational assistance 
     programs administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 4361. A bill to require the use of macroeconomic 
     analysis in estimating the budgetary effects of major revenue 
     legislation; to the Committee on the Budget, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself, Mr. Gallego, and Ms. 
             Sinema):
       H.R. 4362. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for priority in the award of State home facility 
     grants to nursing homes and domiciliaries from States that 
     the Secretary determines have a great

[[Page H8697]]

     or significant need for beds and which are located at least 
     100 miles away from the nearest existing State home facility; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Huffman, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Kihuen, and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 4363. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a veterans conservation corps, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, the Judiciary, and Science, Space, and 
     Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 4364. A bill to authorize the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency, at the request of a Governor 
     of a State, to waive the reformulated gasoline prohibitions 
     and requirements under section 211(k) of the Clean Air Act 
     with respect to the State or a portion of the State if the 
     Administrator determines that the price of gasoline is 
     excessively high; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 4365. A bill to require the prompt reporting for 
     national instant criminal background check system purposes of 
     members of the Armed Forces convicted of domestic violence 
     offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. TORRES:
       H.R. 4366. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make payments to 
     individuals entitled to educational assistance under the 
     Post-9/11 Educational Assistance program who pursue a program 
     of education solely through distance learning to be used to 
     purchase computers; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 4367. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide guaranteed disaster loans to certain small business 
     concerns, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small 
     Business.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 4368. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     require that community development block grant funds provided 
     for the same purpose as assistance under certain disaster 
     relief programs of the Small Business Act be used to repay 
     such assistance, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Small Business, and in addition to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Evans, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, and Mr. Payne):
       H.R. 4369. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     codify the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     assign a disability rating of total to a veteran by reason of 
     unemployability, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Francis Rooney 
             of Florida, Mr. Perry, and Mr. Pearce):
       H.R. 4370. A bill to amend the Natural Gas Act to expedite 
     approval of exports of small volumes of natural gas, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H. Res. 612. A resolution recognizing and reaffirming the 
     critical relationship between the United States and the 
     Republic of Korea since the establishment of the Republic of 
     Korea in 1948; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTER of Texas (for himself, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Williams, Mr. Cole, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Zeldin, Mrs. Love, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Schrader, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Garrett, Mr. Rogers of 
             Kentucky, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Costa, and Mr. Palazzo):
       H. Res. 613. A resolution supporting the goal of ensuring 
     that members of the Armed Forces have opportunities to 
     receive career technical education training and credentialing 
     opportunities during their term of service to ensure they can 
     transition directly into in-demand civilian careers; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Smith of 
             New Jersey, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Mr. Rokita, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Tonko, 
             Mr. Sires, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, and Mr. Bishop of Georgia):
       H. Res. 614. A resolution celebrating the 99th anniversary 
     of Polish independence; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



