

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8300]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     MINNESOTA'S NEW HALL OF FAMER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a leader in our 
community who has received a great honor. Skip Dolan, the head boys 
basketball coach for the Annandale Cardinals, was inducted into the 
Minnesota Basketball Coaches Hall of Fame in October. I am not going to 
go through all of his statistics, although they are quite impressive.
  I think it is important that we note that a good coach can have a 
major impact on a kid's life. Coaches don't just teach a game to our 
kids, they ingrain important life skills in their minds. They teach our 
kids how to work with others and how to act as a team. They teach our 
children the value of practice and perseverance, and they teach our 
kids how to compete with honor, dignity, and how to win with grace.
  A good coach guides our kids along the road to success, which is why 
I am so happy that we have a coach like Skip Dolan in our community. We 
can never thank him enough for working with and teaching our kids, and 
we congratulate him on this incredible honor.


                       A Retiring Public Servant

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank Monticello Public 
Schools Superintendent Jim Johnson for his work and dedication to 
Minnesota's children.
  After 18 years serving Monticello, 12 of them spent as 
superintendent, Jim is heading into a well-deserved retirement.
  Under Jim's close supervision, schools within his district have 
produced outstanding test scores, increased graduation rates, and 
higher enrollment in AP classes. He also played an important role 
improving his district's athletic facilities.
  Not only did Jim help better academics at the schools under his 
careful watch, he also helped ensure that his district's students had 
everything they needed to succeed in life.
  Jim, we can't thank you enough for the work you have done to educate 
our kids. Our kids are our future, and because of you, our future is 
very bright.


                   The Newest Sauk Rapids Ambassadors

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate three young 
women in my district who have earned an exciting leadership role in the 
community.
  Bethlehem Kobluk, Brooklyn Harren, and Madeline Bell have all been 
named 2017 Sauk Rapids Community Ambassadors.

  As community ambassadors, Bethlehem, Brooklyn, and Madeline will 
participate in a 9-week program that will help them develop their 
leadership skills by participating in activities that engage the 
community.
  The people who end up making the most difference in this world are 
the ones who show up for others.
  We want to congratulate these young women on their new roles and 
thank them for their interest in making life better for those around 
them.
  Thank you, Bethlehem, Brooklyn, and Madeline, for showing up for Sauk 
Rapids. I know you all have bright futures ahead, and we look forward 
to seeing what you will accomplish next.

                          ____________________



