

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 196 (Friday, December 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 196 (Friday, December 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9593]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       RECOGNIZING WORLD AIDS DAY

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank you, and I want to extend my 
courtesies to the gentleman from Texas for his courtesy as well, Mr. Al 
Green.
  I stand here today because this is World AIDS Day. Since 1988, we 
have commemorated World AIDS Day. I have on my lapel, if you will, on 
my shawl, a red ribbon which symbolizes remembrance.
  Earlier today I called in to the Thomas Street Clinic, as I have 
celebrated with them for many years, and while I was in Washington, I 
wanted to give them the recognition as fighters against HIV/AIDS.
  It does not seem that long ago, but HIV/AIDS affected many around the 
world before the disease even made its way to America's shores. 
Countless researchers, healthcare providers, politicians, and educators 
have contributed to the global initiative to contain and eventually 
eliminate its presence in all corners of the world.
  I remember going to Zambia on the first Presidential trip dealing 
with HIV/AIDS around the world. 38.6 million people worldwide were 
living with HIV at the end of 2005, and more than 25 million have died 
of AIDS since 1981.
  In December, we remember that, and that is what this day is: a day of 
remembrance, when an estimated 1 million to 1.2 million HIV-positive 
individuals live in the United States and approximately 56,000 new 
infections occur every year.
  Mr. Speaker, my district is impacted, upwards of 22,000 people. Texas 
is impacted.
  Today is a day of remembrance to honor those we lost and to commit to 
those we fight for.
  Mr. Speaker, established by the World Health Organization in 1988, 
December 1st is universally known as World AIDS Day.
  World AIDS Day serves to focus global attention on the devastating 
impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
  All governments, national AIDS programs, churches, community 
organizations and individuals are given the opportunity to display 
their commitment to fight this deadly disease.
  It has been more than 30 years since the first AIDS case was reported 
in the United States.
  It does not seem like it was too long ago, but HIV/AIDS had affected 
many around the world before the disease even made its way to America's 
shores.
  Since then, countless researchers, healthcare providers, politicians, 
and educators have contributed to the global initiative to contain and 
eventually eliminate its presence in all corners of the world.
  Although HIV/AIDS is no longer a mysterious and mischaracterized 
entity, it is the most relentless and indiscriminate killer of our 
time.
  And though a diagnosis is no longer the sealing of an immediate fate, 
it is the beginning of an indefinite battle for life, adequate health 
care, and for social belonging.
  With an estimated 38.6 million people worldwide living with HIV at 
the end of 2005, and more than 25 million people having died of AIDS 
since 1981, December 1st is a date which serves to remind everyone that 
action makes a difference in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
  Let there be no mistake, we are here to acknowledge that AIDS is a 
deadly enemy against which we must join all our forces to fight and 
eliminate.
  Americans should be reminded that HIV/AIDS does not discriminate.
  With an estimated 1,039,000 to 1,185,000 HIV-positive individuals 
living in the U.S., and approximately 56,000 new infections occurring 
every year, the U.S., like other nations around the world, is deeply 
affected by HIV/AIDS.
  The detrimental effects of HIV/AIDS have also hit home. More than 
65,000 people in Texas are living with HIV.
  Thirty-six percent more Texans are living with HIV today than just 
seven years ago. In 2010, studies showed that 1 in every 3 diagnosed 
persons in Texas were not getting proper medical treatment.
  We must make certain that every affected individual receive efficient 
medical treatment that will afford them long life.
  Not only is the state of Texas suffering from HIV and AIDS, but my 
district, the 18th Congressional District of Texas, has seen an 
increasing number of people living with the disease.
  In 2010, there were over 22,000 reported persons living with HIV 
(non-AIDS) in the greater Houston area, and more than 9,000 reported 
persons living with AIDS.
  This problem continues to escalate as there have been 1,700 new 
infections each year among individuals in Harris County, particularly 
among racial and ethnic minorities.
  We must continue to fight a tough fight to reverse all of these 
costly and tragic trends.
  I will continue to sponsor and co-sponsor legislation that addresses 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
  The fight is not over.
  We must continue to stand strong in our struggle to conquer some old 
and new challenges that we as Americans and members of the global 
community encounter.
  Today, Friday, December 1st, is World AIDS Day.
  And, we will focus on HIV/AIDS, prevention and awareness, and 
continue to fight for life.
  Together, we will help all of our friends, relatives, and children 
live healthy and full lives.

                          ____________________



