

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H10179]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of committees were delivered to 
the Clerk for printing and reference to the proper calendar, as 
follows:

       Mr. SHUSTER: Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure. H.R. 3813. A bill to designate a human 
     trafficking prevention coordinator and to expand the scope of 
     activities authorized under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
     Administration's outreach and education program to include 
     human trafficking prevention activities, and for other 
     purposes (Rept. 115-467). Referred to the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. SHUSTER: Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure. H.R. 3814. A bill to disqualify from 
     operating a commercial motor vehicle for life an individual 
     who uses a commercial motor vehicle in committing a felony 
     involving human trafficking (Rept. 115-468). Referred to the 
     Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. WALDEN: Committee on Energy and Commerce. H.R. 2465. A 
     bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make 
     permanent the removal of the rental cap for durable medical 
     equipment under the Medicare program with respect to speech 
     generating devices (Rept. 115-469, Pt. 1). Referred to the 
     Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Natural Resources. H.R. 
     1350. A bill to modify the boundary of Voyageurs National 
     Park in the State of Minnesota, and for other purposes (Rept. 
     115-470). Referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
     state of the Union.
       Mr. SMITH of Texas: Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology. H.R. 4375. A bill to provide for a study on 
     broadening participation in certain National Science 
     Foundation research and education programs, to collect data 
     on Federal research grants to science agencies, and for other 
     purposes (Rept. 115-471). Referred to the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. SMITH of Texas: Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology. H.R. 4254. A bill to amend the National Science 
     Foundation Authorization Act of 2002 to strengthen the 
     aerospace workforce pipeline by the promotion of Robert Noyce 
     Teacher Scholarship Program and National Aeronautics and 
     Space Administration internship and fellowship opportunities 
     to women, and for other purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 
     115-472). Referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
     state of the Union.
       Mr. SMITH of Texas: Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology. H.R. 4323. A bill to promote veteran involvement 
     in STEM education, computer science, and scientific research, 
     and for other purposes (Rept. 115-473). Referred to the 
     Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. SESSIONS: Committee on Rules. House Resolution 667. A 
     resolution providing for consideration of the conference 
     report to accompany the bill (H.R. 1) to provide for 
     reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent 
     resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018; providing for 
     consideration of the bill (H.R. 3312) to amend the Dodd-Frank 
     Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify 
     when bank holding companies may be subject to certain 
     enhanced supervision, and for other purposes; and for other 
     purposes (Rept. 115-474). Referred to the House Calendar.


                         DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE

       Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the Committee on Ways 
     and Means discharged from further consideration. H.R. 2465 
     referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of 
     the Union.

                          ____________________



