

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6764]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        REMEMBERING JEREMY SHULL

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, today I would like to honor and pay 
tribute to my former staffer Jeremy Shull. Jeremy came to my office in 
2004 as a fellow. He quickly advanced and became the deputy military 
legislative assistant in a short period of time. Jeremy was full of 
life, always had a big smile on his face, and brought a lot of joy into 
my office. I would like to share a bit about Jeremy's life and family 
and then about his time in my office.
  At the age of only 35, Jeremy fell into the arms of Jesus, doing what 
he loved: climbing Capitol Peak in Aspen, CO, on August 6. He was the 
loving husband of 7 years to Jamie and the proud father of 2-month-old, 
Jack. Jeremy was born in Cincinnati, OH, on March 9, 1982, to his 
parents, Bob and Linda Shull, and was raised alongside his two 
brothers, Ben and Josh. From an early age, Jeremy's love of the 
outdoors and his leadership skills were apparent to all. He went on to 
graduate from Perrysburg High School, in Ohio, and Grove City College, 
in Pennsylvania, where he discovered his love of rugby and 
international travel.
  After college, he made his way to Washington, DC, where he was 
involved in the Falls Church Fellows Program and worked on Capitol Hill 
in my office. During this time he met the love of his life, Jamie, at 
Summer's Best Two Weeks, a Christian sports camp in Boswell, PA, and 
the two were married in 2010. As a couple, Jeremy and Jamie lived and 
worked in Washington, DC, Uganda, and went to graduate school at Geneva 
College in Pennsylvania. In 2014, Jeremy earned his master's degree in 
counseling and eventually went on to earn his LAC and LPC licenses with 
concentrations in trauma and addictions.
  Shortly after earning their degrees, Jeremy and Jamie moved out west 
to Parker, CO, to pursue their adventurous dreams. Jeremy worked at a 
crisis stabilization unit and in other settings where he counseled 
clients in their worst moments, helping them to create vision and hope 
for their futures. To quote Jeremy, he served others, ``to sustain the 
weary and help clients overcome internal walls between them and a 
thriving life.'' This past May, they welcomed their beautiful son, Jack 
Ellis, into their family.
  Jeremy is remembered by his wife, Jamie, and their 2-month-old son, 
Jack. He is survived by Bob and Linda Shull of Fairlawn, OH, brother 
Ben and his wife Emily Shull, and nieces Piper and Scout Shull of 
Cincinnati, OH, brother Josh Shull of Washington, DC, grandparents 
Norma Hissong of Bath, OH, Ken and Meg Shull of Seneca, South Carolina, 
numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins in Ohio and South Carolina, mother 
and father-in-law Mike and Teri Maurer and brother-in-law Justin Maurer 
of Washington, DC.
  In 2007, Jeremy traveled with me on a CODEL to Ireland, Ethiopia, 
Djibouti, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, France, and Italy. The CODEL was en 
route to Africa when we had a required crew stop. The stop happened to 
be only about 45 miles away from where my daughter Molly was teaching 
and staying with her family. We only had about 24 hours on the ground, 
and it was meant for a time for us to adjust from jet lag, but Jeremy 
and I, along with my son-in-law and grandson, drove to the base of Mt. 
Grappa, which is close to sea level. Four hours later, we reached the 
top, which was 5,800 feet in elevation. We walked to the World War I 
monuments at the top of Mt. Grappa and hiked back down.
  Later in the trip, when we had a break from our meetings, the 
delegation divided up and some of my staff decided to do a little 
sightseeing in Venice but Jeremy chose to stay back and play soccer 
with my daughter's kids. In doing so, he gave the rest of the 
delegation a real gift. Jeremy had been to Venice a few years before 
and had hidden a =100 note behind a brick in a wall hanging over one of 
the many canals. He gave us a list of clues as we went to Venice. 
Instead of sightseeing, we spent the time following the clues Jeremy 
gave to us and finally discovered the location. When our military 
escort pulled the brick out of the canal wall, he found the =100 note 
laying behind it. We took a photo of the note and then placed it back 
in the wall. We were careful to make sure that nobody saw us replace 
it. It was a very clever set of clues, and it became the most memorable 
times to visit Venice. Afterwards, we asked Jeremy why he hid this 
money in Venice and also in a couple other European cities. He said 
that one day he wanted to bring his future wife to Europe and take her 
on a treasure hunt. That was Jeremy. He was overflowing with adventure 
and very intentional in how he lived out his life of adventure.
  Jeremy had a strong faith in Jesus Christ and lived his life to the 
full. Jeremy was best known for his adventurous spirit, curious nature, 
intentional relationships, and servant-heart. He was a volunteer 
firefighter and was devoted to his growing family. He put others first, 
and in a culture and generation that is more me focused, Jeremy was the 
opposite, always putting others before himself. I loved Jeremy--his 
steadfastness, his love for Jesus, and his desire to enjoy the outdoors 
that God created. He will be missed by everyone who was close to him 
and who he touched. He will also be missed by me and my office.

                          ____________________



