

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9627]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  TRIBUTE TO MARINE MAJOR ERIC BURKETT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Kelly) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of one 
of my constituents, United States Marine Major Eric Burkett, from New 
Castle, Pennsylvania.
  Major Burkett was deployed as a member of the 24th Expeditionary 
Force in Morocco as an Osprey pilot. On April 11, 2012, he was nearly 
killed in a plane crash, which took the lives of two of his brothers-
in-arms.
  After coming home to Walter Reed, he lost one of his legs and 
continues to recover from his numerous injuries to this day. His wife, 
Melissa, who also is a former marine, has been by his side from day 1, 
along with their loving six children.
  Major Burkett may never fly again, but already with his recovery he 
soars high above most of us. It was his spirit of service and 
patriotism that led him to start a program at Fort Belvoir for adaptive 
archery for his fellow wounded warriors.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a poem penned by Albert Carey 
Caswell in his honor and in celebration of his new adaptive home, built 
thanks to the Gary Sinise Foundation.
  At this time, I will read an excerpt from this poem:

     As his two brothers, angels now up to Heaven would rise . . .
     Coming back home with only his family upon which to rely . . 
           .
     So all by his side . . .
     His fine wife, Melissa, and children giving him the strength 
           to try . . .
     As he knew it was time . . .
     Time to rebuild his life . . .
     Armed with his heart of the strength and iron will . . .
     Giving him the power and courage to nourish him to instill . 
           . .
     The strength to rebuild . . .
     Who against all odds our wounded warriors into that dark 
           night move onward still . . .

  Mr. Speaker, it is people like Major Burkett, whom we celebrate. It 
is the people who put themselves in danger and harm's way in order to 
protect the rest of us. I am so proud and humble today to be able to 
submit this poem in honor of Major Burkett.

                            Osprey De Corps

                       (By Albert Carey Caswell)

     Osprey
     Osprey De Corps
     What a magnificent presence oh for sure
     And oh what a Osprey De Force
     As straight as an arrow heading for
     Truer than true into that face of war
     To serve and protect
     His Country Tis of Thee he'll not neglect
     To reek havoc upon the enemy a shear train wreck
     All in those magnificent shades of green
     Such Strength In Honor seen
     Soaring to new his courage convenes
     With such impact this United States Marine.
     Oh to be a United States Marine
     Who in Strength In Honor are seen
     Soaring to new heights to intervene
     To fight the fight
     What a Osprey De Force awesome sight
     Who for all us out on his course took flight
     Marines with wings,
     one of the most impressive of all things
     A sheer work of art this human being
     Swooping down upon the enemy for the Nation he so loves
     A bulls eye,
     hitting his mark all in his battle cry
     To vanquish an enemy straight into the heart of he flies
     Going from vertical to horizontal as he
     will not be denied
     In and out of places others dare not to try
     Making those boots on the ground realize
     That he's got their backs up on high
     Who bleeds Marine green all the time
     And loves Marines so much he married a Marine this guy
     One of the baddest of the bad upon which this Nation relies
     Who leads with his heart as he sets
     his sights on high
     Finding his mark
     An Osprey De Corps all in his part
     Oh what a force
     All out on his most heroic course
     A United States Marine burning bright,
     this force
     When, out on a mission crashed as death was at his side
     As his two brothers,
     angels now up to Heaven would rise
     Coming back home with only his family upon which to rely
     So all by his side
     His fine wife Melissa and children giving him the strength to 
           try
     As he knew it was time
     Time to rebuild his life
     Armed with his heart of the strength and iron will
     Giving him the power and courage to nourish him to instill
     The strength to rebuild
     Who against all odds our wounded warriors into that dark 
           night move onward
     still
     As he won the battle but lose his leg
     Realizing he'd never fly again on that day
     When, he looked at his target and then his options weighted
     So setting his sights high out on his way
     A Osprey De Corps on his way to recovery with tear in eye 
           seemed as he prayed
     Bulls eye hitting the mark
     As soon he was up and out the door
     Leaving behind a town called pity for sure
     When, to new heights his heart so soared
     To Teach Us
     To Reach Us
     To Beseech Us All The More
     Creating his own Hunger Games,
     with his great appetite for recovery he hungered for
     And the last time I saw Major Burkett,
     I had to look up
     Because, with his fine heart way above me he so soars
     His wife Melissa he married up for sure
     With four beautiful children he's thinks he is the luckiest 
           guy and can't ask for
     more
     Because, the families are the unsung heroes whenever Johnny 
           goes off to war
     Who are the ones who must wait and worry all the more
     And when they come home give them such comfort for their 
           recovery to insure
     And where would all these heroes be if it were not but for 
           all of these?
     The families are our unsung heroes each day our Lord so sees
     Leading the way to recovery
     Major Burkett all in those shades of green
     Is one magnificent Osprey De Force seen
     The pride of Pennsylvania for what he's done and where he's 
           been
     Its courageous men like him off to war our Nation sends
     Who help win all those wars upon whom we depend
     For all that we hold sacred and so love and adore
     A one fine Osprey De Corps
     Ooo Rah!

                          ____________________



