

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO BETTY SCHOENBAUM

 Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I wish to recognize a prolific 
philanthropist, successful businesswoman, and extraordinary friend to 
the people of West Virginia, Betty Frank Schoenbaum, on the occasion of 
her 100th birthday. Countless West Virginians, Americans, and people 
all over the world have benefited and continue to benefit from the 
endeavors of Betty and her late husband, Alex Schoenbaum.
  Betty received her degree in commerce from the Ohio State University 
in 1939; it was there that she met Alex, and the two would begin their 
lifelong proclivity toward helping the underprivileged. They would 
marry and move to Charleston, WV, soon after, beginning a successful 
business career that would increase the impact of their generosity.
  Starting with the Parkette Drive-In on Charleston's West Side, the 
Schoenbaums built a prosperous restaurant chain that would eventually 
be known as Shoney's. The chain grew into over 1,000 locations across 
dozens of States, employing many West Virginians as it became an iconic 
American brand. Not content to rest on their success, Betty and Alex 
sought to share their good fortune with the world.
  The philanthropic gifts made by the Schoenbaums are too numerous to 
list individually. During Alex's lifetime, he and Betty established the 
Schoenbaum Fund at the Greater Kanawha Valley Foundation in Charleston, 
which was used to purchase sports and recreation equipment for over 200 
public schools in the Kanawha Valley. They also established the 
Schoenbaum Scholarship Foundation and the Schoenbaum Family Foundation, 
which continues to give to numerous organizations, including the Boy 
Scouts of America, the Children's Home Society of West Virginia, 
Mountaineer Food Bank, Mountaineer Habitat for Humanity, and the United 
Way of Kanawha Valley.
  Since Alex's passing, Betty has continued to give, establishing the 
Schoenbaum Family Enrichment Center, funding the construction of a 
Library at the University of Charleston and an undergraduate college of 
business building at the Ohio State University, and endowing 
scholarships at West Virginia University and the Ohio State University.
  Betty may be celebrating her 100th birthday, but age has not slowed 
her down. She continues to serve as the president of the Schoenbaum 
Family Foundation and as a board member for several foundations, 
committees, and organizations. She is also an active member of the 
Sarasota, FL, community. According to Betty, there is great joy and 
purpose to be had from a life of giving to your fellow man. I believe I 
speak for many when I say we can all benefit from her example. I wish 
her many more years of health and happiness.

                          ____________________



