

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7333-S7335]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Wyoming

[[Page S7334]]

(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under the 
Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill 
to require Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and 
reports in electronic form.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to improve the 
ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, 
other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 777

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 777, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow deductions and credits relating 
to expenditures in connection with marijuana sales conducted in 
compliance with State law.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1158, a bill to 
help prevent acts of genocide and other atrocity crimes, which threaten 
national and international security, by enhancing United States 
Government capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1169, a bill to amend 
title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide States with an option 
to provide medical assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 
64 for inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at certain 
facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Thune, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that 
section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against 
providers and users of interactive computer services of Federal and 
State criminal and civil law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1829, a bill to amend title 
V of the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, Infant, and Early 
Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1873

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1873, a bill to require the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to carry out a program to establish peer specialists 
in patient aligned care teams at medical centers of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1893

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1893, a bill to amend the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify 
when bank holding companies may be subject to certain enhanced 
supervision, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1945, a bill to 
regulate large capacity ammunition feeding devices.


                                S. 1995

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1995, a bill to amend the 
Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to improve the number of small 
business investment companies in underlicensed States, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2038

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2038, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for a presumption of herbicide 
exposure for certain veterans who served in Korea, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2088

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2088, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to provide for the issuance of the Gold Star 
Installation Access Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, 
and other next of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while 
serving on certain active or reserve duty, to ensure that a remarried 
surviving spouse with dependent children of the deceased member remains 
eligible for installation benefits to which the surviving spouse was 
previously eligible, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2089

  At the request of Mr. Casey, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2089, a bill to amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 to provide equal 
treatment of LGBT older individuals, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2125

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2125, a bill to improve the State 
response to the opioid abuse crisis.


                                S. 2132

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2132, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to ensure that working families have 
access to affordable health insurance coverage.


                                S. 2136

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2136, a bill 
to expand the monthly payments that may be eligible for public service 
loan forgiveness.


                                S. 2141

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2141, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to reform procedures for 
determinations on disposition of charges and the convening of courts-
martial for certain offenses under the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2146

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2146, a bill to extend the full Federal medical 
assistance percentage to urban Indian organizations.


                                S. 2148

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2148, a bill to authorize 
dedicated domestic terrorism offices within the Department of Homeland 
Security, the Department of Justice, and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation to analyze and

[[Page S7335]]

monitor domestic terrorist activity and require the Federal Government 
to take steps to prevent domestic terrorism.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2159, a bill to 
require covered harassment and covered discrimination awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered harassment and covered discrimination complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 291

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 291, a resolution affirming 
the historical connection of the Jewish people to the ancient and 
sacred city of Jerusalem and condemning efforts at the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to deny 
Judaism's millennia-old historical, religious, and cultural ties to 
Jerusalem.


                              S. RES. 310

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 310, a resolution 
recognizing the importance of a continued commitment to ending 
pediatric AIDS worldwide.


                              S. RES. 342

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 342, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that States, cities, Tribal nations, 
businesses, and institutions of higher education in the United States 
should work towards achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement.

                          ____________________



