

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6999]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL RICHARD C. NASH

 Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and 
celebrate the career of Minnesota Adjutant General Richard C. Nash. 
Major General Nash retired on October 31st, after leading the Minnesota 
National Guard for the past 7 years. His leadership has ensured the 
excellence of the Minnesota National Guard.
  Major General Nash enlisted in the infantry in 1972 and quickly rose 
through the ranks, earning a commission as a second lieutenant 
following completion of officer candidate school. Since then, he has 
commanded at all levels, starting as a company level commander and 
rising to lead the U.S. Divisions-South supporting Operation Iraqi 
Freedom in 2010.
  In November of 2010, Major General Nash was appointed by Governor Tim 
Pawlenty to be the adjutant general of the Minnesota National Guard. In 
this role, he has skillfully commanded Minnesota's Army and Air 
National Guard units not only in missions in Minnesota, but also as 
they have served across the globe, in places such as Iraq, the Sinai 
Peninsula, and the Baltics. Under Major General Nash's stewardship, the 
Minnesota National Guard has performed every mission reliably and with 
distinction.
  I have had the honor of working closely with Major General Nash 
during my time in office. He has been a tireless advocate for the Guard 
on issues ranging from installations, to the Guard's renewable energy 
use, to the important task of ensuring the Guard's annual priorities 
are met. One area I worked particularly closely with Major General Nash 
on has been our efforts to expand medical, education, and retirement 
benefits that had been previously denied to National Guard soldiers 
deployed under the 12304b authority. Major General Nash has been a 
strong voice on this issue, and his work was critical to my efforts to 
enact bipartisan legislation to ensure Minnesota Guardsmen and 
Reservists have access to these services. Our veterans have earned 
these benefits through their service and sacrifice to our country, and 
they should not be denied those benefits.
  In addition to his exemplary leadership of the Minnesota Guard's 
service in missions foreign and domestic, Major General Nash deserves 
special recognition for his work preparing the force for future energy 
and sustainability challenges. In particular, his work developing the 
Minnesota Guard's sustainable infrastructure has made the Minnesota 
Guard a pioneer in the use of solar and geothermal energy initiatives. 
In 2011, Minnesota National Guard facilities set a goal to reduce 
energy consumption by 3 percent. Forty-one Minnesota National Guard 
armories participated in this program and energy consumption was 
reduced by an average of 5.4 percent year over year through the use of 
geothermal and solar thermal heating, water reuse, solid waste 
recycling, as well as natural and LED lighting. Furthermore, all new 
construction projects under Major General Nash's leadership have been 
designed to LEED standards. These developments are so important because 
they reduce the Guard's reliance on fossil fuels and foreign oil, 
support jobs in the local economy, and reduce energy costs for the 
Guard, allowing them to invest more in our civilian soldier's 
readiness, training, and education. The work Major General Nash has 
done to prepare for future energy and sustainability challenges has 
ensured that the Minnesota National Guard will continue to lead the 
country on the battlefield and at home.
  Finally, I want to note with my gratitude Major General Nash's many 
years of service as a judge in my annual poetry contest that allows 
Minnesota students to write about a military veteran who has made a 
difference in their lives. Each year, he spends hours reading these 
heartfelt poems and helping me decide which ones will hang in my Senate 
office.
  I would like to extend my best wishes to Major General Nash upon his 
retirement and wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors. Thank 
you, General Nash. Your service to our Nation and our State has been 
indispensable and invaluable. Above all, it has made a difference to 
the men and women who served under you.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



