

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7485]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of committees were delivered to 
the Clerk for printing and reference to the proper calendar, as 
follows:

       Mr. BRADY of Texas: Committee on Ways and Means. 
     Supplemental report on H.R. 2824. A bill to amend title V of 
     the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, Infant, and 
     Early Childhood Home Visiting Program (Rept. 115-315, Pt. 2).
       Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Natural Resources. H.R. 
     2199. A bill to improve Federal land management, resource 
     conservation, environmental protection, and use of Federal 
     real property, by requiring the Secretary of the Interior to 
     develop a multipurpose cadastre of Federal real property and 
     identifying inaccurate, duplicate, and out-of-date Federal 
     land inventories, and for other purposes (Rept. 115-322). 
     Referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of 
     the Union.
       Mr. McCAUL: Committee on Homeland Security. H.R. 3551. A 
     bill to amend the Security and Accountability for Every Port 
     Act of 2006 to reauthorize the Customs-Trade Partnership 
     Against Terrorism Program, and for other purposes; with an 
     amendment (Rept. 115-323). Referred to the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Ms. FOXX: Committee on Education and the Workforce. H.R. 
     986. A bill to clarify the rights of Indians and Indian 
     tribes on Indian lands under the National Labor Relations 
     Act; with an amendment (Rept. 115-324). Referred to the 
     Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Ms. FOXX: Committed on Education and the Workforce. H.R. 
     2775. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act to 
     require that lists of employees eligible to vote in 
     organizing elections be provided to the National Labor 
     Relations Board; with an amendment (Rept. 115-325). Referred 
     to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
     Union.
       Ms. FOXX: Committee n Education and the Workforce. H.R. 
     2776. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act with 
     respect to the timing of elections and pre-election hearings 
     and the identification of pre-election issues; with an 
     amendment (Rept. 115-326). Referred to the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. WALDEN: Committee on Energy and Commerce. H.R. 767. A 
     bill to establish the Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond to 
     Health and Wellness Training pilot program to address human 
     trafficking in the health care system with amendments; (Rept. 
     115-327). Referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
     state of the Union.
       Mr. WALDEN: Committee on Energy and Commerce. H.R. 2422. A 
     bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to improve 
     essential oral health care for low-income and other 
     undeserved individuals by breaking down barriers to care, and 
     for other purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 115-328). 
     Referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of 
     the Union.
       Mr. WALDEN: Committee on Energy and Commerce. H.R. 1222. A 
     bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to coordinate 
     Federal congenital heart disease research efforts and to 
     improve public education and awareness of congenital heart 
     disease, and for other purpose; with an amendment (Rept. 115-
     329). Referred to' the Committee of the Whole House on the 
     state of the Union.
       Mr. WALDEN: Committee on Energy and Commerce. H.R. 880. A 
     bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to facilitate 
     assignment of military trauma care providers to civilian 
     trauma centers in order to maintain military trauma readiness 
     and to support such centers, and for other purposes; with an 
     amendment (Rept. 115-330. Referred to the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. BURGESS: Committee on Rules. House Resolution 533. 
     Resolution providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
     2824) to amend title V of the Social Security Act to extend 
     the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting 
     Program; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2792) 
     to amend the Social Security Act to make certain revisions to 
     provisions limiting payment of benefits to fugitive felons 
     under titles II, VIII, and XVI of the Social Security Act; 
     and for other purposes (Rept. 115-331). Referred to the House 
     Calendar.

                          ____________________



