

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8046]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    RECOGNITION OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ELLY McNELIS AND BOBBY HEENAN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
accomplishments of two amazing Bucks Countians, Elly McNelis and Bobby 
Heenan.
  The Bucks County Central Labor Council has awarded the Trish Coyle 
Award to Elly McNelis, a member of AFSCME Local 1598, and president of 
the Neshaminy Bucks Coalition of Labor Union Women. Elly serves as a 
Bucks County crossing guard and is committed to strengthening the role 
of women in unions and increasing the involvement of women in the 
legislative process.
  The Bucks County Central Labor Council has also awarded Bobby Heenan 
with their Man of the Year Award. Bobby serves as the business manager 
for the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 542. Bobby and 
his team are committed to producing the most skilled and efficient 
heavy equipment operators in the industry.
  Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize these distinguished 
individuals for their service to their fellow working families and to 
our entire Bucks County community.


                     Breast Cancer Awareness Month

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, as the son and brother of breast cancer 
survivors, I understand the impact of this disease on families 
throughout our community. Each year, about 200,000 women are diagnosed 
with breast cancer, and more than 40,000 American women will die of 
this disease.
  It does not have to be this way, Mr. Speaker. This Breast Cancer 
Awareness Month, I am proud to be working with my colleague 
Congresswoman DeLauro in advocating for increased access to information 
about breast cancer that allows women and their doctors to make the 
best decisions possible.
  The fight against cancer is one that transcends politics. By working 
together, we can pass commonsense legislation that increases the 
quality of life and care for patients and, ultimately, put an end to 
this awful disease.


                   Prescription Pain Medication Abuse

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, nearly 70 percent of individuals who 
abuse prescription pain medication get them from their friends or 
family.
  As our community continues to grapple with the devastating effects of 
the opioid epidemic, it is crucial we take every step possible to stop 
prescription medications from falling into the wrong hands, including 
the collecting and safely disposing of unused or expired prescription 
drugs.
  My community in Bucks County has collected over 40 tons of unused 
medications, the most in Pennsylvania, as part of our successful 
Prescription Drug Take Back program. This collaborative effort between 
local government, law enforcement, and community leaders is crucial in 
the battle against this crisis.
  I commend those involved and urge all residents to participate in our 
next Take Back Day and to utilize the permanent drop boxes that are 
located throughout our region.

                          ____________________



