

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9262-H9263]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             HONORING MS. JEWEL BARKER ON HER 90TH BIRTHDAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Rush) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, in this season of trying and tough times made 
even tougher by the skullduggery of the Republican Members of this 
body, I rise today to pay tribute to my personal hero and longtime 
friend, Ms. Jewel Barker, who recently celebrated her 90th birthday.
  Mama Jewel, as she is affectionately known to so many, was born 
November 3, 1927, in Solgohachia, Arkansas. She grew up in Wardell, 
Missouri, and attended Central High School in Hayti, Missouri, and 
later she attended the Lincoln University in Pennsylvania.
  Mr. Speaker, Mama Jewel always felt a strong drive to improve her 
life which led to her residing and working in Kansas City and St. 
Louis, Missouri, before settling in our hometown of Chicago, Illinois, 
in 1956.
  Though she worked several jobs, her aspiration was to return to 
school to earn her teaching credentials. She attained this goal by 
receiving a master's degree in education from the Chicago Teachers 
College and, in later years, a master's degree from DePaul University 
in Chicago.
  Her love of justice for all people did not stop there. Her support 
for civil rights and equality culminated in her serving as ``Mama'' to 
the Illinois Chapter of the Black Panther Party.
  During Mama Jewel's 38 years as an educator, she served as a teacher, 
mentor, counselor, role model, and as a mother figure to many. She 
worked tirelessly, Mr. Speaker, with students and family members in 
programs that met before school, after school, and even on weekends. 
She provided housing and financial support for several young people so 
they could further their education.
  Mama Jewel's passion has always been focused on helping others and 
encouraging people to realize their full potential. This led her to 
playing an active part in the civil rights movement, a role that she 
first accepted when she organized a boycott in

[[Page H9263]]

Wardell, Missouri, in the 1950s, after its board of education failed to 
use money allocated there for indoor toilets in the African-American 
school.
  Mr. Speaker, her passion for this cause was so great that Mama Jewel 
went door to door asking parents not to send their children to school, 
a decision that ultimately led to an installation of those very same 
toilets. Even after retiring in 1994, she volunteered her time and her 
talents at her former school and at other schools where her former 
students taught.
  In addition to her love for family and her love for service, Mama 
Jewel has always been a well-rounded enthusiast, displaying many of her 
talents and interests, which include sports, theatrical performances, 
cooking, and baking. To this day, Mr. Speaker, she remains very active 
in her church and in her community.
  I know I am so blessed to know Mama Jewel. I am so blessed that Mama 
Jewel poured her all into my late son Huey's life. I am so blessed that 
she still is the matriarch of the family and of the movement.
  So on behalf of the citizens of the First Congressional District of 
Illinois, I would like to congratulate my friend, Mama Jewel Barker, on 
this milestone and wish her many, many, many more birthdays.
  May the Lord continue to bless Mama Jewel. May the Lord continue to 
shine His Shekinah glory upon Mama Jewel's countenance and upon her 
family.

                          ____________________



