

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7886-H7888]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Larsen 
             of Washington, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Ms. Norton, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Heck, 
             Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Evans, Mr. Takano, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 3963. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     pilot program to encourage the employment of veterans in 
     manufacturing positions; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. MacArthur, Mrs. Radewagen, and Miss 
             Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico):
       H.R. 3964. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     establish additional registration requirements for 
     prescribers of opioids, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself and Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 3965. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to make grants to eligible organizations for the 
     provision of transition assistance to members of the Armed 
     Forces recently separated from active duty service and 
     spouses of such members; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. PALMER (for himself, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Biggs, 
             and Mr. Brat):
       H.R. 3966. A bill to provide that provisions of title 46, 
     United States Code, popularly

[[Page H7887]]

     known as the Jones Act and relating to carriage of passenger 
     and merchandise in coastwise trade shall not apply for 5 
     years with respect to such carriage to and from Puerto Rico; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself and Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 3967. A bill to amend the Solid Waste Disposal Act to 
     authorize States to restrict interstate waste imports and 
     impose a higher fee on out-of-State waste; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, and Miss 
             Rice of New York):
       H.R. 3968. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide loan guarantees for the acquisition of cybersecurity 
     technology and services by eligible small businesses, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself and Mr. Norcross):
       H.R. 3969. A bill to amend title 11, United States Code, to 
     include certain pension as administrative expenses in 
     bankruptcy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
       H.R. 3970. A bill to assist communities affected by 
     stranded nuclear waste, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself, Mr. Sherman, and Mr. 
             Williams):
       H.R. 3971. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act and the 
     Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 to modify the 
     requirements for community financial institutions with 
     respect to certain rules relating to mortgage loans, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 3972. A bill to clarify that family offices and family 
     clients are accredited investors, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON (for himself and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 3973. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require certain entities to develop internal risk 
     control mechanisms to safeguard and govern the storage of 
     market data; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. AGUILAR:
       H.R. 3974. A bill to limit the use of taxpayer dollars on 
     non-commercial flights for cabinet officials, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             and Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3975. A bill to require covered entities to provide 
     notification in the case of a breach of unsecured sensitive 
     personally identifiable information in electronic or digital 
     form, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Allen, Mr. Cook, Ms. McSally, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Brat, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Gallagher, 
             Ms. Pingree, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, and Mr. Duncan 
             of Tennessee):
       H.R. 3976. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to allow for certain third party 
     payments; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FASO:
       H.R. 3977. A bill to establish the Infrastructure Bank for 
     America to serve as a lender for infrastructure projects, 
     both directly and through State and local governments, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Financial Services, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HILL (for himself and Mr. Kihuen):
       H.R. 3978. A bill to amend the Real Estate Settlement 
     Procedures Act of 1974 to modify requirements related to 
     mortgage disclosures, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. Sablan, Mr. 
             LoBiondo, and Mr. Thompson of California):
       H.R. 3979. A bill to amend the Fish and Wildlife Act of 
     1956 to reauthorize the volunteer services, community 
     partnership, and refuge education programs of the National 
     Wildlife Refuge System, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Payne, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Evans, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Rush, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Huffman, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. McEachin, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Keating, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Engel, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Yarmuth, 
             Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Ted Lieu 
             of California, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Perlmutter, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. Maxine Waters 
             of California, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Sires, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Shea-Porter, and 
             Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 3980. A bill to establish a United States Commission 
     on Hate Crimes to study and make recommendations on the 
     prevention of the commission of hate crimes, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McEACHIN:
       H.R. 3981. A bill to establish a cost of greenhouse gases 
     for carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide to be used by 
     Federal agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 3982. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the amount of, and remove the marriage 
     penalty with respect to, social security benefits excludable 
     from gross income; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 3983. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to remove the statue to the memory and in honor of Albert 
     Pike erected near Judiciary Square in the District of 
     Columbia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, 
             Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Himes, Mr. Huffman, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Pallone, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Sires, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Takano, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 3984. A bill to repeal the Protection of Lawful 
     Commerce in Arms Act, and provide for the discoverability and 
     admissibility of gun trace information in civil proceedings; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TROTT (for himself and Mrs. Brooks of Indiana):
       H.R. 3985. A bill to establish a working group of public 
     and private entities led by the Food and Drug Administration 
     to recommend voluntary frameworks and guidelines to increase 
     the security and resilience of Internet of Medical Things 
     devices, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. 
             Serrano):
       H.R. 3986. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     national standard for incorporating a passive identification 
     ability into all firearms sold in the United States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Meeks, Mr. Espaillat, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Engel, Mr. Gutierrez, and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 3987. A bill to reduce gun violence, fund gun violence 
     research and victim assistance, and enhance the tracking of 
     lost and stolen firearms, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALKER:
       H.R. 3988. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow above-the-line deductions for charitable 
     contributions for individuals not itemizing deductions; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania:
       H. Res. 558. A resolution recognizing October 7th as 
     National Trigeminal Neuralgia Awareness Day; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Rush, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Bost, 
             and Mr. Lipinski):
       H. Res. 559. A resolution recognizing Navy Pier as a public 
     community resource and treasured Chicago landmark; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Mr. 
             LoBiondo, Mr. Wittman,

[[Page H7888]]

             Mr. Kind, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Heck, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. McCollum, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Walz, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Vela, Mr. Panetta, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Costa, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Connolly, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Polis, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. McGovern, Mr. Sablan, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Kildee, 
             Mr. Huffman, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H. Res. 560. A resolution encouraging observance of 
     National Wildlife Refuge Week with appropriate events and 
     activities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



