

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7243-H7245]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY DATA FRAMEWORK ACT OF 2017

  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 2454) to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a 
data framework to provide access for appropriate personnel to law 
enforcement and other information of the Department, and for other 
purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2454

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland 
     Security Data Framework Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY DATA FRAMEWORK.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
     develop a data framework to integrate existing Department of 
     Homeland Security datasets and systems, as appropriate, for 
     access by authorized personnel in a manner consistent with 
     relevant legal authorities and privacy, civil rights, and 
     civil liberties policies and protections. In developing such 
     framework, the Secretary shall ensure, in accordance with all 
     applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, the 
     following information is included:
       (1) All information acquired, held, or obtained by an 
     office or component of the Department that falls within the 
     scope of the information sharing environment, including 
     homeland security information, terrorism information, weapons 
     of mass destruction information, and national intelligence.
       (2) Any information or intelligence relevant to priority 
     mission needs and capability requirements of the homeland 
     security enterprise, as determined appropriate by the 
     Secretary.
       (b) Data Framework Access.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
     ensure that the data framework required under this section is 
     accessible to employees of the Department of Homeland 
     Security who the Secretary determines--
       (A) have an appropriate security clearance;
       (B) are assigned to perform a function that requires access 
     to information in such framework; and
       (C) are trained in applicable standards for safeguarding 
     and using such information.
       (2) Guidance.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall--
       (A) issue guidance for Department of Homeland Security 
     employees authorized to access and contribute to the data 
     framework pursuant to paragraph (1); and
       (B) ensure that such guidance enforces a duty to share 
     between offices and components of the Department when 
     accessing or contributing to such framework for mission 
     needs.
       (3) Efficiency.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
     promulgate data standards and instruct components of the 
     Department of Homeland Security to make available information 
     through the data framework under this section in a machine-
     readable format, to the greatest extent practicable.
       (c) Exclusion of Information.--The Secretary of Homeland 
     Security may exclude from the data framework information that 
     the Secretary determines access to or the confirmation of the 
     existence of could--
       (1) jeopardize the protection of sources, methods, or 
     activities;
       (2) compromise a criminal or national security 
     investigation;
       (3) be inconsistent with the other Federal laws or 
     regulations; or
       (4) be duplicative or not serve an operational purpose if 
     included in such framework.
       (d) Safeguards.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
     incorporate into the data framework systems capabilities for 
     auditing and ensuring the security of information included in 
     such framework. Such capabilities shall include the 
     following:
       (1) Mechanisms for identifying insider threats.
       (2) Mechanisms for identifying security risks.
       (3) Safeguards for privacy, civil rights, and civil 
     liberties.
       (e) Deadline for Implementation.--Not later than two years 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security shall ensure the data framework required 
     under this section has the ability to include appropriate 
     information in existence within the Department of Homeland 
     Security to meet its critical mission operations.
       (f) Notice to Congress.--
       (1) Operational notification.--Not later than 60 days after 
     the date on which the data framework required under this 
     section is fully operational, the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security shall provide notice to the appropriate 
     congressional committees of such.
       (2) Regular status.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees regular updates on the 
     status of the data framework required under this section, 
     including, when applicable, the use of such data framework to 
     support classified operations.
       (g) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the meaning 
     given the term ``appropriate congressional committee'' in 
     section 2(2) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
     101(2)).
       (2) National intelligence.--The term ``national 
     intelligence'' has the meaning given such term in section 
     3(5) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3003(5)).

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Hurd) and the gentlewoman from New York (Miss Rice) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.

                              {time}  1300


                             General Leave

  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Sixteen years after the 9/11 attacks by al-Qaida terrorists on our 
homeland,

[[Page H7244]]

most Americans would be dismayed that information-sharing stovepipes 
still exist.
  While information sharing since that fateful day has improved 
dramatically, we still have work to do at the Department of Homeland 
Security. When the DHS was created, 22 component agencies were brought 
together with different missions, databases, and legal authorities.
  The DHS personnel have to deal with a costly, cumbersome process to 
search and vet information against a large number of databases, using 
different logins, passwords, and legal restrictions.
  The DHS data framework was designed to bring together these vital DHS 
datasets, including travel and cargo information, investigative data, 
and critical infrastructure data, among others.
  The other important element of the framework is the replication of 
the platform on a classified network to allow classified analysis and 
vetting of law enforcement data against intelligence information.
  Given the importance of the Data Framework Initiative, the need to 
weigh security versus civil liberties, as well as the Federal 
Government's history of delays and cost overruns on IT projects, it is 
critical that this program receive congressional oversight.
  This bill provides the first authorization for the data framework, 
mandates privacy and security safeguards, as well as training for 
Department personnel with access to the system.
  In addition to the personnel training and privacy safeguards, this 
bill also requires the Secretary to ensure information in the framework 
is both protected and audible.
  I was pleased that the Committee on Homeland Security included this 
bill in the DHS authorization bill, which passed the floor in July, and 
I urge my colleagues to again support this measure.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Miss RICE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2454, the Department of 
Homeland Security Data Framework Act of 2017.
  Mr. Speaker, the Department of Homeland Security Data Framework Act 
directs the DHS to consolidate existing intelligence databases and 
systems at the Department in order to establish a data framework.
  Specifically, H.R. 2454 requires the DHS to ensure that the data 
framework is accessible to DHS employees who the Secretary determines 
have an appropriate security clearance, have responsibilities that 
require access to framework information, and are trained in applicable 
standards for safeguarding and using such information.
  By strengthening the DHS data framework, authorized personnel from 
each of the components and offices at the Department will have easier 
access to the data that they need in a timely manner.
  Additionally, the DHS Security Data Framework Act of 2017 allows the 
DHS Secretary to incorporate into the data framework systems 
capabilities for auditing and ensuring the security of information 
within the framework. Such capabilities include mechanisms for 
identifying insider threats and security risks, and safeguards for 
privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties.
  The anniversary of 9/11 is a time for reflection and remembrance, and 
also a time to enhance our defenses. We cannot allow weak data 
infrastructure to leave the homeland vulnerable to attacks, and I thank 
my good friend and colleague from Texas, Mr. Hurd, for introducing this 
commonsense legislation, and I urge my House colleagues to support this 
bipartisan legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, in closing, this is an important bill that has strong 
support on both sides of the aisle. It maintains effective security 
measures while consolidating systems, creating a more feasible way for 
the men and women at the DHS to access the data that they need to 
fulfill their critical mission.
  I thank Mr. Hurd for his diligence on this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 2454, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from New York (Miss 
Rice), for her work on these initiatives. And I thank Chairman McCaul 
and the ranking member for the bipartisan way in which we focus on 
these important issues of homeland security.
  Mr. Speaker, again, I want to urge my colleagues to support H.R. 
2454, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2454--
Department of Homeland Security Data Framework Act of 2017, which is 
the first authorization bill for the Department of Homeland Security 
since its creation.
  I thank Chairman McCaul and Ranking Member Thompson for working 
diligently to bring this suspension bill before the House of 
Representatives.
  H.R. 2454 directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to:
  develop a data framework to integrate existing DHS datasets and 
systems for access by authorized personnel in a manner consistent with 
relevant legal authorities and privacy, civil rights, and civil 
liberties policies and protections;
  ensure that all information of a DHS office or component that falls 
within the scope of the information sharing environment, and any 
information or intelligence relevant to priority mission needs and 
capability requirements of the homeland security enterprise, is 
included; and
  ensure that the framework is accessible to DHS employees who have an 
appropriate security clearance, who are assigned to perform a function 
that requires access, and who are trained in applicable standards for 
safeguarding and using such information.
  The bill excludes information that could:
  jeopardize the protection of sources, methods, or activities;
  compromise a criminal or national security investigation;
  be inconsistent with the other federal laws or regulations; or
  be duplicative or not serve an operational purpose.
  DHS shall incorporate into such framework systems capabilities for 
auditing and ensuring the security of information.
  Few can image how complex the federal government response to a 
Hurricane can be.
  For example the need for information sharing is crucial to effect 
disaster response prior to, during and after Hurricanes Harvey and 
Irma.
  U.S. cooperation with the European Commission, facilitated by the 
Department of State, allowed for rapid activation of the Copernicus 
Emergency Management Service (EMS) over the Texas and Louisiana coasts 
affected by Category-4 Hurricane Harvey, the largest recorded 
rainstorms ever to hit the contiguous United States.
  This service has provided local, state, and federal disaster managers 
with free, real-time, all-weather radar satellite images of the 
affected areas; we are grateful to our European partners, including the 
European Space Agency and the European Organization for the 
Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites, for their assistance during 
this challenging time.
  Since August 25, Europe's Copernicus EMS, at no cost to the United 
States, has generated up-to-date, satellite-based maps of the flood 
extent.
  In combination with U.S. satellite data, these maps are critical 
tools for relief operations by U.S. federal, state, and local disaster 
responders.
  First responders were in critical need of accurate information on 
persons who were trapped by Hurricane Harvey flood waters.
  The statistics are staggering.
  21 trillion gallons of rainfall fell in Texas and Louisiana in the 
first five days of the storm.
  The estimated maximum sustained winds exceeded 130 miles per hour as 
the hurricane made landfall near Rockport, Texas on August 25.
  A record 4,323 days, which is nearly 12 years, elapsed since a major 
hurricane (Category 3 or above) made landfall in the United States 
prior to Hurricane Harvey; the last Category 3 hurricane to hit the 
United States was Hurricane Wilma in 2005, the same year Hurricane 
Katrina destroyed much of New Orleans.
  The city of Cedar Bayou received 51.88 inches of rainfall, breaking 
the record for rainfall from a single storm in the continental United 
States; my city of Houston received more than 50 inches of rainfall.
  More than 13,000 people have been rescued in the Houston area and 
more than 30,000 persons are expected to be forced out of their homes 
due to the storm.
  More than 8,800 federal personnel were staff deployed to help respond 
to Hurricane Harvey, supplying approximately 2.9 million meals, 2.8 
million liters of water, 37,000 tarps, and 130 generators.
  In the first three days of the storm, more than 49,000 homes had 
suffered flood damage and more than 1,000 homes were completely 
destroyed in the storm.
  And today, two weeks later, thousands of Texans are still without 
permanent and stable housing situations.

[[Page H7245]]

  That is why the additional $7.4 billion in CDBG funding provided in 
the legislation is desperately needed.
  Mr. Speaker, valiant emergency responders in my state worked to 
exhaustion, with an invaluable assist from citizen volunteers, to 
rescue their neighbors and save lives.
  That is who Texans are and this is what we do.
  We do not yet know the full cost in human lives exacted by Hurricane 
Harvey.
  But what we do know is that the costs of recovery and reconstruction 
will far exceed any natural disaster in memory; best estimates place 
the cost in the range of $150-$200 billion.
  Mr. Speaker, there is much more work to be done in my city of 
Houston, and across the areas affected by the terrible, awesome storm 
that will be forever known simply as Hurricane Harvey.
  This same resource was put into use for Hurricane Irma to support 
response to that major storm.
  This sharing of important satellite data is provided by the United 
States-European Commission Cooperation Arrangement on Earth Observation 
Data Related to the Copernicus Program.
  The Department of State's Bureau of Oceans and International 
Environmental and Scientific Affairs negotiated the data sharing 
agreement, which has been in effect since October 2015.
  The arrangement reflects a shared U.S.-E.U. vision to pursue full, 
free, and open data policies for government Earth observation 
satellites, fostering greater scientific discovery and encouraging 
innovation in applications and value-added services for the benefit of 
society at large.
  I offer the thanks and appreciation for our nation--its people--
especially the residents along the Gulf Coast including the residents 
of the 18th Congressional District in Houston and the surrounding 
communities for the support from our Allies in our nation's time of 
need.
  The Suspension before the House will facilitate data sharing among 
law enforcement agencies in support the mission of the Department of 
Homeland Security to develop and maintain a unity of effort approach to 
security our nation from terrorist threats.
  I ask my colleagues to support H.R. 2454.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Rogers of Kentucky). The question is on 
the motion offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Hurd) that the 
House suspend the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2454, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



