

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6875-S6877]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient 
rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to 
protect victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and 
dating violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts 
of violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.

[[Page S6876]]

Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care 
services for veterans.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 353

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 353, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to extend the rural add-on payment in 
the Medicare home health benefit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to 
home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare 
program.


                                 S. 503

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 503, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Agriculture to make publicly available certain 
regulatory records relating to the administration of the Animal Welfare 
Act and the Horse Protection Act, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to provide for the use of an alternative depreciation system for 
taxpayers violating rules under the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse 
Protection Act, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 629

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 629, a bill to 
amend the Federal Food, Drugs, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety 
and effectiveness of medically important antimicrobials approved for 
use in the prevention, control, and treatment of animal diseases, in 
order to minimize the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to 
revise section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 674

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 674, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to clarify the retirement income account 
rules relating to church controlled organizations.


                                 S. 700

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 700, a bill to improve 
the reproductive assistance provided by the Department of Defense and 
the Department of Veterans Affairs to severely wounded, ill, or injured 
members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their spouses or partners, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester), the Senator from 
New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), 
the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the 
Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as cosponsors of S. 793, a 
bill to prohibit sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the extension of the 
Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased payments 
under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 910, a bill 
to prohibit discrimination against individuals with disabilities who 
need long-term services and supports, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 978

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 978, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of Education to establish an award program 
recognizing excellence exhibited by public school system employees 
providing services to students in prekindergarten through higher 
education.


                                S. 1022

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1022, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to facilitate assignment of military trauma 
care providers to civilian trauma centers in order to maintain military 
trauma readiness and to support such centers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1064, a bill to amend the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act to prohibit the 
stigmatization of children who are unable to pay for meals.


                                S. 1130

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1130, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to create a sustainable future for 
rural healthcare.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable 
tax provisions.


                                S. 1580

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1580, a bill to enhance the 
transparency, improve the coordination, and intensify the impact of 
assistance to support access to primary and secondary education for 
displaced children and persons, including women and girls, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1674

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1674, a bill to provide 
grants for the repair, renovation, and construction of public 
elementary schools and secondary schools, to establish a school 
infrastructure bond program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1690

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1690, a bill 
to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide greater support to 
students with dependents, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1738, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for a home infusion therapy services 
temporary transitional payment under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1746

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Alabama (Mr. 
Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1746, a bill to require the 
Congressional Budget Office to make publicly available the fiscal and 
mathematical models, data, and other details of computations used in 
cost analysis and scoring.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill to provide 
for wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.

[[Page S6877]]

  



                                S. 1859

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1859, a bill to extend the 
moratorium on the annual fee on health insurance providers.


                                S. 1953

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1953, a bill to amend the 
Tribal Law and Order Act of 2010 and the Indian Law Enforcement Reform 
Act to provide for advancements in public safety services to Indian 
communities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1981

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1981, a bill to amend the 
Natural Gas Act to expedite approval of exports of small volumes of 
natural gas, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2019

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2019, a bill to amend 
title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and other statutes to clarify 
appropriate liability standards for Federal antidiscrimination claims.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a resolution 
condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's Rohingya 
population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active role in 
ending this humanitarian tragedy.

                          ____________________



