

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6255]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 RECOGNIZING NORTHERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY'S SALMON P. CHASE COLLEGE OF 
                                  LAW

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to celebrate a special 
anniversary in my home State. The Salmon P. Chase College of Law at 
Northern Kentucky University, NKU, is marking its 125th year of 
educating students and helping them follow their dreams in the legal 
field.
  Chase's story is one of transformation and innovation, and through it 
all, the school has produced graduates prepared to excel in the legal 
field. Originally founded in Ohio, Chase was only the third law school 
in the Nation to offer night programs. Since then, Chase has crossed 
the Ohio River into Kentucky, joined with NKU, and continued to find 
the best ways to grow as a respected institution.
  Named after Salmon P. Chase, the sixth Chief Justice of the U.S. 
Supreme Court, the college is known as the Lawyer's School for its 
commitment to helping students be practice-ready upon graduation. Today 
Chase is a proud part of Kentucky's legal community. With graduates in 
a wide range of careers, including serving as Federal judges and as 
Members of Congress, Chase's impact has grown considerably since its 
founding. It is also the proud home to a nationally recognized moot 
court team and has led the Commonwealth in the bar exam passage rate in 
recent years.
  These successes wouldn't be possible without the dedicated work of 
Chase's faculty, staff, and administration. I would like to extend my 
sincere congratulations to Jeffrey Standen, who serves as dean and 
professor at Chase. Under his leadership, Chase has continued its 
growth, innovation, and achievement. The school's distinguished faculty 
come from some of the highest levels of the bench and bar with the 
experiences and passion to prepare students for success in their 
careers. The school's alumni, more than 5,000 and counting, are using 
their skills in more than 47 States, in Washington DC, and around the 
globe.
  I would also like to thank NKU's interim president Gerard St. Amand, 
a current professor and former dean of Chase himself, for his 
commitment to the university and his willingness to help guide the 
community.
  Each time I have had the opportunity to engage with Chase students, I 
have noted their intellectual curiosity and their passion for the law.
  The Chase College of Law has grown so much in the last 125 years, and 
it has become an integral part of Kentucky's legal community. I am 
proud to join with the Chase students, faculty, staff, administration, 
and alumni to commemorate this occasion. I urge my colleagues to help 
me celebrate Chase's quasquicentennial anniversary, and I look forward 
to many more years of accomplishments.

                          ____________________



