

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9522]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      HONORING TROOPER DAMON ALLEN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Flores) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Texas Department of 
Public Safety Trooper Damon Allen of Mexia, Texas, who passed away on 
November 23, 2017.
  Damon Allen was born in Morgantown, Kentucky, on October 4, 1976. His 
family moved to Mexia in 1984, where he lived until his passing.
  In 1995, Damon graduated from Mexia High School, where he was a 
member of the varsity football team. Damon went on to marry his high 
school sweetheart, Kasey Pickett. Happily married for nearly 24 years, 
Kasey and Damon had three daughters and a son: Chelsea, Kaitlyn, 
Madison, and Cameron. Damon was also the proud grandfather to his 
grandson, Quest.
  After graduating from Mexia High School, Damon worked for the Mexia 
State School, a rehabilitation school for students with learning 
impairments. He then worked for the Texas Department of Criminal 
Justice for 5 years before pursuing his passion to become a Texas DPS 
State Trooper.
  Damon was an exemplary DPS Trooper for 15 years and was known to 
those in his unit as a model gentleman. He was fair and polite to all 
he came in contact with, and he treated all around him as if they were 
his life-long friends. His calling to serve in law enforcement came 
from a desire to be the man who people turn to in their time of need. 
Tragically, he was murdered by a criminal while serving the people of 
Texas on Thanksgiving Day.
  In his free time, Damon enjoyed hunting, fishing, and off-road 
driving in his Jeep, especially over the dunes at the beach. He had a 
strong faith in God, attending both the Cowboy Church in Freestone and 
the First Assembly of God Church in Mexia.
  Mr. Speaker, Damon Allen worked tirelessly to serve our central Texas 
communities. He is loved, and he has certainly left an enduring 
impression on the people of Mexia. He will be forever remembered as a 
great State trooper, a public servant, a community member, a husband, a 
father, a grandfather, and a friend.
  My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest and heartfelt condolences to 
the Allen family. We also lift up the family and friends of Damon Allen 
in our prayers. I have requested that the United States flag be flown 
over the Capitol to honor the life and legacy of DPS Trooper Damon 
Allen.
  As I close today, I urge all Americans to continue praying for our 
country during these difficult times, for our military men and women 
who protect us from external threats, and for our first responders who 
protect us here at home.

                          ____________________



