

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7848-S7849]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 260, a bill to repeal 
the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
providing for the Independent Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Cochran, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to require 
Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports in 
electronic form.


                                 S. 373

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 373, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress a report on hearing 
loss, tinnitus, and noise pollution due to small arms fire.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to 
the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the 
Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 447

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 447, a bill to require 
reporting on acts of certain foreign countries on Holocaust era assets 
and related issues.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage 
of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 498

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 498, a bill to amend title 10, United States Code, 
to require the Secretary of Defense to use only human-based methods for 
training members of the Armed Forces in the treatment of severe combat 
injuries, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 954

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 954, a bill to prevent 
harassment at institutions of higher education, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 974

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 974, a bill to promote competition 
in the market for drugs and biological products by facilitating the 
timely entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar versions of those 
drugs and biological products.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1498

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1498, a bill to establish 
in the Smithsonian Institution a comprehensive American women's history 
museum, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Tester) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1539, a bill to protect victims of stalking 
from gun violence.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home infusion 
therapy services temporary transitional payment under the Medicare 
program.


                                S. 1795

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1795, a bill 
to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to improve the financial aid 
process for homeless children and youths and foster care children and 
youth.


                                S. 1816

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1816, a bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to enhance fraud 
alert procedures and provide free access to credit freezes, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1845

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1845, a bill to amend the Lead-
Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act to provide for additional 
procedures for families with children under the age of 6, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2005

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) and the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2005, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to extend the publicly traded partnership ownership structure to 
energy power generation projects and transportation fuels, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2006

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2006, a bill to 
require breast density reporting to physicians and patients by 
facilities that perform mammograms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2101

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2101, a bill to award a Congressional 
Gold Medal, collectively, to the crew of the USS Indianapolis, in

[[Page S7849]]

recognition of their perseverance, bravery, and service to the United 
States.


                                S. 2109

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2109, a bill to 
count revenues from military and veteran education programs toward the 
limit on Federal revenues that certain proprietary institutions of 
higher education are allowed to receive for purposes of section 487 of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2127

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2127, a bill 
to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the United States 
merchant mariners of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
and vital service during World War II.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Corker) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current law regarding the 
National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2141

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2141, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to reform procedures for 
determinations on disposition of charges and the convening of courts-
martial for certain offenses under the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2152, a bill to amend title 18, United States 
Code, to provide for assistance for victims of child pornography, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2163

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2163, a bill to expand 
school choice in the District of Columbia.


                                S. 2164

  At the request of Mr. King, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2164, a bill to amend the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 respecting the scoring of preventive health savings.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 139, a resolution condemning the 
Government of Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its Baha'i minority 
and its continued violation of the International Covenants on Human 
Rights.


                              S. RES. 150

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 150, a resolution 
recognizing threats to freedom of the press and expression around the 
world and reaffirming freedom of the press as a priority in efforts of 
the United States Government to promote democracy and good governance.

                          ____________________



