

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8323]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HELIUM EXTRACTION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 3279) to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to provide that extraction 
of helium from gas produced under a Federal mineral lease shall 
maintain the lease as if the helium were oil and gas.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3279

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Helium Extraction Act of 
     2017''.

     SEC. 2. MAINTENANCE OF FEDERAL MINERAL LEASES BASED ON 
                   EXTRACTION OF HELIUM.

       The first section of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
     181) is amended in the fifth paragraph by inserting after 
     ``purchaser thereof'' the following: ``, and that extraction 
     of helium from gas produced from such lands shall maintain 
     the lease as if the extracted helium were oil and gas''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Cook) and the gentlewoman from California (Mrs. Torres) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3279, the Helium 
Extraction Act of 2017. This straightforward piece of legislation will 
incentivize helium production on Federal lands, help ensure the future 
of America's helium supply, and provide a fair return to the taxpayer.
  Under existing law, the Mineral Leasing Act only permits helium 
extraction as a by-product of an existing oil or natural gas lease. As 
a result, if oil and gas production on a Federal site is not 
economically viable, the lease will expire, regardless of the revenue 
brought in by helium sales. The Helium Extraction Act of 2017 would 
correct this error and authorize helium production activities where 
economically viable.
  Helium is used for much more than balloons. It is a rare and unique 
element which has become an indispensable part of our medical, space, 
and defense industries, such as its use in MRI machines, 
semiconductors, and air-to-air missile guidance systems.
  Unfortunately, the future of our domestic helium supply is uncertain. 
The Helium Stewardship Act of 2013, which details a commonsense 
privatization process of the Federal helium reserve, also specifies 
that all helium in the Federal reserve must be auctioned off by 
September 30, 2021, and the facility closed.
  This crucial source of helium has been relied upon for almost half a 
century, but in a few short years, it will no longer be available. Our 
country needs another way to access this critical natural resource; 
otherwise, we will be relying on hostile interests such as Qatar, 
Algeria, and Russia. Each of these countries presents security and 
geopolitical challenges made even more apparent by recent unrest among 
Qatar and its regional neighbors.
  Unless something changes, foreign facilities are predicted to become 
our chief source of helium by the end of the decade. This is why H.R. 
3279 is such a necessary piece of legislation.
  By authorizing the Bureau of Land Management to lease land for this 
valuable nonrenewable resource, this legislation will raise $9 million 
for the American taxpayer and help secure our supply of helium for 
years to come.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this measure, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mrs. TORRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  H.R. 3279 would correct a problem in our Federal oil and gas leasing 
laws that makes it more difficult for companies to commercially produce 
helium from Federal lands. Helium is a critical element for high-tech 
research and modern medicine, and because of its unique properties, 
there are simply no substitutes.
  On the Natural Resources Committee, we have spent many years 
overseeing the Federal Helium Program, culminating in the bipartisan 
Helium Stewardship Act signed into law 4 years ago.
  While the Helium Stewardship Act improved the management and sale of 
Federal helium, it didn't do much to promote the development of new 
sources of helium, which are in high demand. By allowing companies to 
hold onto Federal oil and gas leases if they are producing commercial 
quantities of helium and only helium, then the problem that kept 
potentially valuable helium resources under lock and key is resolved. 
This is only one small step, but it is a very useful one.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the sponsor of this legislation for introducing 
it.
  I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3279, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Cook) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 3279.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



