

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6976-S6982]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session and resume consideration of the Eid 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read the nomination of Allison H. Eid, of 
Colorado, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from West Virginia.


                               Tax Reform

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I rise to give my fifth in a series of 
speeches addressing what I think will be a monumental achievement of 
this Senate and House when we pass our tax reform bill.
  I have spoken previously about how I believe tax reform will be good 
in a lot of different ways. First of all, I talked about how this tax 
reform bill will spur economic growth in our country. Second, I talked 
about how it would grow jobs in small businesses. Third, I talked about 
the benefits working-class families will have through policies such as 
the child tax credit.
  So today I rise to talk about the importance of tax simplification. 
According to a publisher who analyzed the issue, since 1913, the 
Federal Tax Code is 187 times longer than it was a century ago. On top 
of the Tax Code itself that spans thousands of pages, there are 
additional IRS regulations that are complicated, and you need somebody 
not just to figure them out for you and interpret them for you but to 
figure out how that translates to your own tax return. Of course, 
taxpayers have to comply with all of these.
  Beyond the code and the regulations, there are countless IRS 
procedures, technical memorandums, and more, and all of this adds to 
the length and complexity of our tax system. You can see it when you 
turn toward the April 15 date, the stress level in this country really 
rises, and a lot of it has to do with the complications of our tax 
system.
  The point is this, when it comes to figuring out your taxes, it is 
just far too complex. That is why businesses and individuals spend 6 
billion hours a year complying with the Tax Code. That is more than 18 
hours for every man, woman, and child in this country. That is 
equivalent to 3 million people working full time--3 million people 
working full time to comply with the Tax Code and fill out your tax 
forms or, another way of looking at it, that is $195 billion in lost 
productivity.
  Again, our Tax Code is just too complicated, and that is also what 
tax reform is about, simplifying and making it easier for Americans to 
comply.
  According to the Brookings Institution, ``The notion that taxes 
should be simpler is one of the very few propositions in tax policy 
that generates almost universal agreement.''

[[Page S6977]]

  Despite years of bipartisan talks, we are now on the verge of major 
tax reform for the first time in 30 years. Making our Tax Code simpler 
will benefit every single working family in this country. By roughly 
doubling the standard deduction, filing your taxes will be easier and 
more understandable. The higher standard deduction will let more 
middle-class Americans benefit from not just lower taxes but also 
without the hassle of itemizing your tax return. Lower rates and fewer 
deductions will help all Americans spend less time and energy and worry 
on tax compliance.
  Our goal is for the overwhelming number of Americans to be able to 
submit their tax forms on a single sheet of paper without all those 
extra forms, and for many families in West Virginia and around the 
country who already use the standard deduction, increasing it will 
reduce their taxes. Now, 83 percent of West Virginians last year--or 
maybe it was the year before, 2015, 2016--83 percent filed a simple 
form.
  Simplicity in our Tax Code and relief for middle-class families, 
those are the reasons I offered a straightforward amendment to the 
Senate's budget resolution. My amendment said Congress should focus on 
eliminating deductions that primarily benefit wealthier individuals in 
favor of tax policy that benefits the middle class. Let me say that 
again. Congress should focus on eliminating deductions that primarily 
benefit wealthier individuals in favor of tax policy that benefits the 
middle class. That means a tax code that is simpler with fewer 
deductions and lower rates.
  It will not just be individuals and families who benefit from a less 
complicated tax code. Tax simplification will help our small businesses 
start, grow, and succeed. Ninety-five percent of the businesses in my 
State of West Virginia are small businesses, and they employ over half 
of West Virginia's private sector workforce. So in addition to their 
high marginal tax rate, the complexity and compliance cost of their 
taxes impedes their economic growth, impedes their ability to grow 
their job, raise their wages, spur growth. A CNBC survey found that 22 
percent of small business owners aren't sure what their effective tax 
rate really is. If Congress can simplify the code just to cut 
compliance costs in half, that would free up significant resources that 
could be used to grow the economy. Given that 50 percent of U.S. job 
growth has occurred in just 2 percent of our country's counties, we 
need that growth. Think about that. Over the last several years, 50 
percent of the U.S. job growth has only occurred in 2 percent of our 
country's counties. We need the rest of the country to be able to enjoy 
that growth. To do that, we need to help the small businesses that are 
the major economic drivers in our economy.
  Simplifying the Tax Code will benefit so many across this country 
through GDP growth and higher wages. I look forward to working with my 
colleagues to make tax reform and tax simplification a reality.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Strange). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Democratic leader is recognized.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, later this morning, after months of 
hemming, hawing, and delaying, House Republicans will finally release 
some legislative details about their tax plan. It may not even include 
all the details. The on again, off again nature of these deliberations 
should concern every Member of both Chambers. That is not how you 
construct sound policy, especially with something as complicated and 
impactful as the Tax Code. Each decision has enormous ramifications. 
Last-minute changes and sloppy drafting could change the fate of entire 
industries. Rushing it through in a hasty manner could have disastrous 
consequences.
  We know why my colleagues are doing this. They don't want the public 
to know what is in this bill--increases on the middle class, breaks for 
the wealthy, big corporations getting a huge tax break, with no 
guarantee and very little likelihood that they will use the money to 
create jobs. That is why they don't want it to be public. It is not 
popular. On polls, it says: Do you support tax reform? They say yes. Do 
you support cutting the taxes on big corporations? They say, 
overwhelming, no. Do you support increasing taxes on the middle class? 
Overwhelming, they say no. Do you support decreasing taxes on the 
wealthy? They say, overwhelming, no. Those are the three tenets of this 
bill.
  I hope my Republican colleagues here in the Senate are watching what 
is going on in the House--the problems they are having, the secrecy 
they need--and realize how difficult and dangerous it is to rewrite the 
Tax Code by the seat of your pants. Looking at the Tax Code and real 
tax receipts after all the loopholes, the wealthy in our country pay 
far less in Federal taxes than they did historically while the middle 
class pays more. Corporate profits are at a record high, while average 
wages have been stagnant. Those statistics articulate a real problem 
with the basic fairness of our Tax Code that tax reform could underline 
and could fix. This plan doesn't.
  Instead, what we are seeing today is a plan that exacerbates the 
unfairness and inequality in our Tax Code. If the details of the 
Republican tax plan are anything like we have seen in the press--to 
repeal the estate tax, to create a huge new loophole for wealthy 
individuals in the form of a reduction in the pass-through rate, and 
lowering the big rates on corporations and the wealthy--this sure 
doesn't fit the bill of helping the middle class.
  Meanwhile, to pay for all the tax giveaways in their bill, the 
Republicans are likely to make it worse for the middle class--not just 
not help them but hurt them. It will slash State and local 
deductibility, which is a bedrock middle-class and upper middle class 
deduction, that would hurt so many middle-class taxpayers. Nearly one-
third of all taxpayers claim it from all over the country, the vast 
majority of whom make under $200,000 a year.
  Today, Republicans will crow about reaching a compromise on State and 
local, whereby they don't eliminate the deduction; they just reduce its 
value by about 70 percent. That means the bulk of the deduction will go 
away for so many middle class Americans. I would remind my Republican 
colleagues over in the House, particularly those from States like New 
York, New Jersey, California, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Virginia, and 
Colorado, that this compromise will not solve your problem. You will 
still pay the price with the voters.
  I have been in politics a long time. I know how this will affect 
people--this compromise. They will not look and say: Oh, it could have 
been worse. Maybe we would have lost the entire deduction. They will 
say: This year, I have the whole deduction, and next year, I have less 
than half of it. They will take it out on our Republican colleagues who 
vote for it, particularly from those States, and they are throughout 
the country--in well-to-do and upper middle class and middle-class 
suburban districts.
  So anyone who thinks this compromise is going to help them doesn't 
understand how politics works. It is not what it could have been. It is 
what it is and what it will be. Now it is a complete deduction. What it 
will be is that you will lose 70 percent of that deduction. No one is 
going to breathe a sigh of relief and say: I could have lost 100 
percent.
  Taxpayers will see that the Republicans have capped the amount of 
mortgage interest they can deduct from purchasing a new home now. That 
is the latest. Again, that hits right at the middle class. The mortgage 
deduction doesn't really affect the wealthiest. They have all their 
money in unearned income and capital gains, and all of that is what 
affects them the most. But the mortgage deduction is one of the hearts 
of the middle class. To play with it--to reduce it, to cap it, so they 
can do tax giveaways for the very rich--is not going to fly, I don't 
think--not in America, not in the America most of us know.
  Taxpayers in the big cities and small ones, in the exurbs and 
suburbs, who

[[Page S6978]]

commute to work, will also notice if they never receive the critical 
transit benefits they receive now. Thousands of dollars a year that 
help pay when you transit to work will be gone. Why? To help the 
wealthy.
  While some working Americans and middle-class taxpayers watch their 
taxes go up, they will read about how Republicans repealed the estate 
tax, which benefits only 5,500 families whose estates are worth over $5 
million. They will learn how, instead of keeping the estate tax or 
closing the egregious carried-interest loopholes, the Republicans 
reached into their pockets--the middle-class pockets--to pay for a big 
corporate tax break that has no guarantee and very little likelihood of 
producing jobs. They will learn that, while the reduction to the 
corporate tax rate is permanent, the increase in the child tax credit 
is temporary.
  Big, wealthy corporations count far more than kids in this bill. 
Corporations get permanent benefits, and families with kids get 
temporary and meager ones.
  The Tax Code is a reflection of fairness in our society. Do we want 
to be in a country where everyone pays their fair share, including big 
corporations and the very wealthy? I think so. I think most Americans 
agree with that. Yet right now, our Tax Code is slanted in favor of the 
rich and the powerful, and the Republican plan makes it only worse.
  The Republican tax plan would put two thumbs down on a scale already 
tipped toward the wealthy and powerful. It wouldn't create jobs. It 
wouldn't raise wages. The Tax Policy Center, as we know, estimated that 
80 percent of the benefits of the Republican plan go to the top 1 
percent--this new bill doesn't change that a bit--while nearly one-
third of middle-class Americans would see a tax increase; 80 percent of 
the benefits to the top of our country, 20 percent of the benefits to 
the other 99 percent. That is not a middle-class tax bill, as President 
Trump said it would be.
  Surely, we can do better. If our colleagues--whether it be in the 
House or Senate, our Republican colleagues who are trying to go it 
alone--can't pass this bill, we would welcome them. We would welcome an 
opportunity to sit down together and come up with a bill that really 
helps the middle class.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, today is an important day on our promise 
to deliver tax relief for America's working families and our 
businesses, to create more jobs and grow our economy faster. The House 
Ways and Means Committee is about to unveil their first draft of a tax 
cut bill. That is a good step forward after we both passed our budgets 
a couple of weeks ago.
  As we move forward through this process, it is important that we all 
recognize that tax cuts are a way to let the American people and our 
businesses keep more of their money, not the government's money but 
their money. We also have to be mindful of the impact it has on our 
staggering national debt of over $20 trillion and rising deficits. We 
can expect the economy to grow at a much healthier rate than it has in 
recent years if we pass a good tax bill. But we also need to look for 
other ways to offset the costs of those tax cuts to a degree.
  There have been a lot of discussions during the year about what I 
would consider unwise and painful changes to our tax law. Eliminating 
deductions, credits, exclusions, exemptions--they are popular and 
widespread. Some people call that the spinach, in addition to the ice 
cream of tax cuts.
  However, I have what I would call maybe a creative idea, a novel 
idea--one that I think is gaining momentum in the Senate and in the 
House. We can repeal the individual mandate of ObamaCare and save $300 
to $400 billion for the Federal Government and therefore deliver more 
tax relief to our families and our workers and our businesses. That is 
not my math. That is the math of the Congressional Budget Office. They 
have said repeatedly that eliminating the individual mandate of 
ObamaCare would save $300 to $400 billion. That is a lot of tax cuts.
  The individual mandate has also been the most unpopular part of 
ObamaCare. More than two-thirds of Americans want to see it repealed. 
The House has voted repeatedly to repeal it. The Senate has voted to 
repeal it. Even some Democrats have said that they want to repeal the 
individual mandate as well. It is the first time in our country's 
history, after all, that the Federal Government has said: You must buy 
the product of a private company for the mere privilege of being an 
American citizen.
  We also know that the individual mandate simply has not worked. It 
was designed to hold down premiums on the ObamaCare exchanges. That has 
not been the case. Despite the individual mandate being in place now 
for 4 years, we continue to see premiums spiral out of control. So I 
think it is a pretty reasonable proposal to repeal the most hated part 
of ObamaCare to help pay for tax cuts the American people want rather 
than trying to eliminate popular and widely used deductions, credits, 
exemptions, and exclusions.
  Moreover, it allows us to make more of the tax cut bill permanent 
because the $300 to $400 billion savings over a 10-year period is just 
a 10-year period, but it will continue to save money after those 10 
years. With the crazy way we do our budgeting around here, that allows 
us to make more of those tax cuts permanent so that our families and 
our businesses can have greater predictability to save and invest and 
grow our economy.
  It is also a kind of tax cut for working-class Americans in its own 
right. According to IRS data, more than five out of six households that 
paid the mandate fine last year made less than the median income. They 
were in the bottom half of income earners.
  So what are we doing? We are imposing a fine on the working class and 
working poor because they can't afford the insurance that ObamaCare 
made unaffordable in the first place. That is crazy.
  We can do this in a way that makes it easier to pass a tax bill. I 
know some of my colleagues around here, especially some of my 
Republican colleagues, say: Oh, no. We can't go back to healthcare. It 
is going to make the tax bill a little harder to pass. That is 
nonsense. It makes the tax bill easier to pass--easier to pass because 
it helps make the fiscal picture balance, and it helps deliver more tax 
cuts to our families and our businesses back home.
  Some of my Democratic colleagues, drawing on that same estimate from 
the Congressional Budget Office, will say: You are going to take 
healthcare away from 15 million people. That is nonsense. This bill 
doesn't cut a single dime out of ObamaCare, not even one penny, not one 
penny taken out of Medicaid, not one penny taken out of the subsidies 
from the exchanges, not a single regulation change. It simply says that 
the IRS will not fine you if you cannot afford the insurance that 
ObamaCare made unaffordable.
  The $300 to $400 billion--even in Washington, that is a lot of money, 
and that is money that is better left in the pockets of America's 
workers and families and on the financial statements of businesses that 
are looking to expand their operations, increase their wages, and hire 
more workers.
  No, this hasn't been part of the tax debate for a long time. This 
Chamber considered repealing the mandate as part of our healthcare 
debate, but the Obama administration called the individual mandate a 
tax.
  In 2012, the Supreme Court upheld its constitutionality saying that 
it was a tax. The IRS collects it. You pay it on your 1040. That is 
about the ``taxiest'' provision I can think of.
  Let's make a commonsense decision, even if it is a little late in the 
game. Repeal the individual mandate. Pay for more tax cuts for families 
and businesses. Make a tax bill easier to pass. Deliver on the promise 
that we made to the American people to repeal the most unpopular part 
of ObamaCare and have a very big victory for the American people.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.

[[Page S6979]]

  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, we currently have the highest Federal 
corporate tax rate in the developed world. Businesses are moving from 
here overseas to seek a friendlier tax environment.
  If we are going to compete globally--and we are in a global economy--
we have to have a conducive tax and regulatory environment to do so. We 
don't have a conducive tax environment now. We cannot compete globally 
with the second highest or the highest corporate tax rate in the 
developed world.
  We also have a tax code that is far too complicated. Taxpayers and 
companies alike spend about 9 billion hours a year--9 billion hours a 
year--combined with IRS requirements, and this costs the U.S. economy 
more than $400 billion a year. This is just compliance costs.
  The Tax Code is also full of costly loopholes which allow businesses 
and millions of individuals to get away with paying no income tax or no 
corporate tax.
  After over 30 years, I am pleased to see Congress finally getting 
down to the work of doing a tax overhaul. A few weeks ago, we passed a 
budget that allows some cuts--about $1.5 trillion. I believe that when 
we do cut certain taxes, it does generate a greater economic activity, 
which does in turn mean additional revenue to government. However, 
there are limits to that model. We cannot simply assume we can cut all 
taxes and realize additional revenue. It is important that tax reform 
comes as well.
  We have been hearing a lot about cuts, cuts, cuts. If we are going to 
do cuts, cuts, cuts, we have to do a wholesale reform. With the 
national debt exceeding $20 trillion, we have to take this seriously. 
Rate reductions have to be accompanied by repeal or reform. We cannot 
simply rely on rosy economic assumptions, rosy growth rates to fill in 
the gap. We have to make tough decisions. We cannot have cuts today 
that assume we will grow a backbone in the out-years in terms of the 
real reforms we are going to need. We have seen this before. We make 
the cuts now; we rely on rosy economic assumptions; and then, in the 
out-years, if those don't come about, we forget what we were supposed 
to do in terms of reform. We can't do that today, not with a debt of 
$20 trillion, not with a deficit of over $600 billion a year adding to 
that total debt.
  I welcome this opportunity to do tax reform. It is needed. As I 
mentioned, we have to have a conducive tax and regulatory environment 
in order to compete, but we have to be realistic as well about what we 
can achieve, and we can't push off the reforms for cuts today.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sullivan). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                                SAVE Act

  Mr. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I rise with my colleague from New 
Mexico, Senator Heinrich, to discuss the Securing America's Voting 
Equipment Act of 2017, or the SAVE Act, which we introduced earlier 
this week.
  I know that you are well aware that the Senate Intelligence Committee 
has been conducting an in-depth investigation into attempts by the 
Russians to interfere with our elections last fall. What we have found 
is that the Russians' active measures preceded last fall, and they 
continue to this very day.
  We have an election coming up in November of this year and a major 
election next year, and both Senator Heinrich and I believe that it is 
so important that we act to assist States in protecting the integrity 
of their voting systems.
  Our bill seeks to facilitate information sharing on the threats posed 
to State election systems by foreign adversaries, to provide guidance 
to States on how to protect their systems against nefarious activity, 
and, for States that choose to do so, to allow them to access some 
Federal grant money to implement best practices to protect their 
systems.
  Let me be clear that I know of no evidence to date that actual vote 
tabulations were manipulated in any State in the elections last fall. 
Nevertheless, as early as the summer of 2016, the FBI discovered that 
foreign-based hackers had gained access to voter registration databases 
in two States. The Department of Homeland Security confirmed that 
Russia-linked actors attempted to access voter rolls and registration 
data in those two States.
  More alarming is that further investigation revealed that many more 
States than just two were ultimately found to have had their voting 
systems probed by the Russians. The Department of Homeland Security 
notified election officials in a total of 21 States that their election 
systems had been targeted by Russian Government-linked hackers.
  If voter rolls were altered or voting equipment tampered with, a 
compromise of these systems could open the door to voter 
disenfranchisement and would undermine public confidence and the 
integrity of our free and fair elections--a bedrock principle of our 
democracy.
  In response to these alarming threats, the SAVE Act would assist 
States in hardening their systems. It does not aim to tell States how 
to conduct their elections. The responsibility for conducting elections 
would remain with each State, as has been our country's tradition since 
its founding. State and local election officials alone, however, cannot 
be expected to defend against cyber attacks from foreign adversaries. 
That is why our bill seeks to bring to bear the unique authorities, 
capabilities, and resources that the Federal Government can offer to 
State and local election officials.
  Let me briefly describe the Heinrich-Collins bill.
  First, our bill would codify a decision made by both Secretaries of 
Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson and John Kelly, to designate election 
systems as ``critical infrastructure.'' This designation allows DHS to 
prioritize providing assistance to election jurisdictions and to 
establish formal mechanisms to enhance information sharing and 
collaboration within the electoral sector. More than 30 States took 
advantage of DHS's offer of assistance last year.
  Our bill also addresses a shortcoming that I raised during a hearing 
before the Senate Intelligence Committee in June regarding foreign 
efforts to compromise American voting systems. During this hearing, we 
learned that not a single secretary of state had been cleared to 
receive classified information before the 2016 election or in the 6 
months since voting systems had been declared as critical 
infrastructure. This delay is truly inexplicable. We have to be able to 
share this critical information in order for State election officials 
to take the necessary steps to safeguard their systems.
  Our bill addresses this limitation on information sharing by 
authorizing the Director of National Intelligence to provide security 
clearances to designated chief election officials in each State. That 
way, the intelligence community can share appropriate classified 
information with States regarding foreign threats targeting election 
systems.
  Our bill also mandates that DHS conduct a threat assessment on 
physical and electronic risks to voting systems. Then, in collaboration 
with stakeholders, the Department will develop best practices to 
address those risks.
  A few simple measures can make a big difference. Best practices like 
relying upon paper ballots, as the State of Maine currently does, and 
conducting postelection audits to ensure that the tabulation by vote-
counting machines matches the results of the paper ballots can bolster 
both resilience and public confidence in the integrity of the voting 
process.
  Finally, our bill creates a Federal grant program available for 
States to upgrade and safeguard the integrity of their systems by 
implementing the best practices that have been identified.
  Last year, the Russian Government sought to disrupt our democracy by 
threatening the integrity of our elections. It is incumbent upon 
Congress to

[[Page S6980]]

assist the States and those charged with conducting elections at the 
local, State, and Federal level to protect them from foreign 
interference. Our bill would do just that.
  I am very pleased to work with the leader on this effort, Senator 
Heinrich, and I would urge all of our colleagues to join Senator 
Heinrich and me in sponsoring this bill.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Mexico.
  Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, I want to start by thanking my 
Republican colleague from Maine, Senator Susan Collins, for her work on 
this legislation. In addition to her excellent work on the Intelligence 
Committee, her experience in homeland security and critical 
infrastructure was absolutely critical to the drafting of this 
legislation.
  As current members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, we 
are continuing to work on the investigation into Russian interference 
in the 2016 Presidential election. Yesterday, our committee held an 
important open hearing where we had representatives from companies such 
as Facebook, Google, and Twitter. We know that Russian Government-
linked actors purchased online advertisements last year in order to 
influence voters and, frankly, in order to divide Americans. 
Additionally, Russia used bots and trolls to spread misinformation and 
division organically through social media networks.
  While the President has labeled reports of these ads as a ``hoax,'' 
now that Facebook has actually released many of those ads and 
acknowledged their extensive reach last year, I hope we can all agree 
that this is a problem which we must solve before future election 
cycles.
  I have called on the Federal Election Commission to consider new 
guidance on how online advertisement platforms can better prevent 
foreign nationals from illicitly spending in future U.S. elections. I 
certainly support legislation to require the same transparency for 
online political ads that we currently enjoy for television or print or 
radio ads. These are simple, straightforward steps we can and must take 
to protect the sanctity of our democracy.
  We also know, based on intelligence assessments, that as part of 
Russia's larger hostile effort to interfere in last year's election, 
Russian actors targeted State election voting centers and State-level 
voting registration databases--the very heart of the infrastructure we 
all rely on for free and fair elections. In my view, these intrusions 
demonstrate a troubling vulnerability to potential future cyber attacks 
and manipulations by foreign hackers of our elections and our 
democratic process.
  Our democracy fundamentally hinges on protecting the rights of 
Americans to be able to fairly choose their own leaders. That is why I 
am proud to be partnering with Senator Collins in introducing the 
bipartisan Securing America's Voting Equipment Act, or the SAVE Act, to 
provide increased security for American election systems. I am proud to 
join Senator Collins on the floor today to demonstrate our commitment 
to being able to move forward in a bipartisan and pragmatic way to find 
solutions to protect the integrity of that voting process.
  Our bipartisan legislation would permanently designate State-run 
election systems as ``critical infrastructure,'' and it would require 
the Department of Homeland Security to create a Federal grant program 
to help States upgrade the physical, electronic, and even the 
administrative components of their voting systems and develop those 
best practices that Senator Collins mentioned in her speech earlier.
  The SAVE Act would also require the Director of National Intelligence 
to sponsor security clearances to the officials responsible for the 
administration and certification of Federal elections in each State--
usually our secretaries of state. The Director of National Intelligence 
would then share all appropriate classified information with those 
State officials to help them protect their election systems from these 
kinds of security threats.
  Finally, the SAVE Act would create a Federal competition that would 
award computer programmers who discover vulnerabilities in nonactive 
voting systems so that the equipment and the software vendors can work 
to fix those vulnerabilities.
  The SAVE Act does not aim to tell States how to conduct their 
elections or what policies or procedures or equipment is best where 
they are; rather, this bill is designed to facilitate information 
sharing with States, to provide guidelines on how best to secure those 
systems, and to allow States to access funds to develop solutions and 
implement best practices in response to these threats.
  I consulted closely with my own Secretary of State from New Mexico, 
Secretary of State Maggie Toulouse Oliver, in drafting this legislation 
to ensure that it provides the security measures State election 
officials need to keep our voting systems secure. I commend Secretary 
Toulouse Oliver for her tremendous leadership in the effort to 
safeguard election infrastructure at the State level.
  We are at a critical juncture in the Russia investigation in which 
the public is beginning to see the tactical evidence of how the Kremlin 
sought to influence our elections and divide our populous. Until we set 
up stronger protections of our election systems and take the necessary 
steps to prevent future foreign influence campaigns, our Nation's 
democratic institutions will remain vulnerable. But we have the tools 
to fix those vulnerabilities. I look forward to working with Senator 
Collins and all of our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure 
that we do that.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Colorado.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed 
to complete my remarks prior to the vote.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I will be brief in my remarks. We are 
about to vote on the confirmation of Allison Eid to become a judge on 
the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, which is 
housed in Denver, CO.
  I have had the privilege and honor of knowing Justice Eid for over a 
decade. Justice Eid now serves on the Colorado Supreme Court. I have 
known Justice Eid since the time I was a young law student, 6 foot 4 
and with black hair. That is how long I have known Justice Eid. I am 
very honored to have worked with her.
  I know that a lot of my classmates who had her as a professor are 
people who shared political perspectives that were far different from 
Justice Eid's, but they never criticized her teaching. They always 
found her to be openminded and open to debate of other's views.
  Most importantly, what Justice Eid will do, once confirmed to the 
Tenth Circuit Court, is to make sure that she rules based on the law, 
not on personal opinion or preferences but how the law dictates. That 
is the kind of judge she will be and continues to be, from the supreme 
court to the circuit court. She will be somebody who is a guardian of 
the Constitution, as our Founders were hoping we would see on our 
Federal courts when they wrote the Constitution.
  I have a letter that I ask unanimous consent be printed in the 
Record. It is from the National Native American Bar Association in 
support of Ms. Eid's nomination.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                          National Native American


                                              Bar Association,

                                                    July 12, 2017.
     Re National Native American Bar Association Support for 
         Confirmation of Colorado Supreme Court Justice Allison 
         Eid to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals.

     United States Senate,
       Committee on the Judiciary,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Mitch McConnell,
     Majority Leader,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Charles Schumer,
     Minority Leader,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Michael Bennet,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Cory Gardner,
     Washington, DC.
     Hon. Steven Daines,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Senators: As President of the National Native American 
     Bar Association, it is my privilege to endorse Colorado 
     Supreme Court Justice Allison Eid to be a Judge on the United 
     States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Since she 
     began her tenure on the Colorado Supreme Court in 2006, and 
     indeed throughout her legal career before her

[[Page S6981]]

     appointment to the bench, Justice Eid has demonstrated deep 
     understanding of federal Indian law and policy matters, as 
     well as significant respect for tribes as governments. Such 
     qualities and experiences are rare among nominees to the 
     federal bench and consequently, many in Indian Country 
     strongly support Justice Eid's confirmation.
       The National Native American Bar Association's mission is 
     to advance justice for Native Americans. As our name implies, 
     NNABA represents the interests of all populations indigenous 
     to the lands which are now collectively the United States: 
     American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians. Our 
     members include Native American attorneys, Indian law 
     practitioners and professors, as well as numerous tribal 
     court advocates and tribal court judges. As you know, all 
     branches of the Federal government play an integral role in 
     justice for Native Americans and their government-to-
     government relationship with the United States. The unique 
     legal posture of Indian tribes to the federal government is 
     deeply rooted in American history and has always been heavily 
     intertwined with often-shifting federal Indian policy, but 
     often a central role in justice for Native Americans rests 
     with the federal courts. Yet nearly all federal courts have 
     suffered without any Native voice on the bench and often 
     without judges with knowledge of federal Indian law or 
     familiarity with Indian Country. NNABA strongly encourages 
     the confirmation of judges with experience or interest in 
     federal Indian law and who respect the role of tribal 
     sovereigns under the Constitution and treaties with the 
     United States. It is NNABA's honor and privilege to commend 
     for your consideration for the confirmation of Justice 
     Allison Eid, who exemplifies those qualities and who is also 
     an exceptionally well-qualified candidate in every other 
     regard, as well as the first Colorado woman to be nominated 
     to the Tenth Circuit.
       Her academic credentials are excellent. Raised by a single 
     mother in Spokane, Washington, Justice Eid began college at 
     the University of Idaho and then transferred to Stanford 
     University where she graduated with distinction and was a 
     member of the Phi Beta Kappa honor society. After Stanford, 
     Justice Eid served as a speechwriter to President Ronald 
     Reagan's Secretary of Education, William Bennett. She went on 
     to attend the University of Chicago Law School where she 
     served as Articles Editor on the Law Review, graduated with 
     High Honors, and was elected Order of the Coif. Justice Eid 
     began her legal career as a law clerk for Judge Jerry Smith 
     on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 
     She then served as a law clerk to Justice Clarence Thomas on 
     the United States Supreme Court.
       In private practice at Arnold and Porter following her 
     clerkships, Justice Eid practiced both commercial and 
     appellate litigation for a variety of clients, including 
     significantly for the Hopi Tribe. She was a key part of 
     litigation teams asserting the Hopi Tribe's sovereign rights 
     in litigation against the United States Department of the 
     Interior, for example in the so-called ``Bennett Freeze'' 
     litigation, wherein the Hopi Tribe sought the right to 
     develop its lands and resources despite a federal moratorium 
     on such development.
       Justice Eid later became a tenured professor at the 
     University of Colorado Law School where she taught 
     Legislation, Constitutional Law, and Torts, and served as the 
     faculty clerkship advisor. During her time at the University 
     of Colorado, Justice Eid continued her service in the legal 
     community, being active in a number of bar organizations and 
     serving as a frequent speaker and author. In 2005 she was 
     appointed by Colorado Attorney General John Suthers to serve 
     as the Solicitor General of Colorado. One year later, 
     Governor Bill Owens appointed Justice Eid to the Colorado 
     Supreme Court where she has served for 11 years, and was 
     successfully retained by the voters of Colorado on a 
     statewide ballot. While serving as a Justice on the 
     Colorado Supreme Court, Justice Eid has continued to teach 
     at the University of Colorado. She also serves as the 
     Chair of the Supreme Court Water Court Committee which 
     works to identify rule and statutory changes to achieve 
     efficiencies in water court cases, while maintaining 
     quality outcomes for all. Justice Eid was also appointed 
     by Chief Justice John Roberts to serve on the Federal 
     Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules--a prestigious 
     appointment where she has served alongside federal judges, 
     law professors, and lawyers to craft revisions to the 
     Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure--including her 
     support for efforts to allow tribes to file amicus briefs 
     as of right at the Supreme Court just as state governments 
     can. Justice Eid is also active in her community and 
     church. As the mother of two children, Justice Eid has 
     volunteered numerous hours at her children's schools and 
     for their extracurricular activities.
       NNABA is very concerned that federal appointees, whether 
     judicial, executive branch or independent agency 
     representatives, be well versed in and respectful of tribal 
     sovereignty. Justice Eid has significantly more experience 
     with Indian law cases than any other recent Circuit Court 
     nominee. Her Indian law cases generally reflect her respect 
     for tribes as sovereign governments and understanding of 
     tribes' roles in our federalism. Justice Eid has been 
     involved in five Indian law cases, each addressing only a 
     subset of myriad issues of importance to Indian tribes. We 
     have examined Justice Eid's record and are heartened by the 
     respect and fairness she has always shown tribes appearing 
     before the Colorado Supreme Court. We have canvassed NNABA 
     members who have appeared before or clerked for Justice Eid 
     (yes, Justice Eid has hired a Native American law clerk!) and 
     received unanimous positive feedback.
       Justice Eid has knowledge gained from living in and working 
     in a State which has Indian Country and strong tribal 
     governments, and also from being the spouse of a noted 
     American Indian Law practitioner, Mr. Troy Eid, who served as 
     Chair of the Indian Law and Order Commission, as the United 
     States Attorney for Colorado from 2006-2009, and who now co-
     chairs the national Indian law practice group at Greenberg 
     Traurig LLP, is admitted to practice before numerous tribal 
     courts and serves as a Tribal appointee on the Navajo Nation 
     Commission on Judicial Conduct. Her husband is widely 
     regarded as an expert in Indian law, and in particular on 
     tribal law enforcement and access to justice issues. In her 
     personal life, Justice Eid regularly interacts with tribal 
     leaders and Native American lawyers and often brings that 
     knowledge to bear on the bench. We believe her to be a 
     conscientious, diligent, careful and scholarly jurist. Each 
     NNABA member we heard from concluded that Justice Eid is a 
     woman of integrity and extremely well-qualified for the Tenth 
     Circuit.
       NNABA has long sought the nomination of federal judges with 
     knowledge of federal Indian law, and more generally with 
     experience on western issues directly impacting Indian tribes 
     such as water law and public lands. With Justice Neil 
     Gorsuch's elevation to the U.S. Supreme Court, that knowledge 
     base and experience is lacking in the current makeup of the 
     Tenth Circuit, and is a vitally important perspective. In 
     short, Justice Eid has shown herself to be interested and 
     engaged and willing to make the federal judiciary more 
     accessible to tribes, who regrettably often find themselves 
     in the position of federal court litigants.
       On the Colorado Supreme Court, Justice Eid has always 
     ``gotten it right'' on Indian law matters, as reflected in 
     her majority opinion in Pawnee Well Users v. Wolfe, 320 P.3d 
     320 (Colo. 2013) (tribal water rights), in her joining of the 
     dissent in Southern Ute v. King Consolidated Ditch Co., 250 
     P.3d 1226 (Colo. 2011), and in her votes to grant certiorari 
     in TMR v. TER, 2013 WL 3809175 (Indian Child Welfare Act 
     case) and Begaye v. People, 2011 WL 6162622 (Batson challenge 
     involving Native American jury pool). We also note her 
     important concurring opinion in Cash Advance & Preferred Cash 
     Loans v. State, 242 P.3d 1099 (Colo. 2010), principally a 
     case about tribal enterprises' sovereign immunity from suit 
     and service of process. This opinion illustrates Justice 
     Eid's respect for tribal sovereignty and we think is 
     emblematic of the practicality, fairness, the careful 
     attention to what the law requires, and the accessibility of 
     writing style that she would bring to the Tenth Circuit.
       In sum, while we do not expect that Justice Eid will agree 
     with tribal interests on every issue, we also believe that 
     she is immensely well qualified and we are confident that 
     Justice Eid is a mainstream, commonsense Westerner who will 
     rule fairly on Indian Country matters. We endorse her 
     confirmation to serve.
       Thank you for considering our views.
       And special thanks to Senators Daines and Gardner, who have 
     consistently solicited feedback from tribes and tribal 
     organizations regarding federal judicial nominations. NNABA 
     appreciates your continued commitment to Indian country, to 
     fortifying the government-to-government relationship between 
     the United States and tribes, and to ensuring that Native 
     American voices are heard at the highest levels of the 
     federal government.
       If you have any further questions, do not hesitate to 
     contact our NNABA Nominations and Endorsements Committee 
     Chair, and Immediate Past NNABA President Jennifer Weddle.
           Respectfully and humbly,

                                              Diandra Benally,

                                        President, National Native
                              American Bar Association, 2017-2018.

  Mr. GARDNER. I ask for the support of my colleagues for Justice Eid's 
confirmation to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The question is, Will the Senate advise and 
consent to the Eid nomination?
  Mr. WICKER. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. 
McCaskill), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the Senator 
from Virginia (Mr. Warner) are necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Fischer). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 56, nays 41, as follows:

[[Page S6982]]

  


                      [Rollcall Vote No. 259 Ex.]

                                YEAS--56

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCain
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--41

     Baldwin
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Franken
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Hirono
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Markey
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--3

     McCaskill
     Menendez
     Warner
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



