

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7163]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, November 9, 2017, 
at 9:30 a.m., in SR-328A to conduct a hearing on S. 2099.


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, November 9, 2017, 
at 9:30 a.m., in SR-328A to conduct a hearing on the following 
nominations: Glen R. Smith, of Iowa, to be a Member of the Farm Credit 
Administration Board, and Stephen Alexander Vaden, of Tennessee, to be 
General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture.


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, November 9, 2017 at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Robert H. McMahon, of 
Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary, R. D. James, of Missouri, and 
Bruce D. Jette, of Virginia, both to be an Assistant Secretary of the 
Army, and Shon J. Manasco, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of 
the Air Force, all of the Department of Defense.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, 
November 9, 2017, at 10:30 a.m. to conduct a hearing on the nomination 
of Kirstjen Nielsen, of Virginia, to be Secretary of Homeland Security, 
Ernest W. Dubester, of Virginia, Colleen Kiko, of North Dakota, and 
James Thomas Abbott, of Virginia, each to be a Member of the Federal 
Labor Relations Authority, and Jonathan H. Pittman, to be an Associate 
Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, November 9, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SD-226 to conduct a hearing on S. 2070 and the following 
nominations: Gregory G. Katsas, of Virginia, to be United States 
Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, Jeffrey Uhlman 
Beaverstock, to be United States District Judge for the Southern 
District of Alabama, Emily Coody Marks, and Brett Joseph Talley, both 
to be a United States District Judge for the Middle District of 
Alabama, Holly Lou Teeter, to be United States District Judge for the 
District of Kansas, and Bobby L. Christine, to be United States 
Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia, and David J. Freed, to 
be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, both 
of the Department of Justice.

                          ____________________



