

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7214-S7215]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to 
require continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the 
Annual Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic 
incidents in Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish 
communities, and the efforts of the United States to partner with 
European governments, the European Union, and civil society groups, to 
combat anti-Semitism, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to 
amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving 
through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and to require the provision of advance electronic 
information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 527

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 527, a bill to improve 
access to emergency medical services, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 807

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 807, a bill 
to provide anti-retaliation protections for antitrust whistleblowers.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for certain 
rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center services 
furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1278

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1278, a bill to provide 
for the admission of the State of Washington, D.C. into the Union.


                                S. 1299

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1299, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to reduce the occurrence of diabetes 
in Medicare beneficiaries by extending coverage under Medicare for 
medical nutrition therapy services to such beneficiaries with pre-
diabetes or with risk factors for developing type 2 diabetes.


                                S. 1378

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1378, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to require an element in preseparation 
counseling for members of the Armed Forces on assistance and support 
services for caregivers of certain veterans through the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1497

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1497, a bill 
to amend title 40, United States Code, to provide a lactation room in 
public buildings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1498

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1498, a bill to 
establish in the Smithsonian Institution a comprehensive American 
women's history museum, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1503, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of 
the 60th anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Brown, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1591, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to the Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1591, supra.


                                S. 1701

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1701, a bill 
to provide for Federal agencies to develop public access policies 
relating to research conducted by employees of that agency or from 
funds administered by that agency.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill to provide 
for wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1857

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1857, a bill to establish a 
compliance deadline of May 15, 2023, for Step 2 emissions standards for 
new residential wood heaters, new residential hydronic heaters, and 
forced-air furnaces.


                                S. 1871

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of podiatrists in the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1939

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1939, a bill 
to repeal the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act.


                                S. 2029

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2029, a bill to establish a 
National and Community Service Administration to carry out the national 
and volunteer service programs, to expand participation in such 
programs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2041

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2041, a bill to promote the use of 
resilient energy systems to rebuild infrastructure following disasters.

[[Page S7215]]

  



                                S. 2094

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2094, a bill to 
require the prompt reporting for national instant criminal background 
check system purposes of members of the Armed Forces convicted of 
domestic violence offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2107

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2107, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to require the Under Secretary of Health 
to report major adverse personnel actions involving certain health care 
employees to the National Practitioner Data Bank and to applicable 
State licensing boards, and for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 75, a resolution 
recognizing the 100th anniversary of the Academy of Nutrition and 
Dietetics, the largest organization of food and nutrition professionals 
in the world.


                              S. RES. 323

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 323, a 
resolution requiring sexual harassment training for Members, officers, 
employees, interns, and fellows of the Senate and a periodic survey of 
the Senate.

                          ____________________



