

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8392]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     NEW YORK CITY TERRORIST ATTACK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Ohio (Ms. Kaptur) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, earlier this week a driver whom law 
enforcement has identified as Sayfullo Saipov, violently rammed his 
pickup truck into a crowd in Manhattan, killing 8 people and injuring 
11. Local officials called it the deadliest attack since September 11, 
2001, in that city.
  My heart breaks for those who have lost their lives--for their 
families, for their friends, and for their colleagues--due to this 
violent act. Two Americans and six of whom were tourists visiting our 
Nation and New York City to experience the wonders of America's largest 
metropolis met the crass act, the murderous act of a terrorist.
  Our Nation's deep gratitude goes out to the first responders. Imagine 
these heroic Americans who intervened under very chaotic circumstances 
to bring down this criminal. Imagine yourself in that position.
  This attack raises many questions about how this individual came to 
America and how he was allowed to stay. The President's tweets 
obliquely blame this person or that person, some in Congress, some not 
in Congress, but he misses the larger point: our Federal Government, 
the legislative branch--the first defined in our Constitution--the 
executive branch, and the judicial branch, need to work together to 
tackle our flawed immigration system.

                              {time}  1030

  How can we make it more secure while upholding our values as a nation 
of immigrants? The Bible reminds us: At one point, you and your 
predecessors and your family were aliens, too.
  These are the questions to which we should be dedicating ourselves. 
We have security systems we must perfect, but it requires working 
together. We are supposed to be the adults in the Republic. A true 
leader would convene a working group of both parties, along with other 
experts, to tackle these security challenges brought to light again by 
this tragedy. Wouldn't that be constructive? Instead, there is more 
division. That is not a recipe for success.
  Let's not forget a comprehensive bill passed in the Senate in 2013, 
on a vote of 68-32 and a bipartisan House companion bill that had 201 
cosponsors, but the Republican-controlled House here refused to bring 
that bill to the floor for a vote. That bipartisan reform bill on 
immigration eliminated the diversity visa lottery by which the murderer 
got into this country. Imagine if that bill had been passed. We would 
be in a different position.
  We can work together, but we must move past the fear-mongering, the 
talking points, the cheap political stunts to appeal to a media that 
runs 24/7 and just looks for more fodder. Our job in Congress is to 
defend our Constitution and, in so doing, defend liberty. This includes 
our primary responsibility to work together to assure that our people 
feel safe and secure. We defend the Constitution by defending and 
protecting them.
  The goal must not be division. The goal cannot be shallow attention 
and tweets on social media and cable news. Our people have a higher 
calling that our Constitution defines. The recent terrible tragedy in 
New York City reminds us that unity is always powerful, and it 
surmounts division.
  It is time for that unity in this Capitol, and I look for the 
leadership in the Presidency, in this Chamber, and in the judicial 
branch to achieve it.

                          ____________________



