

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8143]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H.R. 4099. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that children of homeless veterans are included in the 
     calculation of the amounts of certain per diem grants; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CHABOT:
       H.R. 4100. A bill to amend title 36, United States Code, to 
     revise the Federal charter for the Foundation of the Federal 
     Bar Association; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Courtney):
       H.R. 4101. A bill to reverse declining milk consumption in 
     schools; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr. Farenthold, and Mr. 
             Hurd):
       H.R. 4102. A bill to apply certain medical requirements to 
     an operator of an air balloon; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, and Ms. 
             Barragan):
       H.R. 4103. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     to submit an annual report to Congress on certain statistics 
     related to applications for a permit to drill an oil or gas 
     well, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H.R. 4104. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to extend the additional temporary exception 
     from the Medicare site-neutral inpatient payment rate to 
     additional DRG codes for severe wound discharges from long-
     term care hospitals; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. 
             Serrano, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. 
             Rush, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Espaillat, and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 4105. A bill to amend title XX of the Social Security 
     Act to extend the health professions workforce demonstration 
     project; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER (for herself and Ms. Rosen):
       H.R. 4106. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for an increase in the amount of monthly dependents 
     and survivors income security benefit payable to surviving 
     spouses by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan (for himself, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. 
             Smith of Nebraska, and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 4107. A bill to award a Congressional gold medal, 
     collectively, to the crew of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, in 
     recognition their perseverance, their bravery, and their 
     service to the nation; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. DONOVAN:
       H.R. 4108. A bill to establish an Anti-Bullying Roundtable 
     to study bullying in elementary and secondary schools in the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 4109. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to provide for the deposits of bidders in auctions of 
     spectrum frequencies to be deposited in the Treasury; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LEVIN (for himself, Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Kind, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, and Mr. Doggett):
       H.R. 4110. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify that all provisions shall apply to legally 
     married same-sex couples in the same manner as other married 
     couples, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS:
       H.R. 4111. A bill to amend the Small Business Investment 
     Act of 1958 to improve the number of small business 
     investment companies in underlicensed States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Lee, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Takano, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             Pallone, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 4112. A bill to ensure the safety of workers of 
     contractors that serve and supply the Armed Forces and the 
     accountable use of taxpayer dollars; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN:
       H.R. 4113. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     allow the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into certain 
     agreements with non-Department of Veterans Affairs health 
     care providers if the Secretary is not feasibly able to 
     provide health care in facilities of the Department or 
     through contracts or sharing agreements, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Evans, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Payne, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Carbajal, and Mr. 
             Kihuen):
       H.R. 4114. A bill to require Federal agencies to address 
     environmental justice, to require consideration of cumulative 
     impacts in certain permitting decisions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Natural Resources, 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
       H. Res. 579. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. BACON:
       H. Res. 581. A resolution congratulating the people of the 
     Republic of Turkey and Turkish Americans nationwide on 
     Turkish Republic Day; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana:
       H. Res. 582. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that Joseph Leon George should be honored 
     for heroism at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on December 7, 1941; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
       H. Res. 583. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the last week in October as ``Black Women's 
     Health Week''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Welch, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Evans, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Norton, and 
             Ms. Pingree):
       H. Res. 584. A resolution recognizing the International Day 
     of Rural Women on October 15, 2017, in celebration of women 
     farmers around the world; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Miss RICE of New York (for herself and Mr. Katko):
       H. Res. 585. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to direct the Chief Administrative Officer 
     to carry out an annual information security training program 
     for Members, officers, and employees of the House; to the 
     Committee on Rules.

                          ____________________



