

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9711]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING NATIONAL MINERS DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the Nation 
observed National Miners Day, which was designated by Congress to honor 
the contributions and sacrifices of miners both past and present.
  Mr. Speaker, I am the proud grandson of a Pennsylvania coal miner. 
National Miners Day does mark the anniversary of the worst mining 
accident in history on December 6, 1907, in Monongah, West Virginia. 
The disaster resulted in the death of 362 miners.
  While technology in mining has continued to improve, mining remains 
difficult work. Every day, our Nation's miners work so hard excavating 
minerals for energy production and raw materials for many forms of 
manufacturing. In particular--my family heritage--I am very proud of 
our Pennsylvania coal miners who really dug the coal that fueled the 
industrial revolution and provided the energy for fueling our 
preparations to win World War I and World War II.
  From coal to copper, and from gold to granite, miners work to provide 
materials that play an important role in our everyday lives. American 
miners today deliver the same commitment to the industry that they 
historically have. But thanks to advancements in technology, we are 
seeing the industry operate smarter, faster, and, most importantly, 
safer.
  Americans benefit from the energy, metals, and minerals made 
available to us thanks to mining. It is as fundamental today as it was 
centuries ago.
  Mr. Speaker, to all of our miners, I say: Thank you for all you have 
given to this important industry.


              Congratulating the Titusville Area Hospital

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
congratulate the Titusville Area Hospital on a national recognition for 
overall excellence in patient perspective.
  The award, which is presented by the National Organization of State 
Offices of Rural Health, was announced on National Rural Health Day. 
Titusville Area Hospital CEO Lee Clinton called the award a true honor 
and added that he is very proud of the care provided and the level of 
expertise offered to the citizens served at the Titusville Area 
Hospital.
  He said: ``All of our staff strives to provide each patient with the 
best possible experience every time. This award demonstrates our 
ability to exceed as a small, rural community hospital.''
  Mr. Speaker, our rural hospitals face complex challenges that range 
from financial concerns to a shortage of healthcare professionals. 
Thankfully, the Titusville Area Hospital is being recognized as a top 
performer that is increasing patient satisfaction, and I am proud that 
it sets the standard for other rural hospitals.
  Mr. Speaker, I wholeheartedly congratulate CEO Lee Clinton and all of 
the staff of the Titusville Area Hospital on this outstanding 
achievement.

                          ____________________



