

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7915-S7916]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      REMEMBERING BOATSWAIN'S MATE SECOND CLASS JOSEPH LEON GEORGE

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I rise to honor the heroism of 
Boatswain's Mate Second Class Joseph Leon George.
  On December 7, 1941, 26-year-old Joe George served as a crew member 
aboard the USS Vestal, a repair ship that was moored next to the USS 
Arizona at Pearl Harbor. The attack on Pearl Harbor was a history-
defining event for our Nation, one we humbly observe each year to 
remember and honor the 2,403 Americans who perished.
  On that day, Joe George, along with so many other courageous heroes, 
would take swift and decisive action, putting his own life on the line 
to save sailors whom he had never met and would never know.
  When the USS Arizona was attacked, the forward ammunition magazine of 
the ship exploded--we have all seen that very famous photograph of the 
Arizona--and engulfed countless sailors in the inferno. Joe George, 
from his post on the nearby repair boat, recognized six badly burned 
sailors who were trapped in the control tower on the Arizona's main 
mast, with no escape options available.
  Despite the fact that he was ordered to cut the line--to cut the 
rope--between the Vestal and the sinking Arizona, Joe relentlessly 
heaved a line, over and over, which spanned a distance of almost 80 
feet between the two ships, until Joe was finally able to reach the 
sailors with his rope.
  Joe's selfless actions saved six sailors who would have otherwise 
perished in the flames on the USS Arizona that day. While two of those 
six would succumb to their injuries shortly thereafter, the remaining 
four survivors have Joe to thank for their lives.
  Amidst all the chaos that day, Joe George was never identified as the 
sailor who threw that lifeline. In fact, the four survivors diligently 
sought for information to recognize the man whom they were never able 
to thank--Joe George, the person who saved their lives.
  It wasn't until 36 years later that the unknown sailor would be 
acknowledged when Joe George conducted an interview with the University 
of North Texas on August 5, 1978. Joe George contributed his 
experiences while serving during the Japanese attack at Pearl Harbor as 
part of the university's oral history for the ``Day of Infamy.''
  This was the first time Joe would speak of the event, confirmed by 
his ship log records, commanding officer's remarks, and, most 
importantly, the two living survivors that have Joe to thank for their 
lives.
  Joe's actions that day, which we find hard to match words that do it 
justice, are nothing short of what an American hero is in servitude, 
dedication, and sacrifice.
  While the years of searching for Joe and establishing the basis for 
proper recognition do not go unappreciated, it is with great respect 
and admiration that we take a moment to honor this distinguished 
sailor's actions so long ago.
  The specific events of December 7, 1941, 76 years ago today, continue 
to age with each passing year, but the memories and stories of heroes 
like Joe thrive as our Nation reflects in humility and gratitude.
  It is with great respect that I recognize this time today to honor 
Joe George. Some 76 years ago today, Joe's actions saved six sailors.
  Today Joe's family will receive the Navy Bronze Star for Valor at the 
remembrance ceremony at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii. This is the first time 
a medal has been presented on the Memorial of the USS Arizona.
  I was honored to work with Colorado Springs resident Donald Stratton 
to solidify this honor for Joe George. Don is one of the sailors who 
was saved, and he has been fighting for decades to make sure this day 
of recognition would take place. So 76 years later, we culminate the 
work of Don Stratton's mission to commemorate the man who the Stratton 
family has everything to be thankful for.
  I am beyond words with excitement to be part of this momentous 
occasion

[[Page S7916]]

with so many others who worked tirelessly over the years to make this 
happen. My hope is that Joe's valiant story joins the permanent 
foundation of our Nation's history for future generations to recognize, 
understand, and appreciate the sacrifice of the countless heroes who 
have come before them.
  I had the incredible privilege of spending Veterans Day just a few 
weeks ago with Donald Stratton and his family in Colorado Springs. I 
was in his living room as he and his wife shared their experiences 
together.
  Donald Stratton talked about what it was like to be on fire with five 
of his shipmates shimmying across that rope to the vessel and to their 
freedom, to their safety.
  I was in that living room on Veterans Day when the family received a 
phone call from the Colorado Springs City Council, naming a bridge in 
honor of Donald Stratton. I saw the exuberance and joy that the family 
shared at that recognition.
  Donald Stratton's service didn't end at Pearl Harbor. After a year in 
the hospital, he would return to the Pacific to fight in mission after 
mission.
  Now, 76 years later, Donald Stratton's last mission is complete with 
the recognition of the man who saved his life.
  I want to read a letter that will be presented at the memorial 
service at Pearl Harbor where Joe George, the hero who saved so many 
lives, will be awarded the Bronze Star.

       Dear Mr. Stratton and the George family,
       Dawn broke seven decades ago on this day to a world at war. 
     The peaceful waters of this harbor churned in violent 
     reaction to a vicious attack that changed forever the course 
     of our nation. You know, you were here. All of you here today 
     are united as families, soldiers, sailors and airmen through 
     blood and sacrifice of so many who gave so much.
       The recognition of Joe George is an exclamation point to 
     the thousands of servicemembers on the U.S.S. Arizona and the 
     men he saved, and the families that exist today--

  Who are celebrating in Pearl Harbor today--

     because of his heroic actions. This has been a long time 
     coming, a last mission for rightful recognition. As the days 
     march forward so too have far too many of our World War II 
     veterans--please know that your work to achieve this one last 
     salute to courage proves that you will never be forgotten. 
     These still waters will ripple for eternity in awe of your 
     tireless and unyielding dedication to this great country.
       On August 15, 1945 my grandfather stationed in France wrote 
     a letter to his family that started with these words, ``Aha, 
     that day, 14 August, is indeed a history making day, and last 
     night at twelve o'clock when at last all the rumors were 
     confirmed that the world was at peace I said a silent prayer 
     and know that it won't be long until we are all together 
     again.'' To all who are present today in spirit and in 
     person--you are making history, bringing our nation together 
     once again, as this final mission is accomplished giving due 
     recognition for valor in combat, for heroic and meritorious 
     service. In the words of Donald Stratton, on December 7, 
     1941, ``Everybody had to be somewhere.'' Today's ceremony 
     reminds our nation of how truly blessed we are because you 
     were here.

  Mr. President, this is very well likely the last memorial service at 
Pearl Harbor that will have survivors of the USS Arizona in attendance, 
and I hope that Americans across the country will take the time to 
reflect on the greatness of so many who have left us behind now but who 
left us a country that we can be so proud of. We have enjoyed 76 years 
of freedom thanks to them.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cassidy). The Senator from Georgia.

                          ____________________



