

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7157-S7158]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 121

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 121, a bill to establish the 
veterans' business outreach center program, to improve the programs for 
veterans of the Small Business Administration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 403

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 403, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve access to health care through 
expanded health savings accounts, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 793, a bill to prohibit sale of shark fins, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 925

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 925, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the ability of health care 
professionals to treat veterans through the use of telemedicine, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1400

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1400, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to enhance protections of Native 
American tangible cultural heritage, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) 
and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1539, a bill to protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1589, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act to expand 
the availability of employee stock ownership plans in S corporations, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home infusion 
therapy services temporary transitional payment under the Medicare 
program.


                                S. 1753

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1753, a bill to amend the 
S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 to provide a temporary license 
for loan originators transitioning between employers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1829, a bill to 
amend title V of the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, 
Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1838

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1838, a bill to repeal 
the authority under the National Labor Relations Act for States to 
enact laws prohibiting agreements requiring membership in a labor 
organization as a condition of employment, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1871

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of podiatrists in the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1936

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1936, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for the designation of 
State approving agencies for multi-State apprenticeship programs for 
purposes of the educational assistance programs of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2022

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2022, a bill to amend the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to provide for reciprocal marketing 
approval of certain drugs, biological products, and devices that are 
authorized to be lawfully marketed abroad, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2044

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2044, a bill to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to protect more victims of domestic violence by preventing 
their abusers from possessing or receiving firearms, and for other 
purposes.

[[Page S7158]]

  



                                S. 2045

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Sanders) and the 
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2045, a bill to establish a grant program to encourage States to adopt 
certain policies and procedures relating to the transfer and possession 
of firearms.


                                S. 2073

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2073, a bill to 
establish a vegetation management pilot program on National Forest 
System land to better protect utility infrastructure from passing 
wildfire, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2095

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2095, a bill to regulate 
assault weapons, to ensure that the right to keep and bear arms is not 
unlimited, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 319

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 319, a 
resolution supporting the goals, activities, and ideals of Prematurity 
Awareness Month.

                          ____________________



