

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8600]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   VISITING PREGNANCY RESOURCE CLINIC DURING NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Norman). The Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, earlier this week, I had 
the opportunity to visit the Pregnancy Resource Clinic in State 
College, Pennsylvania, Centre County, Pennsylvania's Fifth 
Congressional District.
  The Pregnancy Resource Center is the only community-funded medical 
clinic in State College that specifically addresses unplanned pregnancy 
in a Christ-centered atmosphere. Through education and encouragement, 
the Pregnancy Resource Center empowers both men and women to make 
informed life choices.
  Mr. Speaker, I had the opportunity to meet with Executive Director 
Jenny Summers and many members of the Pregnancy Resource Center staff 
to see, firsthand, the important services that it provides to the 
region.
  The Pregnancy Resource Center, importantly, upholds the sanctity of 
life. It encourages clients to continue the pregnancy to full term 
rather than choosing abortion for their unborn child.
  Mr. Speaker, this is always important, but even more so this month 
during National Adoption Month. Each year, loving families adopt 
thousands of children and provide them with the love and support of a 
family and their forever home.
  I commend the Pregnancy Resource Center for the essential services it 
provides and celebrate the gift of adoption to both children and 
parents alike.


                         REBOOT Combat Recovery

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, on Saturday, the Nation 
celebrates Veterans Day, a day where we honor all those who have served 
in the Armed Forces.
  As we pay tribute with ceremonies and parades, we must remember that 
freedom is not free. Many of our veterans live with the effects of war 
long after they have been discharged.
  Mr. Speaker, I recently had the opportunity to learn about a group 
that is helping combat veterans heal the wounds of war. REBOOT Combat 
Recovery is a Christian-based program structured in a 12-week course 
for veterans and their spouses to share their struggles and to begin 
the healing process.
  Many of our vets suffer in the form of anger, anxiety, depression, 
social withdrawal, and, most tragically, too often, suicide.
  The REBOOT Combat Recovery program is free. It has more than 50 
locations in 23 States and more than 1,600 graduates. REBOOT 
communities are safe, private, and mostly led by veterans.
  As we honor our veterans this weekend, let us remember that every 
veteran's story is different. Let us help them find the answers to heal 
and to recover from the effects of war.

                          ____________________



