

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8046]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Whitehouse, and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 2229. A bill to direct the Secretary of Commerce, acting 
     through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, to conduct coastal community 
     vulnerability assessments related to ocean acidification, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 2230. A bill to require the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to improve services for survivors of 
     domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or 
     stalking; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 2231. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for institutional ineligibility based on low 
     cohort repayment rates and to require risk sharing payments 
     of institutions of higher education; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. KING:
       S. 2232. A bill to amend the Public Utility Regulatory 
     Policies Act of 1978 to provide for the integration of 
     distributed energy resources, to modernize electricity grid 
     infrastructure, to provide for the consideration of non-wires 
     alternatives, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms. Murkowski, and Ms. 
             Cortez Masto):
       S. 2233. A bill to protect Native children and promote 
     public safety in Indian country; to the Committee on Indian 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 2234. A bill to require the Federal Trade Commission to 
     develop cybersecurity resources for consumer education and 
     awareness regarding the purchase and use of devices that are 
     part of the Internet of Things, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Cruz):
       S. 2235. A bill to establish a tiered hiring preference for 
     members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Booker, 
             Mrs. Ernst, Ms. Murkowski, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Portman, Mr. Graham, 
             Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Harris, Ms. Hassan, Ms. 
             Cortez Masto, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Warren, 
             and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 2236. A bill to require covered discrimination and 
     covered harassment awareness and prevention training for 
     Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, and detailees 
     of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
     thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, 
     to amend the enforcement process under the Office of 
     Congressional Workplace Rights for covered discrimination and 
     covered harassment complaints, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 2237. A bill to amend the Federal Financial Institutions 
     Examination Council Act of 1978 to improve the examination of 
     depository institutions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 2238. A bill to amend the Ohio & Erie Canal National 
     Heritage Canalway Act of 1996 to repeal the funding 
     limitation; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. STABENOW:
       S. 2239. A bill to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to improve the scheduling of 
     appointments, the accountability of third party 
     administrators, and payment to providers under such Act, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 2240. A bill to direct the Election Assistance 
     Commission to carry out a pilot program under which the 
     Commission shall provide funds to local educational agencies 
     for initiatives to provide voter registration information to 
     secondary school students in the 12th grade; to the Committee 
     on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. KING:
       S. 2241. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act by clarifying that State Exchanges are 
     prohibited from imposing fees or assessments on issuers of 
     excepted benefits and standalone dental plans not sold 
     through an Exchange; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



