

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7296-S7297]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 2136. A bill to expand the monthly payments that may be 
     eligible for public service loan forgiveness; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education , Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Hoeven):
       S. 2137. A bill to amend the Rural Development Act of 1972 
     to improve access to grants for evidence-based substance use 
     disorder treatment services in rural areas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 2138. A bill to authorize the creation of a commission 
     to develop voluntary accessibility guidelines for electronic 
     instructional materials and related technologies used in 
     postsecondary education, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr. Kaine, Mrs. Capito, 
             Mr. Casey, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Warner, Mr. 
             Carper, Mr. Coons, and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 2139. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     address critical conservation conditions under the regional 
     conservation partnership program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. RISCH:
       S. 2140. A bill to provide for an exchange of Federal land 
     and non-Federal land in the State of Idaho, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Murkowski, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Paul, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Heller, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Menendez, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Franken, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Coons, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Booker, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Brown, Mr. Kennedy, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 2141. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     reform procedures for determinations on disposition of 
     charges and the convening of courts-martial for certain 
     offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. KING:
       S. 2142. A bill to amend the Energy Policy and Conservation 
     Act to establish the CHP Technical Assistance Partnership 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Casey, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Udall, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Carper, Mr. Reed, Mr. Coons, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Harris, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
             Hirono, and Mr. Markey):
       S. 2143. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to strengthen protections for employees wishing to advocate 
     for improved wages, hours, or other terms or conditions of 
     employment, to expand coverage under such Act, to provide a 
     process for achieving initial collective bargaining 
     agreements, and to provide for stronger remedies for 
     interference with these rights, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Reed, Ms. Hirono, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Markey, Ms. Harris, Mr. Whitehouse, and Ms. Cortez 
             Masto):
       S. 2144. A bill to provide a process for granting lawful 
     permanent resident status to aliens from certain countries 
     who meet specified eligibility requirements; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Franken, Mr. Markey, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Hirono, 
             and Mr. Booker):
       S. 2145. A bill to prohibit the United States Government 
     from barring refugees from entering the United States based 
     on their country of origin; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Heinrich, 
             Mr. Merkley, Ms. Warren, Ms. Harris, Ms. Cantwell, 
             and Mr. Markey):
       S. 2146. A bill to extend the full Federal medical 
     assistance percentage to urban Indian organizations; to the 
     Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Manchin, 
             Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Franken, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Donnelly, and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 2147. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund to establish a 
     Pension Rehabilitation Administration within the Department 
     of the Treasury to make loans to multiemployer defined 
     benefit plans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Cardin, Mr. Coons, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Franken, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2148. A bill to authorize dedicated domestic terrorism 
     offices within the Department of Homeland Security, the 
     Department

[[Page S7297]]

     of Justice, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to 
     analyze and monitor domestic terrorist activity and require 
     the Federal Government to take steps to prevent domestic 
     terrorism; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 2149. A bill to make a technical correction to the 
     provision of law authorizing a withdrawal and reservation of 
     public land at Limestone Hills Training Area, Montana; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
       S. 2150. A bill to improve requirements for entering into 
     commerce of imitation firearms, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. HOEVEN:
       S. 2151. A bill to streamline the oil and gas permitting 
     process and to recognize fee ownership for certain oil and 
     gas drilling or spacing units, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Grassley, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Cornyn, and Mr. Toomey):
       S. 2152. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for assistance for victims of child pornography, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 2153. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to 
     establish electric vehicle weight limitations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 2154. A bill to approve the Kickapoo Tribe Water Rights 
     Settlement Agreement, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. Donnelly, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             Mr. Tester, Mr. Warner, Mr. Corker, Mr. Scott, Mr. 
             Cotton, Mr. Rounds, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Perdue, Mr. 
             Manchin, Mr. Tillis, Mr. King, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             Kaine, Mr. Moran, Mr. Peters, Mr. Risch, and Mr. 
             Bennet):
       S. 2155. A bill to promote economic growth, provide 
     tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Burr):
       S. 2156. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide fairness in hospital payments under the 
     Medicare program; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. King, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Franken, Ms. Hassan, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 2157. A bill to require drug manufacturers to disclose 
     the prices of prescription drugs in any direct-to-consumer 
     advertising and marketing to practitioners of a drug; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 2158. A bill to amend the Foreign Intelligence 
     Surveillance Act of 1978 to clarify and improve the 
     procedures and accountability for authorizing certain 
     acquisitions of foreign intelligence, to extend title VII of 
     such Act, to ensure that the barriers to sharing critical 
     foreign intelligence among the intelligence community that 
     existed before September 11, 2001, are not reimposed, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. 
             Harris, and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 2159. A bill to require covered harassment and covered 
     discrimination awareness and prevention training for Members, 
     officers, employees, interns, fellows, and detailees of 
     Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
     thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, 
     to amend the enforcement process under the Office of 
     Congressional Workplace Rights for covered harassment and 
     covered discrimination complaints, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Risch, and Mr. Crapo):
       S. 2160. A bill to establish a pilot program under the 
     Chief of the Forest Service may use alternative dispute 
     resolution in lieu of judicial review of certain projects; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



