

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4823]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           227TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD

  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, on August 4, the U.S. Coast Guard will 
celebrate its 227th anniversary. On this special occasion, I want to 
commend the men and women of the Coast Guard for their valiant service 
on, under, and over our Nation's high seas and waters.
  They have a proud history.
  Most Americans know the Coast Guard for its orange and white 
helicopters, fast small boats, cutters, and rescue swimmers, but they 
probably don't know that the Coast Guard is one of our country's oldest 
institutions of the U.S. Government.
  On August 4, 1790, President George Washington signed the Tariff Act, 
authorizing construction of the first 10 cutters of what would 
eventually become the Coast Guard. They were known as the revenue 
cutters, and their original mission was to enforce tariffs and trade 
laws and to prevent smuggling. For more than a hundred years, the 
cutters and their crew operated under the names Revenue Marine Service 
and the Revenue Cutter Service. Not until 1915, when Congress merged 
the Revenue Cutter Service and the U.S. Life-Saving Service, did the 
Coast Guard gets its name.
  Over time, the Coast Guard has become synonymous with saving those in 
peril on the sea. Their wide red bar and narrow blue bar, canted at 64 
degrees, will always be a sign of assistance to mariners in danger.
  Today, in times of peace, the Coast Guard operates as a part of the 
Department of Homeland Security, performing its 11 critical, statutory 
missions.
  Right now, there are courageous young men and women aboard buoy 
tenders and icebreakers, ensuring our waterways remain open for 
commerce. Fast response cutters patrol the seas, enforcing the law and 
conducting search-and-rescue missions. Small boat stations enforce our 
laws while educating the public on safe-boating practices. As a ready 
and capable partner to a multitude of Federal, State, and local 
agencies, the Coast Guard does so much more, from responding to oil 
spills to combating drug trafficking.
  In times of war or at the direction of the President, the Coast Guard 
valiantly serves as part of the Navy Department.
  As you can see, the Coast Guard is a small but mighty organization. 
As ranking member of the Commerce Committee, I have had the privilege 
to meet many of the men and women of our Coast Guard and see their 
valuable work firsthand.
  Through all the passing decades, some things about the Coast Guard 
have always been the same: the service's proud tradition and the skill 
and professionalism of its men and women whose sacrifices contribute to 
protecting our national security. The Coast Guard's core values of 
honor, respect, and devotion to duty are evident in everything it does. 
As the Coast Guard motto says, Semper Paratus, it is always ready for 
the call.
  I want to congratulate and express our sincere gratitude to the men 
and women of the Coast Guard on 227 outstanding years of exemplary 
service to our Nation.

                          ____________________



