

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9849]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          HONORING PAUL WENGER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Denham) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to honor a true friend and 
advocate of agriculture. For the past 8 years, Paul Wenger has led the 
California Farm Bureau with passion and dedication, ensuring that one 
of our State's most vital industries remains at the forefront 
worldwide. As a longtime native of California's Tenth District and the 
city of Modesto, Paul has consistently been engaged in making our 
community a better place.
  As a third-generation farmer, Paul grows almonds and walnuts on the 
family farm, which includes property purchased by his grandfather in 
1910. His farming operation also includes a marketing component for 
processed almonds and walnuts through his Wood Colony Nut Company.
  Paul attended Modesto Junior College, or MJC, before transferring to 
Cal Poly San Luis Obispo, where he earned a degree in animal science.
  From 1990 to 1994, he served as president of the Stanislaus County 
Farm Bureau. Three years later, Paul became a statewide officer, when 
he was elected second vice president. He was then elected first vice 
president in 2005. He also served as a member of the Bureau's board of 
directors and chaired its water advisory committee and water 
development task force.
  Since 2009, Paul has served as president of the statewide California 
Farm Bureau. He has been on the front lines fighting for water rights 
and supplies, less government overreach, immigration reform, and 
sustainable working lands that are essential to keeping farming and 
ranching alive.
  In 2014, he received the Stanislaus Farm Bureau's Distinguished 
Service Award and has been long praised for his effective messaging, 
engagement, passion, and unwavering principles.
  Paul has successfully given California a strong voice at the national 
table by serving on the board of directors for the American Farm 
Bureau.
  Alongside his work to advocate for our region at the State and 
national level, Paul has dedicated countless hours to our local 
community as well. He served on the Salida Volunteer Fire Department, 
the Hart-Ransom School Board of Trustees, the Central Valley Farmland 
Trust Trustee Council, and the Stanislaus Land Trust and Agricultural 
Pavilion boards, just to name a few. He has been very active.
  Paul's tenure as president ends this year, but I am confident he will 
continue to play a vital role in the advocacy and evolution of our 
agriculture industry.
  I thank Paul for his hard work and continued friendship. I thank his 
wife, Deborah, his three sons, and their grandchildren for graciously 
sharing Paul with the farmers, ranchers, and our community, who have 
relied on his leadership.
  Mr. Speaker, please join me in honoring and recognizing my good 
friend for his unwavering leadership, accomplishments, and 
contributions on behalf of the agriculture industry.

                          ____________________



