

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5886-S5887]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.
  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, supra.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day 
health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 682

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 682, a bill to amend title 
31, United States Code, to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
provide for the purchase of paper United States savings bonds with tax 
refunds.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 792

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 792, a bill to 
amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to establish an H-2B 
temporary non-agricultural work visa program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 830

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 830, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the coordination of 
programs to prevent and treat obesity, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 873

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 873, a bill to amend section 
8433 of title 5, United States Code, to provide for flexibility in 
making withdrawals from the Thrift Savings Fund.


                                 S. 935

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 935, a bill to amend the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 to permit Governors of States to regulate 
intrastate endangered species and intrastate threatened species, to 
amend the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to permit the taking of certain 
black vultures and ravens, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 985

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 985, a bill to prohibit 
the Secretary of the Interior from revising the approved oil and gas 
leasing program for fiscal years 2017 through 2022.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1028, a bill to 
provide for the establishment and maintenance of a National Family 
Caregiving Strategy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1254

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1254, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand the small employer 
health insurance credit.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act 
of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                                S. 1754

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1754, a bill 
to reauthorize

[[Page S5887]]

section 340H of the Public Health Service Act to continue to encourage 
the expansion, maintenance, and establishment of approved graduate 
medical residency programs at qualified teaching health centers, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1774, a bill to provide protections for workers with 
respect to their right to select or refrain from selecting 
representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1781

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1781, a bill to 
reauthorize grant programs to improve the prevention, investigation, 
and prosecution of economic, high technology, Internet, and other white 
collar crimes.


                                S. 1783

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1783, a bill to 
amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each State 
to implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years of age 
may apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in the 
State, to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants to 
States to increase the involvement of minors in public election 
activities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1808, a bill to 
extend temporarily the Federal Perkins Loan program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1816

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1816, a bill to 
amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to enhance fraud alert procedures 
and provide free access to credit freezes, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1823

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) and the Senator 
from Arizona (Mr. Flake) were added as cosponsors of S. 1823, a bill to 
amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act to clarify that houses of worship are eligible for certain disaster 
relief and emergency assistance on terms equal to other eligible 
private nonprofit facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, supra.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the 
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) were added as cosponsors of S. 1829, a bill to amend title 
V of the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, Infant, and Early 
Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the 
Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from Washington (Ms. 
Cantwell) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 250, a resolution 
condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's Rohingya 
population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active role in 
ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                              S. RES. 265

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 265, a resolution designating 
September 22, 2017, as ``National Falls Prevention Awareness Day'' to 
raise awareness and encourage the prevention of falls among older 
adults.

                          ____________________



