

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 155 (Wednesday, September 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 155 (Wednesday, September 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7587-H7588]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. CARDENAS:
       H.R. 3845. A bill to establish a grant program to 
     incentivize States to reduce prison populations, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio:
       H.R. 3846. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to 
     require payment to counties of a portion of certain revenues 
     received by the United States under Federal oil and gas 
     leases, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Cole, and Mrs. 
             Torres):
       H.R. 3847. A bill to revise the Yurok reservation, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
       H.R. 3848. A bill to reform our government, reduce the grip 
     of special interest, and return our democracy to the American 
     people by increasing transparency and oversight of our 
     elections and government, reforming public financing for 
     Presidential and Congressional elections, and requiring 
     States to conduct Congressional redistricting through 
     independent commissions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, Ways and Means, Financial 
     Services, Oversight and Government Reform, and Science, 
     Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for herself, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Ms. Bass, and Mrs. Love):
       H.R. 3849. A bill to extend certain provisions of the 
     Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act until September 30, 
     2030, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 3850. A bill to direct the Federal Trade Commission to 
     establish labels that may be used as a voluntary means of 
     indicating to consumers the extent to which products are of 
     United States origin, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself, Mr. Engel, Mr. Hultgren, and 
             Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 3851. A bill to amend the State Department Basic 
     Authorities Act of 1956 to provide for rewards for the arrest 
     or conviction of certain foreign nationals who have committed 
     genocide or war crimes, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Soto, and Mr. Gutierrez):
       H.R. 3852. A bill to permit the waiver of Jones Act 
     requirements for humanitarian relief efforts; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 3853. A bill to provide for nuclear weapons abolition 
     and economic conversion in accordance with District of 
     Columbia Initiative Measure Number 37 of 1992, while ensuring 
     environmental restoration and clean-energy conversion; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Scott of Virginia, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 3854. A bill to provide that the Executive Order 
     entitled ``Establishing a Federal Flood Risk Management 
     Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and Considering 
     Stakeholder Input'' shall have the force and effect of law; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Lipinski, 
             and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 3855. A bill to require a report on significant 
     security risks of the national electric grid and the 
     potential effect of such security risks on the readiness of 
     the Armed Forces; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 3856. A bill to reinstate reporting requirements 
     related to United States-Hong Kong relations; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself, Mr. Barr, Mr. Messer, Mr. 
             Trott, Mr. Posey, Mr. Williams, Mr. Budd, Mr. 
             Hollingsworth, and Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee):
       H.R. 3857. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to establish standards of conduct for brokers and 
     dealers that are in the best interest of their retail 
     customers; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and Education 
     and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Evans, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Norton, Mr. Raskin, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Huffman, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Barragan, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Nolan, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Blunt Rochester, 
             Mr. Gallego, Mr. Rush, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Sires, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. David Scott 
             of Georgia, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Richmond, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Suozzi, Mr. Correa, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Welch, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Thompson of California, Mrs. Beatty, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Bass, and Mr. Cardenas):
       H.R. 3858. A bill making supplemental appropriations for 
     fiscal year 2017 for the TIGER Discretionary Grant program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, 
     and in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Evans, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Norton, Mr. Raskin, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Huffman, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Barragan, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Nolan, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Blunt Rochester, 
             Mr. Gallego, Mr. Rush, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Sires, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. David Scott 
             of Georgia, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Richmond, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Suozzi, Mr. Correa, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Cohen, and 
             Ms. Slaughter):

[[Page H7588]]

  

       H.R. 3859. A bill making supplemental appropriations for 
     fiscal year 2017 for the Drinking Water State Revolving 
     Funds, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Appropriations, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Mr. Massie, Mr. Pocan, and 
             Mr. Jones):
       H. Con. Res. 81. Concurrent resolution directing the 
     President pursuant to section 5(c) of the War Powers 
     Resolution to remove United States Armed Forces from 
     unauthorized hostilities in the Republic of Yemen; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Mr. Takano, 
             Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Lee, and Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard):
       H. Res. 541. A resolution recognizing the achievements of 
     Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving 
     Institutions on the 10th anniversary of their establishment; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H. Res. 542. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week of October 1 through 7, 2017, as 
     ``Latex Allergy Awareness Week''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY:
       H. Res. 543. A resolution congratulating Northeastern 
     Illinois University on the sesquicentennial of the 
     University; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



