

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8253-S8254]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE

  At 10:10 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 1159. An act to provide for continuing cooperation 
     between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and 
     the Israel Space Agency, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 4015. An act to improve the quality of proxy advisory 
     firms for the protection of investors and the U.S. economy, 
     and in the public interest, by fostering accountability, 
     transparency, responsiveness, and competition in the proxy 
     advisory firm industry.


                         Enrolled Bills Signed

  At 12:34 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the Speaker has 
signed the following enrolled bills:

       S. 1536. An act to designate a human trafficking prevention 
     coordinator and to expand the scope of activities authorized 
     under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's 
     outreach and education program to include human trafficking 
     prevention activities, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 1. An act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
     titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget 
     for fiscal year 2018.

  The enrolled bills were subsequently signed by the President pro 
tempore (Mr. Hatch).
                                  ____

  At 6 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, without amendment:

       S. 1393. An act to streamline the process by which active 
     duty military, reservists, and veterans receive commercial 
     driver's licenses.
       S. 1532. An act to disqualify from operating a commercial 
     motor vehicle for life an individual who uses a commercial 
     motor vehicle in committing a felony involving human 
     trafficking.
       S. 1766. An act to reauthorize the SAFER Act of 2013, and 
     for other purposes.

  The message also announced that the House has passed the following 
bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the Senate:

       H.R. 4641. An act to authorize the President to award the 
     Medal of Honor to John L. Canley for acts of valor during the 
     Vietnam War while a member of the Marine Corps.
       H.R. 4667. An act making further supplemental 
     appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, 
     for disaster assistance for Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and 
     Maria, and calendar year 2017 wildfires, and for other 
     purposes.

  The message further announced the House agreed to the following 
concurrent resolution, without amendment:

       S. Con. Res. 31. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of the rotunda of the Capitol for a ceremony to award the 
     Congressional Gold Medal to Bob Dole.


[[Page S8254]]


  The message also announced that the House agreed to the amendment of 
the Senate to the bill (H.R. 1370) to amend the Homeland Security Act 
of 2002 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue 
Department of Homeland Security-wide guidance and develop training 
programs as part of the Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign, 
and for other purposes, with an amendment, in which it requests the 
concurrence of the Senate.
  The message further announced that pursuant to section 5 of the 
Frederick Douglass Bicentennial Commission Act (Public Law 115-77), and 
the order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Speaker appoints the 
following Member of the House of Representatives to the Frederick 
Douglass Bicentennial Commission: Mr. Harris of Maryland; And from 
private life: Ms. Sylvia Quinton of Mardela Springs, Maryland and Dr. 
C. James Trotman of West Chester, Pennsylvania.


                          Enrolled Bill Signed

  At 8:41 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the Speaker 
pro tempore (Mr. Upton) has signed the following enrolled bill:

       H.R. 1370. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue 
     Department of Homeland Security-wide guidance and develop 
     training programs as part of the Department of Homeland 
     Security Blue Campaign, and for other purposes.

  The enrolled bill was subsequently signed by the Acting president pro 
tempore (Mr. Kennedy).

                          ____________________



