

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8660-H8661]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
       H.R. 4294. A bill to amend the Financial Stability Act of 
     2010 to provide a criminal penalty for unauthorized 
     disclosures of certain individually identifiable information 
     by officers or employees of a Federal department or agency; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Cole, Mr. Allen, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, and Mr. Grothman):
       H.R. 4295. A bill to provide for enhanced Federal, State, 
     and local assistance in the enforcement of the immigration 
     laws, to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act, to 
     authorize appropriations to carry out the State Criminal 
     Alien Assistance Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself and Mr. Meeks):
       H.R. 4296. A bill to place requirements on operational risk 
     capital requirements for banking organizations established by 
     an appropriate Federal banking agency; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself and Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 4297. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide information regarding vaccines for 
     seniors as part of the Medicare & You handbook and to ensure 
     that the treatment of cost sharing for vaccines under 
     Medicare part D is consistent with the

[[Page H8661]]

     treatment of vaccines under Medicare part B, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 4298. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     allow grazing as a mid-contract management practice in the 
     conservation reserve program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself, Mr. Thornberry, and 
             Mr. Wilson of South Carolina):
       H.R. 4299. A bill to provide for the indefinite duration of 
     certain military land withdrawals, to improve the management 
     of lands currently subject to such withdrawals and to make 
     the management of such lands more transparent, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. HANABUSA (for herself and Mr. Bishop of Utah):
       H.R. 4300. A bill to authorize Pacific Historic Parks to 
     establish a commemorative display to honor members of the 
     United States Armed Forces who served in the Pacific Theater 
     of World War II, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NORMAN (for himself, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Sanford, 
             Mr. Rice of South Carolina, Mr. Clyburn, and Mr. 
             Gowdy):
       H.R. 4301. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 201 Tom Hall Street in Fort 
     Mill, South Carolina, as the ``J. Elliott Williams Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 4302. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     create congressional accountability for emergency lending 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 4303. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to prohibit funding under the Edward 
     Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance grant program and the 
     Public Safety and Community Policing grant program to be 
     provided to law enforcement agencies that use license plate 
     readers unless certain conditions are met; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. 
             Huffman, and Mr. Scott of Virginia):
       H.R. 4304. A bill to provide whistleblower protections to 
     certain workers in the offshore oil and gas industry; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee:
       H.R. 4305. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act 
     to prohibit payments of premium subsidy for harvest price 
     policies; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself and Mr. LoBiondo):
       H.R. 4306. A bill to reauthorize and amend the National Sea 
     Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself and Miss Rice of 
             New York):
       H.R. 4307. A bill to provide for temporary emergency impact 
     aid for local educational agencies; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Mr. O'Halleran):
       H.R. 4308. A bill to provide for grants to finance 
     broadband transmission in certain rural areas; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 4309. A bill to codify Executive Order 13771, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Biggs, and Mr. Norman):
       H.R. 4310. A bill to amend section 412(a)(2) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to require ratification of a 
     plan with respect to a refugee by the legislature of a State 
     before the refugee may be initially placed or resettled in 
     the State, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. PITTENGER (for himself, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Smith of 
             New Jersey, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Gallagher, Mrs. Roby, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Heck, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Sam 
             Johnson of Texas, and Mr. Culberson):
       H.R. 4311. A bill to modernize and strengthen the Committee 
     on Foreign Investment in the United States to more 
     effectively guard against the risk to the national security 
     of the United States posed by certain types of foreign 
     investment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Energy and Commerce, Foreign Affairs, Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select), Armed Services, and the Budget, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Wenstrup, 
             Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Latta, Mr. Johnson of 
             Ohio, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Davidson, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Turner, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Joyce of Ohio, and Mr. Stivers):
       H.R. 4312. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure the Secretary of Veterans Affairs permits the display 
     of Battlefield Crosses in national cemeteries; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ:
       H.R. 4313. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     provide protections for active duty military consumers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. TENNEY:
       H.R. 4314. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for the temporary halt in pension payments for 
     Members of Congress sentenced for certain offenses, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. VARGAS (for himself and Mr. Poliquin):
       H.R. 4315. A bill to exclude from consideration as income 
     under the United States Housing Act of 1937 certain veterans 
     compensation and pensions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. WALZ (for himself and Mr. Fortenberry):
       H.R. 4316. A bill to provide for the reform and 
     continuation of the beginning farmer and rancher program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Appropriations, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 4317. A bill to authorize the Federal Energy 
     Regulatory Commission to issue an order continuing a stay of 
     a hydroelectric license for the Mahoney Lake hydroelectric 
     project in the State of Alaska, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McGOVERN (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Ms. Granger, and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H. Con. Res. 91. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that public health professionals should be 
     commended for their dedication and continued service to the 
     United States on ``Public Health Thank You Day'', November 
     20, 2017; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



