

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10154-H10155]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 KEEP AMERICA'S REFUGES OPERATIONAL ACT

  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 3979) to amend the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 to 
reauthorize the volunteer services, community partnership, and refuge 
education programs of the National Wildlife Refuge System, and for 
other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3979

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Keep America's Refuges 
     Operational Act''.

     SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE SYSTEM 
                   VOLUNTEER SERVICES, COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP, AND 
                   REFUGE EDUCATION PROGRAMS.

       Section 7 of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 
     742f) is amended in subsection (g), by striking ``2011 
     through 2014'' and inserting ``2018 through 2022''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. Wittman) and the gentlewoman from Hawaii (Ms. Hanabusa) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Virginia.


                             General Leave

  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Virginia?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3979, the Keep America's Refuges Operational Act, 
reauthorizes the National Wildlife Refuge System volunteer, community 
partnership, and education programs for fiscal years 2018 through 2022.
  I am proud to have joined with my good friend from New York (Mr. 
Jeffries) to support conservation efforts at our Nation's wildlife 
refuges in a way that is also fiscally responsible.
  Each year the refuge system's volunteer, community partnership, and 
education programs facilitate more than 1.4 million hours of service 
from more than 40,000 volunteers in support of our Nation's wildlife 
refuge system. The valuable contributions of these volunteers help 
maintain our Nation's 566 refuges, 14 of which I am proud to say are in 
the Commonwealth of Virginia.
  These programs help ensure that Americans can visit, explore, fish, 
hunt, and study wildlife for generations to come. As a kid, I spent 
most of my time outdoors, and today, I still frequently visit the 
Rappahannock River Wildlife Refuge in my district. I have long 
appreciated the value of nature and wildlife in our society as well as 
the importance of environmental stewardship.
  Volunteers perform a wide variety of tasks to assist with our refuge 
operations. Examples of these tasks include habitat improvement 
projects, laboratory research assistance, leading refuge tours, 
conducting fish and wildlife population surveys, and much more. All of 
these tasks help the Fish and Wildlife Service more efficiently fulfill 
its mission while also providing an opportunity for individuals and 
groups to contribute to the preservation and protection of our Nation's 
wildlife and public lands.

                              {time}  1715

  H.R. 3979 reauthorizes the cost-efficient resource that helps the 
U.S. Fish

[[Page H10155]]

and Wildlife Service fulfill its mission to protect and preserve the 
Nation's fish and wildlife. These volunteer programs are very popular 
with folks throughout the country, with more applicants than available 
volunteer slots.
  This legislation has broad support from several recreational and 
conservation organizations, as well as bipartisan support across the 
Congress.
  I thank Chairman Bishop for moving this legislation and, again, 
extend my great appreciation to Mr. Jeffries for sponsoring this 
important legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the measure, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. HANABUSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Jeffries).
  Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentlewoman from 
Hawaii (Ms. Hanabusa) for yielding, as well as for her leadership. I 
also thank Chairman Bishop for his leadership in helping to move this 
legislation forward.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3979, the Keep America's 
Refuges Operational Act, a bipartisan bill that will reauthorize the 
volunteer, community partnership, and education program for our 
National Wildlife Refuge System.
  Let me begin by thanking my good friend, the distinguished gentleman 
from the Commonwealth of Virginia (Mr. Wittman), who has partnered with 
me on this legislation and is a strong champion for our country's 
refuges.
  This commonsense, bipartisan legislation will support conservation 
efforts at our Nation's refuges in a way that saves taxpayers dollars 
and stimulates jobs and economic opportunity.
  Our National Wildlife Refuge System is comprised of 566 refuges 
located in every U.S. State and territory. Refuges make up over 800 
million acres of habitat dedicated to the conservation of fish and 
wildlife.
  Each year, 47 million Americans visit refuges, which help to support 
local economies by generating over $2 billion in revenue and more than 
35,000 local jobs. People visit refuges from all over the country to 
explore, hunt, fish, and experience America's natural beauty.
  Refuges also help to mold the next generation of conservationists and 
outdoor enthusiasts by providing learning experiences and cherished 
memories for America's families. Refuges have a tremendous impact for 
communities all over America, even in my hometown of Brooklyn, New 
York.
  But this wouldn't be possible without help from dedicated volunteers, 
who donate 20 percent of the total service work at our refuges. They 
support full-time staff by helping to operate visitor centers; conduct 
fish and wildlife population surveys; maintain visitor structures, 
roads, and paths; fight invasive species; and protect native plants and 
animals.
  While volunteers may vary in age, background, and skill set, what 
they all have in common is their dedication to preserving our country's 
natural beauty so that we can all enjoy it for years to come.
  Advancing this legislation has been a collaborative process, and I 
greatly appreciate the hard work of Mr. Wittman and Members on both 
sides of the aisle. Through this bipartisan legislation, we will 
demonstrate the economic benefits to be gained from protecting 
America's natural beauty and being good stewards of the environment God 
has given to us all.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to support H.R. 3979.
  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. HANABUSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, the passage of H.R. 3979 extends the authorization of 
volunteer and educational programs on the National Wildlife Refuge 
System administered by the Fish and Wildlife Service.
  This bill highlights the importance of community partnerships and 
volunteers and the value they bring to our public lands. In 2016, 
refuge volunteers donated 1.3 million hours, which equals $30.6 million 
of labor value.
  Volunteers are critical for the daily operation of the National 
Wildlife Refuge System and other Federal lands. I know, in many cases, 
visitors would not have access to these unique places without the 
participation of volunteers and other partners.
  I serve as ranking member of the Federal Lands Subcommittee, where we 
held a hearing on this bill in November and heard testimony from the 
National Wildlife Refuge Association about the importance of sustaining 
the volunteer program. I am pleased we can work in a bipartisan fashion 
to move this important message through the House.
  I commend the sponsor, Representative Jeffries of New York, for his 
hard work and dedication to this issue. This is a good bill, and I urge 
my colleagues to support its adoption.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, in closing, I echo the sentiment of my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle. This truly is what makes our Nation great: 
individuals willing to give of their time to work on these refuges.
  Many times, the ability to access those refuges is dependent upon 
those volunteers. We take a few resources and stretch them across the 
Nation on many of these refuge lands, and it is our volunteers who, 
many times, help in maintaining these lands and making sure that there 
is access and making sure that people who come to visit understand the 
true value and nature of the resources that are there.
  It is, truly, I think, a great example of what makes our country 
great: people willing to put their time and effort into these refuges 
and making sure they, indeed, can be enjoyed by all. This is why I 
think this bill enjoys the support of folks on both sides of the aisle. 
This truly is, I think, an issue that should bring us all together.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Wittman) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 3979, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



