

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7158-S7159]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS

                                 ______
                                 

SENATE RESOLUTION 326--RECOGNIZING THE CREW OF THE SAN ANTONIO ROSE, B-
17F, WHO SACRIFICED THEIR LIVES DURING WORLD WAR II, AND HONORING THEIR 
  MEMORY DURING THE WEEK OF THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THAT TRAGIC EVENT

  Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. 
Cruz, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Daines, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Udall, 
Mr. Tester, and Mrs. Gillibrand) submitted the following resolution; 
which was referred to the Committee on Armed Services:

                              S. Res. 326

       Whereas, in 1943, the ongoing fighting against the Japanese 
     in the Pacific during World War II was treacherous, a 
     decisive outcome hung in the balance, and every victory 
     against the Japanese contributed to the ultimate success in 
     the region;
       Whereas, on January 5, 1943, six B-17s of the 43rd 
     Bombardment Group and six B-24s of the 90th Bombardment Group 
     left from Port Moresby, New Guinea, to bomb shipping at 
     Rabaul, New Britain, to break up a major Japanese 
     reinforcement convoy;
       Whereas, with the San Antonio Rose, B-17F (No. 41-24458), 
     in the lead, the twelve bombers of the anti-shipping strike 
     proceeded to Rabaul splitting the formation to target 
     shipping in Blanche Bay, Simpson Harbor, Keravia Bay, and 
     Vunapope;
       Whereas the American attack surprised the Japanese, and 
     they did not fire anti-aircraft artillery until after the 
     American bombs had been successfully dropped on their 
     targets;
       Whereas, when bombers rejoined formation, the San Antonio 
     Rose was no longer in the lead and did not rejoin the 
     formation;
       Whereas the San Antonio Rose was last reported to have 
     smoke trailing from the aircraft while being pursued by 
     Japanese fighters into the clouds heading south just east of 
     Vunakanau, New Britain Island, in what is now Papua New 
     Guinea;
       Whereas the San Antonio Rose was never sighted again;
       Whereas the crew onboard the San Antonio Rose were declared 
     missing in action on January 5, 1943 and subsequently 
     declared killed in action on December 12, 1945;
       Whereas the members of the crew of the San Antonio Rose 
     included--
       Pilot, Major Allen Lindberg, New York, New York
       Co-Pilot, Captain Benton H. Daniel, Hollis, Oklahoma
       Bombardier, 2nd Lieutenant Robert L. Hand, Fields Store, 
     Texas
       Navigator, 1st Lieutenant John W. Hanson, Missoula, Montana
       Engineer, Technical Sergeant Dennis T. Craig, New York, New 
     York
       Radio, Staff Sergeant Quentin W. Blakely, Washington, 
     District of Columbia
       Gunner, Sergeant Leslie A. Stewart, East Chicago, Illinois
       Gunner, Private First Class Leland W. Stone, Oakland, 
     California
       Gunner, Private First Class William G. Fraser, Jr., San 
     Antonio, Texas
       Observer, Lieutenant Colonel Jack W. Bleasdale, San 
     Fernando, California
       Observer, Brigadier General Kenneth N. Walker, Cerillos, 
     New Mexico; and

       Whereas the crew of the San Antonio Rose, including 
     Brigadier General Kenneth N.

[[Page S7159]]

     Walker, Medal of Honor recipient and highest ranking officer 
     missing in action from World War II, have never been 
     recovered and brought home to rest: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) recognizes that the heroic actions and selflessness of 
     the crew of the San Antonio Rose, B-17F (No. 41-24458), led 
     to lessons learned that directly impacted the success of 
     subsequent missions, including the Battle of the Bismarck 
     Sea;
       (2) commemorates the 75th anniversary of the loss of the 
     San Antonio Rose and its crew;
       (3) expresses gratitude to the Airmen who served aboard the 
     San Antonio Rose for their faithful service; and
       (4) honors the memory of the crew of the San Antonio Rose 
     with a pledge to never forget their sacrifice by encouraging 
     the continued search and recovery of their remains, and to 
     fulfill the promise to finally bring them home.

                          ____________________



