

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7444-H7446]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   RECOGNIZING THAT FOR 50 YEARS THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTH EAST ASIAN 
NATIONS HAS WORKED TOWARD STABILITY, PROSPERITY, AND PEACE IN SOUTHEAST 
                                  ASIA

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
agree to the resolution (H. Res. 311) recognizing that for 50 years the 
Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) has worked toward 
stability, prosperity, and peace in Southeast Asia, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
  The text of the resolution is as follows:

                              H. Res. 311

       Whereas on September 10, 1977, the United States and the 
     Association of Southeast Asian Nations (in this resolution 
     referred to as ``ASEAN'') established dialogue relations, 
     with 2017 marking the 40th anniversary of United States-ASEAN 
     relations;
       Whereas on August 8, 2017, ASEAN will celebrate fifty years 
     of regional cooperation towards greater stability, peace, and 
     prosperity in Southeast Asia;
       Whereas on April 29, 2008, the United States was the first 
     non-ASEAN country to appoint an ambassador to ASEAN and the 
     United States became the first dialogue partner to establish 
     a permanent mission to ASEAN in 2010;
       Whereas the United States committed in 2009 to hold an 
     annual United States-ASEAN Leaders' Meeting, and upgraded the 
     commitment in 2012 to an annual United States-ASEAN Summit;
       Whereas on April 20, 2017, Vice President Mike Pence met 
     with the ASEAN Secretary General and ASEAN Permanent 
     Representatives in Jakarta, Indonesia, and stated that the 
     United States-ASEAN relationship ``without a doubt has 
     benefitted both ASEAN and America--diplomatically, 
     economically, and from the standpoint of national security'';
       Whereas on February 16, 2016, at the Sunnylands Summit in 
     California, the United States and ASEAN reaffirmed their 
     shared commitment to maintain peace, security, and stability 
     throughout the region;
       Whereas in 2013 ASEAN, as a whole, was the seventh-largest 
     economy in the world with an annual Gross Domestic Product 
     (GDP) of $2.4 trillion, and is the United States' fourth-
     largest export market with total exports reaching 
     $102,000,000,000 in 2015;
       Whereas the United States and ASEAN have strong economic 
     ties, as the United States is the single largest investor in 
     ASEAN with accumulated United States foreign direct 
     investment totaling almost $226,000,000,000 as of 2014, and 
     economic relations with ASEAN supporting more than 500,000 
     jobs in the United States;
       Whereas the United States-ASEAN partnership is vital to the 
     security interests of the United States, as both the United 
     States and the members of ASEAN have a shared common interest 
     in a peaceful resolution of the South China Sea disputes and 
     achieving a denuclearized North Korea;
       Whereas on November 4, 2002, the Declaration on the Conduct 
     of Parties in the South China Sea was signed by all members 
     of ASEAN and the People's Republic of China, committing all 
     parties to ``exercise self-restraint in the conduct of 
     activities that would complicate or escalate disputes and 
     affect peace and stability'';
       Whereas ASEAN is a partner to the United States on key 
     transnational challenges, such as terrorism, violent 
     extremism, environmental degradation, energy, infectious 
     diseases, disarmament, proliferation of weapons of mass 
     destruction, cybersecurity, trafficking in persons, illicit 
     trafficking of wildlife and timber, and illegal, unregulated, 
     and unreported fishing; and
       Whereas the 2016 East Asia Summit in Vientiane adopted a 
     statement on nonproliferation that reaffirmed the United 
     States, ASEAN, and other Dialogue Partners' support for 
     efforts at the national, regional, and international level to 
     promote nuclear disarmament, nuclear nonproliferation, and 
     peaceful uses of nuclear energy, and reiterated the 
     importance of nuclear security to combating nuclear 
     terrorism: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
       (1) supports and affirms the elevation of the United 
     States-ASEAN relationship to a strategic partnership, and 
     reaffirms the United States commitment to promoting a rules-
     based order in the Asia-Pacific and economic growth, peace, 
     human rights and stability in Southeast Asia;
       (2) recognizes the value of ASEAN working with economic, 
     political, and security partners, such as Australia, Canada, 
     the European Union, India, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, the 
     Republic of Korea, and Taiwan both inside and outside of 
     Asia, to both strengthen existing initiatives such as the 
     United States-ASEAN Connect and to develop new initiatives 
     that address mutual strategic concerns;
       (3) encourages the enhancement of economic engagement 
     between the United States and ASEAN through the elimination 
     of trade barriers;
       (4) supports cooperation with ASEAN to implement practical 
     counter-terrorism and countering violent extremism measures, 
     including efforts to counter homegrown radicalization and 
     stem foreign fighter travel;
       (5) supports efforts by ASEAN member states and other 
     regional states, including the People's Republic of China, to 
     address maritime and territorial disputes in a constructive 
     manner and to pursue claims, through diplomacy and the use of 
     legitimate regional and international arbitration mechanisms, 
     consistent with international law, including through the 
     adoption of a code of conduct in the South China Sea to 
     further promote peace and stability in the region;
       (6) urges all parties to maritime and territorial disputes 
     in the Asia-Pacific region to--
       (A) exercise self-restraint in the conduct of activities 
     that would undermine stability or escalate disputes through 
     the use of coercion, intimidation, or military force; and
       (B) refrain from efforts to militarize uninhabited islands, 
     reefs, shoals, and other features, through actions including 
     the construction of new garrisons and facilities, and the 
     relocation of additional military personnel, materiel, or 
     equipment; and
       (7) reaffirms the commitment of the United States to 
     continue joint efforts with ASEAN to halt human smuggling and 
     trafficking in persons and urges ASEAN to make increased 
     efforts to create and strengthen regional mechanisms to 
     provide assistance and support to refugees and migrants.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentleman from New York (Mr. Engel) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.

[[Page H7445]]

  



                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include any extraneous material in the Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to recognize Congressman Joaquin Castro and 
Congresswoman Ann Wagner for introducing this timely measure.
  This is an important but, frankly, often overlooked part of the 
world. This is Southeast Asia.
  Mr. Speaker, Southeast Asian nations came together 50 years ago to 
promote regional cooperation. Their goal was to achieve greater 
stability and peace and prosperity by creating the Association of South 
East Asian Nations. We know this as ASEAN today.
  This year marks their 50th anniversary and the 40th anniversary of 
relations between the United States and ASEAN.
  This year, President Trump will visit the region for the first time 
in November for the East Asia and ASEAN summits in the Philippines, and 
the local leadership are going to be meeting in Vietnam.
  Today, ASEAN is a force for peace and prosperity in the world, and 
the relationship the U.S. has with ASEAN has benefited both sides 
diplomatically, economically, and in global security.
  ASEAN is the fourth largest goods export market for the United 
States, and we are ASEAN's fourth largest trading partner. As the 
second fastest-growing economy in Asia, with a combined economy of $2.5 
trillion, the importance of the ASEAN market for the United States is 
considerable.
  Mr. Speaker, we are working with ASEAN to address security challenges 
and threats, especially in the fight against terrorism, with the 
recognition now of the emergence of ISIS fighting forces in the region. 
Last month, Secretary of State Tillerson voiced support for increased 
cooperation on border security, information sharing to track 
individuals, and routing out and finding the source of terror financing 
networks, finding their safe havens.
  With so many challenges in the region today, as we look at the 
democratic backsliding in Cambodia, the plight of the Rohingya in 
Burma, it is more important than ever that we engage Southeast Asian 
nations in the ASEAN grouping to solve regional problems.
  We must also cooperate with ASEAN on the threat of North Korea and 
have better coordination on maritime activities with regard to 
security, environmental impact, and border and fishing regulations.
  For all of these reasons today, the House of Representatives 
reaffirms the importance of the U.S.-ASEAN partnership and recommits to 
continuing engagement and cooperation.
  Passage of this resolution demonstrates our support for ASEAN as an 
institution and the United States' strategic relationship with 
Southeast Asian nations.
  I urge my colleagues to join us in supporting this measure.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1530

  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume, 
and I rise in support of this measure.
  Mr. Speaker, let me start by thanking the authors of this resolution, 
two valued members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Castro from 
Texas and Mrs. Wagner from Missouri.
  In addition to bringing this legislation forward, these two lawmakers 
established the first ever Congressional ASEAN Caucus. I am grateful 
for their leadership helping to advance American interests in the Asia 
Pacific.
  Part of ensuring America's strong role in that region is our work 
with ASEAN, the Association of South East Asian Nations. This 
organization has worked to promote stability, prosperity, and peace 
among the countries of Southeast Asia. It is in our own strategic 
interest to see stronger countries, closer partnership, healthier 
economies, so our own success in Asia is closely tied to the success of 
ASEAN and its members.
  This resolution underscores the accomplishments of ASEAN as it marks 
its 50th anniversary. It sends a signal to our partners and friends in 
Southeast Asia that the United States is committed to peace and 
prosperity in the region, and it puts Congress on record saying that, 
in this challenging time, the United States must remain engaged around 
the world, particularly in the Asia Pacific.
  The administration's budget proposed a 46 percent cut to assistance 
in East Asia and the Pacific. I think this would be a grave mistake. 
What kind of impact would that have on American-backed initiatives that 
are having a positive impact? What message does it send to the 
countries that we depend on as partners?
  Rather than drawing back, America should be even more engaged in the 
Asia Pacific. This measure reaffirms our commitment to America's 
leadership in the region.
  I want to end by thanking the authors, and I want to compliment 
Chairman Royce, who knows more about this region of the world than 
virtually anybody in Congress, and has been to that part of the world--
I have gone with him many times--and the United States Congress has 
shown the ability to work with countries for the betterment of their 
people, for the betterment of our relationship with them.
  Mr. Speaker, this measure reaffirms our commitment to America's 
leadership in the region. I thank the authors, I thank Chairman Royce, 
and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Wagner), an esteemed member of the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the primary cosponsor of this 
resolution.
  Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his leadership and 
support.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 311, the resolution I 
was honored to introduce with my colleague Representative Castro, to 
commemorate the Association of South East Asian Nations' 50th 
anniversary, and the 40th anniversary of U.S.-ASEAN relations.
  We intend for this resolution to raise awareness within and outside 
of Congress about Southeast Asia's critical role in the global order. 
Southeast Asia has tremendous cultural, political, historical, and 
religious diversity.
  The Association of South East Asian Nations, known as ASEAN, was 
formed in 1967, in part, to create a bulwark against communism in the 
region among the five founding nations.
  Today, ASEAN's goals have evolved, and the region is experiencing 
tremendous growth. ASEAN now includes 10 major countries in Southeast 
Asia, which together have established a major regional economic 
integration agenda.
  ASEAN is our fourth largest goods exports market. $102 billion of 
U.S. goods and services are exported to ASEAN, meaning this market 
rivals our $113 billion market in China.
  According to the ASEAN Matters for America report, 20 U.S. States 
send over $1 billion in goods exports to ASEAN annually, and over half 
of the U.S. congressional districts export over $100 million to ASEAN 
each year. These numbers are astounding, and they will only grow, Mr. 
Speaker.
  In January, I cofounded the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on ASEAN, 
along with my partner Representative Castro. The caucus acknowledges 
America's strategic partnership with ASEAN and attests that America 
must be the foremost trade and defense partner for ASEAN countries.
  H. Res. 311 was one of the caucus' first initiatives. The resolution 
encourages the enhancement of economic and defense cooperation with 
ASEAN. It reaffirms the U.S. commitment to continue joint efforts with 
ASEAN to halt human smuggling and human trafficking and urges ASEAN to 
improve assistance to refugees and migrants.
  Standing alongside our ASEAN peers is important this fall, given the 
rise of Chinese aggression in the South China Sea; the ethnic cleansing 
of Rohingya Muslims in Burma; the need to seriously engage ASEAN 
leaders on our North Korean efforts; the typhoon and flooding affecting 
the region; the enormous investment opportunities; and

[[Page H7446]]

the upcoming ASEAN summit that the President will attend in November.
  I am grateful that the Speaker and the chairman, Chairman Royce, 
support our efforts to engage ASEAN, and I look forward to watching H. 
Res. 311 pass the U.S. House of Representatives.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. Castro), who is the author of this legislation.
  Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Engel for 
yielding me this time and also thank Chairman Royce for all of his work 
in this region of the world.
  Representative Wagner and I cofounded the Congressional Caucus on 
ASEAN, the Association of South East Asian Nations, earlier this year 
to deepen the United States' and Congress' engagement with Southeast 
Asia.
  H. Res. 311, the resolution we are considering here today, 
commemorates the 50th anniversary of the founding of ASEAN. It also 
marks 40 years of relations between the United States and ASEAN.

  This measure highlights the work ASEAN has done towards improving 
stability, prosperity, and peace in Southeast Asia. It also speaks to 
the importance of continued security cooperation, economic partnership, 
and cultural engagement between the United States and ASEAN.
  ASEAN serves as an example of successful regional cooperation. The 
nations of Southeast Asia, despite distinct histories, cultures, and 
religions, have placed their faith in cooperation rather than conflict.
  U.S. security interests in Southeast Asia are wide-ranging and 
supported by many regional partners. Members of ASEAN have worked 
closely with the United States to address our mutual concerns.
  The member states of ASEAN also hold significant economic promise, 
and our economic relationship underpins much of U.S. engagement in the 
region.
  My home State of Texas, for example, exports over $13 billion worth 
of goods to ASEAN countries every year. These exports support over 
70,000 Texas jobs and over 500,000 jobs across the United States.
  The U.S.-ASEAN relationship is also built on history and cultural 
exchange. Millions of Americans can trace their family roots to 
countries of ASEAN, including 400,000 Texans. Language, literature, 
food, and music link our cultures across the ocean, set roots, and 
enrich both our societies.
  Mr. Speaker, for these reasons and many more, it is important that we 
recognize and commemorate the impact of ASEAN across the years.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Yoho), the chairman of the Foreign Affairs 
Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I also want to echo Chairman Royce's support 
of H. Res. 311, and I want to thank the ranking member, Mr. Engel; my 
colleagues, Mr. Castro and Mrs. Wagner, for bringing this resolution 
up, recognizing the 50th anniversary of the Association of South East 
Asian Nations and the 40th anniversary of U.S.-ASEAN ties.
  As chairman of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the 
Pacific, the block of 10 ASEAN members, we had a meeting earlier in the 
year. They said the primary reason ASEAN is successful is because of 
U.S. involvement. I think that speaks highly of U.S. foreign policy.
  The 10 members of ASEAN are some of the most dynamic nations in the 
world, and Southeast Asia's economic and strategic importance grows 
every day.
  As the chairman noted, ASEAN is our fourth largest trading partner 
and is the second fastest growing in Asia. With a combined population 
of over 600 million people and an economy of $2.5 trillion, the 
opportunity for U.S. industry is immense. As a security partner, ASEAN 
also is invaluable, recognizing that for the 50 years the Association 
of South East Asian Nations, ASEAN, has worked towards stability, 
prosperity, and peace in Southeast Asia.
  The grouping is strategically located astride some of the world's 
most critical sea lanes and shares the U.S. pursuit of regional 
stability through rules, order, and peaceful dispute settlements.
  This resolution rightly highlights enduring U.S. interests in 
Southeast Asia and conveys our commitment to stay engaged.
  Mr. Speaker, I again thank Representatives Wagner and Castro for 
introducing this measure. As the founding members of the ASEAN Caucus, 
their work on this bill underscores the centrality of ASEAN to 
Congress' foreign policy for Asia.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  The Asia Pacific presents the perfect case of what might happen if 
the United States withdraws from the world. In recent years, our focus 
there, especially working with ASEAN and its members, has really helped 
to promote growth and stability in that region of the world, to enhance 
human rights, and the rule of law.
  It is important for us to stay engaged. If we draw back, it is pretty 
clear that China would be happy to fill the void, and I guarantee the 
values we consider critical to foreign policy, democracy, justice, and 
equality would not be part of the agenda in Beijing. We need to stay 
engaged in Asia and around the world. We need to demonstrate that 
American leadership is a sure thing.
  The resolution before us today will provide much needed reassurance 
to our partners and friends in Southeast Asia. Even Vietnam works with 
us. I remember, and others here remember, when we had the Vietnam war. 
Now we have so many Vietnam Americans in our country, and they help to 
really be good citizens and really help to show why it is important for 
us to keep engaged in that part of the world.
  We will underscore the important role ASEAN stands to play, just as 
it has in the last 50 years. Again, it is important to reassure our 
partners and friends in Southeast Asia--I mentioned Vietnam, but all 
the other countries that belong to ASEAN.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support this measure. I thank Chairman 
Royce, I urge all Members to support it, and I yield back the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of 
my time.
  The first point I would make is I think our ranking member, Mr. Eliot 
Engel, makes a very strong point about the importance of engagement.
  I think, as a second point, U.S.-ASEAN engagement has trended up in 
recent years. I think it remains strong. I think it has a bright 
outlook. In 2015, the U.S.-ASEAN relationship was elevated to a 
strategic partnership, an important step by the U.S.
  2016 marked two important firsts: the first U.S.-ASEAN summit at 
Sunnylands, and the first ever visit of a sitting U.S. President to 
Laos. As an important economic and security partner, ASEAN shares the 
U.S. pursuit of regional stability through rules, through order, 
through the peaceful dispute settlement process, as our ranking member 
pointed out. This resolution signals our resolve to maintain and deepen 
our collaboration with our friends and allies in Southeast Asia.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all of our colleagues here to join us in support 
of this resolution, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) that the House suspend the rules 
and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 311, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



