

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8046-S8047]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 45

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 45, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to increase penalties for individuals 
who illegally reenter the United States after being removed and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to 
provide immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose 
potential examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with disabilities to 
save additional amounts in their ABLE accounts above the current annual 
maximum contribution if they work and earn income.


                                 S. 946

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. 
Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of S. 946, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice 
Outreach Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
involved veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend 
the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act 
does not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of 
interactive computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil 
law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) and the Senator from Arizona (Mr. Flake) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1774, a bill to provide protections for workers with 
respect to their right to select or refrain from selecting 
representation by a labor organization.

[[Page S8047]]

  



                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2152, a bill to amend title 18, United States 
Code, to provide for assistance for victims of child pornography, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2157

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2157, a bill to 
require drug manufacturers to disclose the prices of prescription drugs 
in any direct-to-consumer advertising and marketing to practitioners of 
a drug.


                                S. 2219

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2219, a 
bill to reduce the number of preventable deaths and injuries caused by 
underride crashes, to improve motor carrier and passenger motor vehicle 
safety, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2226

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 2226, a bill to prohibit recipients of disaster recovery relief 
assistance from the Department of Housing and Urban Development from 
penalizing applicants that declined assistance from the Small Business 
Administration.

                          ____________________



