

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H10186]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                       RECOGNIZING DIANE WHITAKER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor 
Diane L. Whitaker as she retires from the Clinton County Library System 
this year after serving 31 years and 31 days as executive director of 
the Ross Library in Lock Haven, Pennsylvania.
  In the library's 107 years of existence, Ms. Whitaker is just the 
seventh director, but she is the longest serving in its history.
  The Ross Library Board of Trustees recently hosted a celebration for 
Ms. Whitaker. They also revealed the newly named ``Diane L. Whitaker 
Genealogy Collection'' on a plaque in her honor.
  Over the years, Ms. Whitaker has overseen numerous projects and has 
also authored grant applications that have helped local libraries with 
much-needed funding.
  Ms. Whitaker was raised in Clearfield County and holds a bachelor's 
degree in secondary education from Lock Haven University. She earned a 
master's degree in library science from Clarion University.
  She has been a career librarian for more than four decades, working 
as a school librarian, bookmobile librarian, children's coordinator, 
branch librarian, and administrator.
  Ms. Whitaker and her husband, Lester, live in Beech Creek. They have 
three daughters and six grandchildren, all of whom reside in Clinton 
and Centre Counties.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Whitaker for all her contributions to Ross 
Library and the entire Clinton County Library System. The community is 
a better place thanks to her efforts. She plans to visit State and 
national parks in her retirement, which I think is an outstanding plan.


                      Recognizing Michael Colbert

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, for nearly 20 years, 
Michael Colbert has given his leadership to Oil Creek Township as 
supervisor chairman. Last week, he oversaw his final meeting as 
supervisor, and he will retire at the end of the year.
  Mr. Colbert first served as a supervisor in 1993 to fill a vacancy, 
but he stepped down the next year. He would run again in 1999, win the 
seat, and officially be sworn in in January 2000.
  Over nearly 20 years at the helm, Mr. Colbert oversaw numerous 
projects, but he told the Titusville Herald that his proudest 
achievement was helping pave the way for Walmart to open a store in the 
township.
  In his well-deserved retirement, Mr. Colbert said he plans to 
vacation in Florida for a few weeks.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Colbert for his dedication and leadership to 
Oil Creek Township as supervisor chairman. He has given nearly 20 years 
of his time and energy to his neighbors and his community. For that, we 
are grateful.
  I wish him the best in retirement.

                          ____________________



