

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9708-H9709]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. STEWART (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mrs. 
             Love, and Mr. Curtis):
       H.R. 4558. A bill to provide greater conservation, 
     recreation, economic development and local management of 
     Federal lands in Garfield and Kane Counties, Utah; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ESTES of Kansas (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and 
             Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 4559. A bill to conduct a global aviation security 
     review, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. HILL:
       H.R. 4560. A bill to suspend contributions by Fannie Mae 
     and Freddie Mac to the Housing Trust Fund during any period 
     that the full required dividend payments under the Senior 
     Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements for such enterprises are 
     not made, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Katko, 
             and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 4561. A bill to provide for third party testing of 
     transportation security screening technology, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. HILL (for himself and Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 4562. A bill to provide relief to community banks, to 
     promote access to capital for community banks, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. RUSSELL (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Sessions, 
             and Mr. Flores):
       H.R. 4563. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to the 
     Government of Georgia if the President determines that the 
     Government of Georgia is taking actions to undermine 
     commitments or contractual agreements with United States 
     persons engaging in business operations in the country of 
     Georgia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on Financial 
     Services, and the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. McCaul, 
             Mr. Katko, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Rutherford, and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 4564. A bill to require a threat assessment on current 
     foreign terrorist fighter activities, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 4565. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish 
     headstones or markers to private cemeteries for graves of 
     certain veterans of World War I; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN:
       H.R. 4566. A bill to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
     Reform and Consumer Protection Act to provide relief to 
     nonbanks from certain stress test requirements under such 
     Act; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Vela, and Ms. Meng):
       H.R. 4567. A bill to require a Department of Homeland 
     Security overseas personnel enhancement plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. LABRADOR (for himself and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 4568. A bill to amend the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 
     to promote timely exploration for geothermal resources under 
     geothermal leases, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Katko, 
             Mr. Garrett, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, and Mr. Rutherford):
       H.R. 4569. A bill to require counterterrorism information 
     sharing coordination, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. Jones, Ms. Jayapal, 
             and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 4570. A bill to amend title 9 of the United States 
     Code with respect to arbitration; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself, Mr. Wilson of 
             South Carolina, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Mast, and Ms. 
             Rosen):
       H.R. 4571. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     expand eligibility for the TRICARE program to include certain 
     veterans entitled to benefits under the Medicare program due 
     to conditions or injuries incurred during service in the 
     Armed Forces and to waive the Medicare part B late enrollment 
     penalty for such veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr. Webster of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 4572. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to enter into an arrangement with the National 
     Academy of Medicine to evaluate the preparedness of 
     hospitals, long-term care facilities, dialysis centers, and 
     other medical facilities for public health emergencies; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Richmond, 
             Mr. Clay, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Rush, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Jeffries, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Bass, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Fudge, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Adams, and Mr. Evans):
       H.R. 4573. A bill to clarify that the Dickey Amendment does 
     not prevent the use of funds for research on mental health, 
     gun violence, and how they intersect, and to provide for 
     reporting on the effects of gun violence; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. 
             Roskam, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Bost, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Rush, Mr. Schneider, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. LaHood, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Shimkus, 
             and Mr. Gutierrez):
       H.R. 4574. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 108 West Schick Road in 
     Bloomingdale, Illinois, as the ``Bloomingdale Veterans 
     Memorial Post Office Building''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LONG (for himself and Mr. Schrader):
       H.R. 4575. A bill to amend title XXVII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to preserve consumer and employer access to 
     licensed independent insurance producers; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MEADOWS:
       H.R. 4576. A bill to expand school choice in the District 
     of Columbia; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             Katko, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Donovan, and Mr. Bacon):
       H.R. 4577. A bill to establish a working group to determine 
     ways to develop a domestic canine breeding network to produce 
     high

[[Page H9709]]

     quality explosives detection canines, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. VELA (for himself, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, 
             and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 4578. A bill to authorize certain counter terrorist 
     networks activities of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. Schrader):
       H.R. 4579. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to implement Medicare payment policies designed 
     to improve management of chronic disease, streamline care 
     coordination, and improve quality outcomes without adding to 
     the deficit; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mrs. Black):
       H.R. 4580. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to improve the Medicare accountable care 
     organization (ACO) program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H. Res. 646. A resolution impeaching Donald John Trump, 
     President of the United States, of high misdemeanors; which 
     was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



