

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7212]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING BARR-REEVE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Barr-Reeve 
Elementary School of Montgomery, IN, for being named a 2017 National 
Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education.
  Established in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program 
recognizes schools that have demonstrated a vision of educational 
excellence for all students, regardless of their social or economic 
background. Since its inception, this program has allowed schools in 
every State to gain recognition for educational accomplishments, 
particularly in closing the achievement gaps among students.
  Barr-Reeve Elementary School's history traces back to 1910 when it 
was known as Montgomery School and had 20 students. Today Barr-Reeve 
Elementary teaches students grades second to fifth and has 
approximately 290 students.
  The school supports students academically through small class sizes. 
When students face academic challenges, teachers help tutor them before 
and afterschool as well as during recess.
  Barr-Reeve Elementary utilizes innovative technology to learn about 
the geography and culture of the world on a digital level. Students 
each benefit from having a Chromebook, enhancing their learning and 
helping to prepare them for the technology based workplaces they will 
encounter in the future. Many teachers also utilize the nearby Naval 
Surface Warfare Center located in Crane, IN, for professional 
development and to take advantage of its lending library that enhances 
various STEM skills they can teach to students.
  Barr-Reeve Elementary School's staff, students, and families work 
together to teach and foster values that develop strong character. Each 
month, a different social skill is modeled and taught throughout the 
school. Students reinforce these positive behaviors through cards 
handed out by the student council to recognize students' positive 
character and leadership skills. The student council also instituted a 
tutoring program during the lunch recess to allow students to help 
their peers.
  Barr-Reeve Elementary School is an example of how dedication, 
motivation, collaboration, and strong family engagement in education 
benefits both students and the local community. At Barr-Reeve, parents 
are not only involved through an active parent teacher organization, 
but also as coaches, guest speakers, and volunteers in the classroom.
  I am proud to recognize Barr-Reeve Elementary School principal Dena 
Langacher, the entire staff, the student body, and their families. The 
effort, dedication, and value you put into education has led not only 
to this prestigious recognition, but will benefit you and the 
Montgomery community well into the future.
  On behalf of the citizens of Indiana, I congratulate Barr-Reeve 
Elementary School, and I wish the students and staff continued success 
in the future.

                          ____________________



