

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7530]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF DR. JAMES DURELL TUBERVILLE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. 
Johnson) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, it is with profound sadness 
that I rise today to recognize the life and dedicated service of one of 
the Lord's most humble and outstanding servants, Dr. James Durell 
Tuberville. He made it his life's work to help others during difficult 
times, and he was a beacon of light and a towering figure in the life 
of countless many people, including my own family. His lasting 
influence on our community cannot be expressed enough, and I am humbled 
to rise and pay tribute to his life today, his faithful stewardship, 
and his unwavering commitment to the people of our region in northwest 
Louisiana.
  James Durell Tuberville was born on October 25, 1958, in Shreveport, 
Louisiana, and on Sunday, August 13, 2017, he left this world to be 
with our Lord.
  After graduating from Southwood High School in Shreveport, Dr. 
Tuberville continued his education at Grawood Christian School and 
Southwestern Assemblies of God College. He majored in pastoral ministry 
at Southwestern University, and received a master of arts in counseling 
from Louisiana Tech University.

  He did all things for the glory of God, Mr. Speaker, and he brought 
care and compassion to multitudes. Dr. Tuberville served his early 
ministry as a youth pastor in Luna and then in Natchitoches, Louisiana. 
He later served as pastor of the Bethel Assembly of God in Shreveport 
for more than 11 years, before becoming counselor on the pastoral staff 
at Shreveport Community Church and president of Personal Solutions, 
Inc.
  He selflessly aided those suffering through some of the largest 
disasters of our lifetime, including the horrific earthquake in Haiti, 
the Oklahoma City bombing, and the great tragedy on September 11, 2001.
  Known and loved by all, Dr. Tuberville also served selflessly as 
chaplain for the Caddo Parish Sheriff's Office, Caddo Fire District 3, 
and as national chaplain of the firefighters Brother's Keepers 
Motorcycle Club.
  It is difficult to imagine our community without the leadership and 
the larger-than-life presence, always encouraging, of Dr. Tuberville. 
His legacy and example are an enduring lesson for all of us, and we are 
comforted to know he has been received by the Lord with that ultimate 
affirmation: ``Well done, good and faithful servant.''
  Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the United States Congress, it is a 
privilege to honor Dr. James Durell Tuberville today and to celebrate a 
life exceptionally well lived.
  My wife, Kelly, and I extend our continued prayers and sincerest 
condolences to his wife and soulmate, Susan, and their two sons, Joshua 
Durell and Dustin Bruce, to the entire Tuberville family, and to all 
those whose lives were changed by this true giant of a man.


    Recognizing the Service and Achievement of Major General Joanne 
                                Sheridan

  Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a 
hero from my home State, Major General Joanne Sheridan, for her 
steadfast service to the safety and security of the people of the State 
of Louisiana in the Louisiana National Guard.
  Five years ago, Major General Sheridan became the first female 
general in the Louisiana National Guard's history, and today I would 
like to commend her for raising the bar once again and becoming the 
first female two-star general in the history of our Louisiana National 
Guard.
  Originally from Maine, Major General Sheridan moved to Leesville, 
Louisiana, when the Army stationed her father, Command Sergeant Major 
Joe S. Fernald, at Fort Polk. There, she attended Leesville High 
School, and she went on to earn her bachelor of arts degree in 
sociology at Northeast Louisiana University in Monroe, Louisiana, where 
she received her commission through her Reserve Officers' Training 
Corps in May 1983. Later, she received a master's degree in strategic 
studies from the prestigious U.S. Army War College.
  A true soldier for her community and in our country, Major General 
Sheridan began her impressive military career as an Active-Duty 
servicemember in the U.S. Army in February 1984 at Fort Polk Army Base. 
Throughout her 33-year career, in both her Active-Duty and National 
Guard service, her leadership has earned her the respect of her peers 
and included many major accomplishments.

                              {time}  1800

  She became the first female to command a battalion leading the 415th 
Military Intelligence Battalion, commander of the 199th Regiment 
Regional Training Institute, and the first female to helm a major 
command when she led the 61st Troop Command.
  Currently, she serves as the assist general for the Louisiana 
National Guard and is responsible, as the principal military adviser to 
the adjunct general, in assisting in the deployment and coordination of 
programs, policies, and plans for the Louisiana Army and Air National 
Guard.
  The National Guard is unique in defending Louisiana both at home and 
abroad. Major General Sheridan served as a citizen soldier through 
Hurricane Katrina. She was deployed to Baghdad in support of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom in 2008, and led rescue and recovery efforts in the 
historic Louisiana flooding of 2016.
  She previously served as president of the National Guard Association 
of Louisiana, and she now serves as the secretary of the National Guard 
Association of the entire United States.
  Her dedication to the National Guard extends way beyond what is 
required of anyone. Twice--and this is even more inspiring--Major 
General Sheridan has battled breast cancer, and with her last round of 
treatment in August, she has again prevailed in that battle. Her 
incredible strength and courage serve as a beacon of hope for countless 
many others.
  Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to honor Major General Sheridan's 
many accomplishments and to recognize her honorable service to the 
State of Louisiana and to our great Nation. She has set a tremendous 
example, and I hope her accomplishments inspire others to aspire to her 
level of excellence.
  My wife, Kelly, and I thank Major General Sheridan for all she does 
to defend our community and country, and we wish her continued success.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



