

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8041-H8042]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr. Coffman):
       H.R. 4077. A bill to enhance transparency and 
     accountability for online political advertisements by 
     requiring those who purchase and publish such ads to disclose 
     information about the advertisements to the public, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself and Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 4078. A bill to establish various programs to ease the 
     burden on undereducated and financially deficient workers 
     seeking to further their education; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Mr. Keating, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, 
             and Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 4079. A bill to repeal Public Law 114-145 to ensure 
     that the Drug Enforcement Administration has the authority to 
     carry out needed enforcement actions for drug diversion 
     control investigations and operations to combat the opioid 
     epidemic; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KEATING (for himself, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. McGovern, 
             and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 4080. A bill to repeal Public Law 114-145; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms. Lee, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Capuano, and 
             Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 4081. A bill to ensure the privacy and security of 
     sensitive personal information, to prevent and mitigate 
     identity theft, to provide notice of security breaches 
     involving sensitive personal information, and to enhance law 
     enforcement assistance and other protections against security 
     breaches, fraudulent access, and misuse of personal 
     information; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Financial 
     Services, and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California, and Ms. Frankel of Florida):
       H.R. 4082. A bill to repeal the rules issued by the 
     Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, and the 
     Department of Health and Human Services entitled ``Religious 
     Exemptions and Accommodations for Coverage of Certain 
     Preventive Services Under the Affordable Care Act'' and 
     ``Moral Exemptions and Accommodations for Coverage of Certain 
     Preventive Services Under the Affordable Care Act''; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, and Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to

[[Page H8042]]

     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, and Mr. 
             Kilmer):
       H.R. 4083. A bill to establish and strengthen projects that 
     defray the cost of related instruction associated with pre-
     apprenticeship and apprenticeship programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, and Mr. 
             Cooper):
       H.R. 4084. A bill to repeal the amendments made to the 
     Controlled Substances Act by the Ensuring Patient Access and 
     Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2016; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUPPERSBERGER:
       H.R. 4085. A bill to require the Joint Committee on 
     Taxation to provide a distributional analysis, and analysis 
     of effects on after-tax wage income, of major tax 
     legislation; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Gomez, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mrs. Napolitano, and Mr. 
             Sherman):
       H.R. 4086. A bill to adjust the boundary of the Santa 
     Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to include the Rim 
     of the Valley Corridor, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for himself, Ms. Speier, 
             Mr. Raskin, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Eshoo, 
             and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 4087. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration to conduct a study relating 
     to ultrafine particles, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, 
             Mr. Byrne, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 4088. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a credit to employers for certain employee 
     education and training expenses; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mrs. WAGNER:
       H.R. 4089. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require the Secretary of the Treasury to issue 
     identity protection personal identification numbers with 
     respect to identity theft-related tax fraud; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Lewis of 
             Minnesota, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. 
             Walz, and Mr. Peterson):
       H. Res. 574. A resolution congratulating the Minnesota Lynx 
     women's basketball team on winning the 2017 Women's National 
     Basketball Association championship; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Khanna, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Bera, and Mr. Crowley):
       H. Res. 575. A resolution recognizing the religious and 
     historical significance of the festival of Diwali; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



