

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7176]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT COLONEL MICHAEL MANNING

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, today I pay tribute to a great Rhode 
Islander, LTC Michael Manning of the Rhode Island National Guard. My 
office, along with the rest of the Rhode Island congressional 
delegation, has worked closely with Lieutenant Colonel Manning for 
several years in his capacity as the Rhode Island National Guard 
legislative liaison. Throughout this time, he has been of great 
assistance to my office and has served in this position with great 
honor, dedication, and effectiveness.
  This Saturday, November 18, the Rhode Island National Guard 
Recruiting and Retention Battalion change of command ceremony will take 
place at Camp Fogarty in East Greenwich, RI. The incoming commander 
will be Lieutenant Colonel Manning. This ceremony represents the formal 
transfer of authority and responsibility of the Recruiting and 
Retention Battalion. The event will include a passing of the unit 
colors from one officer to another, symbolizing continued leadership, 
trust, and allegiance to the soldiers in the unit.
  Lieutenant Colonel Manning is a distinguished military graduate of 
Providence College's ROTC class of 1997. His first assignment was with 
1st Battalion, 26th Infantry Regiment, 1st Infantry Division, forward 
deployed to the Republic of Germany. In June 1999, he deployed to 
Kosovo in support of Operation Joint Guardian II. While in Kosovo, 
Lieutenant Colonel Manning was reassigned to E Troop, 4th U.S. Cavalry 
as a brigade reconnaissance troop leader for Task Force Falcon.
  In February 2002, after joining the Rhode Island Army National Guard, 
he was appointed commander of the 173rd Infantry Detachment Long Range 
Surveillance. The 173rd LRS was mobilized in support of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom III from July 2004 through November 2005. Lieutenant Colonel 
Manning deployed with Special Operations Detachment Global in support 
of Operation Enduring Freedom Caribbean and Central America in 2008 
through 2009, assigned to Special Operations Command South. While 
there, he served as the deputy chief for the Regional Engagement 
Branch, responsible for the Caribbean and Central America.
  In 2010, he graduated with distinction from the College of Naval 
Command and Staff at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, RI, with a 
master of arts in national security and strategic studies. In 2013, 
Lieutenant Colonel Manning mobilized and deployed once again with the 
Special Operations Detachment Global, where he served in the capacity 
of senior special operations to the Afghan Ministry of Defense.
  Lieutenant Colonel Manning has also served as an assistant professor 
of military science at Providence College, State Partnership Program 
coordinator, legislative liaison, operations officer for Special 
Operations Detachment Global, and is currently the secretary of the 
general staff. He is a special operations support qualified officer, 
senior instructor of design at the Joint Special Operations University, 
and recipient of numerous awards and decorations, including the Bronze 
Star with oakleaf cluster, Combat Infantryman's Badge, and the coveted 
Ranger Tab.
  I thank and congratulate Lieutenant Colonel Manning for his many 
sacrifices and achievements. In addition, I thank and congratulate his 
wife, Meg, his sons Michael and Jack, and his daughter Shannon for 
their many sacrifices and their support of the colonel. Rhode Island is 
fortunate to have such a committed, energetic, and selfless citizen and 
family. Godspeed, my friends.

                          ____________________



