

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7262]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 2126. A bill to amend the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to 
     provide a temporary exemption for low-revenue issuers from 
     certain auditor attestation requirements; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr. Sullivan, Ms. 
             Baldwin, and Mr. Cochran):
       S. 2127. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
     collectively, to the United States merchant mariners of World 
     War II, in recognition of their dedicated and vital service 
     during World War II; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
             Wyden, Mr. Boozman, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 2128. A bill to improve the coordination and use of 
     geospatial data; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Brown, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Franken, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Kaine, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Markey, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. 
             Warner):
       S. 2129. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     establish a punitive article in the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice on domestic violence, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 2130. A bill to establish within the Department of the 
     Interior the Outdoor Recreation Advisory Committee; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 2131. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish 
     medically necessary transportation for newborn children of 
     certain women veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Leahy, Ms. 
             Heitkamp, Mr. Coons, Mr. Brown, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Booker, Mr. Casey, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. King, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Sanders, and 
             Mr. Markey):
       S. 2132. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to ensure that working families have access to affordable 
     health insurance coverage; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 2133. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to enter into 
     alternative funding arrangements with certain community 
     irrigation associations and community land grants; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Moran, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Tester, and Mr. 
             Brown):
       S. 2134. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish processes to ensure that non-Department 
     of Veterans Affairs health care providers are using safe 
     practices in prescribing opioids to veterans under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Scott, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Hatch, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Heller, 
             and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 2135. A bill to enforce current law regarding the 
     National Instant Criminal Background Check System; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



