

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4828-S4831]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 66, a bill to amend 
title 10, United States Code, to permit certain retired members of the 
uniformed services who have a service-connected disability to receive 
both disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for their disability and either retired pay by reason of their years of 
military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 116

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 116, a bill to amend 
title 10, United States Code, to permit veterans who have a service-
connected, permanent disability rated as total to travel on military 
aircraft in the same manner and to the same extent as retired members 
of the Armed Forces entitled to such travel.


                                 S. 130

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 130, a bill to require 
enforcement against misbranded milk alternatives.


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill 
to amend the Public Health Service Act to establish a public health 
insurance option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award 
the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his 
heroic achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle 
East.


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 384, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the new markets tax 
credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 393

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 393, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to allow employers a credit against income tax for 
employees who participate in qualified apprenticeship programs.


                                 S. 405

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 405, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Higher Education Act 
of 1965 to provide an exclusion from income for student loan 
forgiveness for students who have died or become disabled.


                                 S. 448

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 448, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to provide for treatment of clinical 
psychologists as physicians for purposes of furnishing clinical 
psychologist services under the Medicare program.

[[Page S4829]]

  



                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 474, a bill to condition assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on 
steps by the Palestinian Authority to end violence and terrorism 
against Israeli citizens.


                                 S. 515

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 515, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Labor to maintain a publicly available list of all 
employers that relocate a call center overseas, to make such companies 
ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to require 
disclosure of the physical location of business agents engaging in 
customer service communications, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 527

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 527, a bill to 
improve access to emergency medical services, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to 
prevent the sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring 
the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority 
of States to tax certain income of employees for employment duties 
performed in other States.


                                 S. 581

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 581, a bill to include 
information concerning a patient's opioid addiction in certain medical 
records.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 625

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 625, a bill to preserve 
the integrity of American elections by providing the Attorney General 
with the investigative tools to identify and prosecute foreign agents 
who seek to circumvent Federal registration requirements and unlawfully 
influence the political process.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 754

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 754, a bill to 
support meeting our Nation's growing cybersecurity workforce needs by 
expanding the cybersecurity education pipeline.


                                 S. 756

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) and the 
Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) were added as cosponsors of S. 
756, a bill to reauthorize and amend the Marine Debris Act to promote 
international action to reduce marine debris, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 794

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 794, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act in order to improve the process 
whereby Medicare administrative contractors issue local coverage 
determinations under the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 835

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 835, a bill to require 
the Supreme Court of the United States to promulgate a code of ethics.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize 
the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 967

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 967, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to increase access to ambulance 
services under the Medicare program and to reform payments for such 
services under such program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the ability of community 
financial institutions to foster economic growth and serve their 
communities, boost small businesses, increase individual savings, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1113

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1113, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety of cosmetics.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of 
The American Legion.


                                S. 1198

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1198, a bill to protect 
individuals who are eligible for increased pension under laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on the basis of need 
of regular aid and attendance from dishonest, predatory, or otherwise 
unlawful practices, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1201

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1201, a bill to 
allow individuals living in areas without qualified health plans 
offered through an Exchange to have similar access to health insurance 
coverage as Members of Congress and congressional staff.


                                S. 1307

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1307, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand eligibility to 
receive refundable tax credits for coverage under a qualified health 
plan.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1311, a bill to provide assistance in abolishing human 
trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the 
Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1312, a bill to prioritize the fight against human 
trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1357

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1357, a bill to 
amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide a standard 
definition of therapeutic family care services in Medicaid.

[[Page S4830]]

  



                                S. 1369

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1369, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish an excise tax on certain 
prescription drugs which have been subject to a price spike, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1413

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1413, a bill to authorize the Secretary 
of Education to award grants to establish teacher leader development 
programs.


                                S. 1513

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1513, a bill to 
reauthorize and amend the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation 
Establishment Act.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1568, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of 
President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1595, a bill to amend the 
Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose 
additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1616

  At the request of Ms. Collins, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1616, a bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Bob Dole, in 
recognition for his service to the nation as a soldier, legislator, and 
statesman.
  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the names of the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander), the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), 
the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. 
Bennet), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator 
from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker), 
the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell), the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. 
Capito), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin), the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Carper), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the 
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. 
Coons), the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Corker), the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn), the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo), the 
Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines), 
the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly), the Senator from Illinois (Ms. 
Duckworth), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from 
Wyoming (Mr. Enzi), the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer), the 
Senator from Arizona (Mr. Flake), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. 
Franken), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner), the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Graham), 
the Senator from California (Ms. Harris), the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich), the 
Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp), the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Isakson), the 
Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
Kaine), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy), the Senator from 
Maine (Mr. King), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the 
Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee), 
the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin), the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill), 
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley), the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski), the Senator 
from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson), 
the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Paul), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Perdue), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters), the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Portman), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator 
from Idaho (Mr. Risch), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds), the 
Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Sanders), the Senator from Nebraska (Mr. Sasse), the Senator from 
Hawaii (Mr. Schatz), the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer), the 
Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott), the Senator from New Hampshire 
(Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the Senator 
from Alabama (Mr. Strange), the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan), the 
Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. 
Thune), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis), the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), the 
Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
Warner), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from 
Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. 
Wicker) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1616, supra.


                                S. 1624

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1624, a bill to 
prohibit the use of chlorpyrifos on food, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1666

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1666, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of Transportation to issue a rule requiring all 
new passenger motor vehicles to be equipped with a child safety alert 
system, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1697

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin), the 
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. 
Coons), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from 
Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added as cosponsors of S. 1697, a bill to 
condition assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the 
Palestinian Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli 
citizens and United States Citizens.
  At the request of Mr. Schumer, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1697, supra.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Carper), the 
Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were added as cosponsors of S. 1706, a bill 
to prevent human health threats posed by the consumption of equines 
raised in the United States.


                                S. 1729

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1729, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for independent 
accreditation for dialysis facilities and assurances of high quality 
surveys.


                              S. RES. 195

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 195, a resolution 
recognizing June 20, 2017, as ``World Refugee Day''.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 329

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 329 intended to be proposed to 
H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year

[[Page S4831]]

2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 527

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
527 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 528

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Murphy) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 528 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 529

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
529 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 592

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 592 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 750

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 750 intended to be proposed 
to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.

                          ____________________



