

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 196 (Friday, December 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 196 (Friday, December 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9597-H9598]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. FOXX (for herself and Mr. Guthrie):
       H.R. 4508. A bill to support students in completing an 
     affordable postsecondary education that will prepare them to 
     enter the workforce with the skills they need for lifelong 
     success; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BLUM:
       H.R. 4509. A bill to prohibit the use of official funds for 
     airline accommodations for Members of Congress which are not 
     coach-class accommodations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. BLUM:
       H.R. 4510. A bill to prohibit the use of official funds 
     provided for the operations of a House of Congress for long-
     term vehicle leases, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on House Administration.
           By Mr. BLUM:
       H.R. 4511. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit former Members of Congress from lobbying Members, 
     officers, or employees of Congress; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUM:
       H.R. 4512. A bill to provide that the rates of pay for 
     Members of Congress shall be reduced following any fiscal 
     year in which there is a Federal deficit; to the Committee on 
     House Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4513. A bill to amend the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act to alter and expand eligibility for farm 
     ownership loans by modifying the 3-year experience 
     requirement; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK:
       H.R. 4514. A bill to prohibit deductions for settlements 
     subject to nondisclosure agreements paid in connection with 
     sexual harassment or sexual abuse, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. 
             Emmer, Mr. Walden, and Mr. Burgess):
       H.R. 4515. A bill to amend title XXI of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for a special rule during the first quarter of 
     fiscal year 2018 for the redistribution of certain Children's 
     Health Insurance Program allocations for certain shortfall 
     States; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. DelBENE:
       H.R. 4516. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the treatment of certain payments made with 
     respect to sexual misconduct; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself, Mr. Collins of New York, and 
             Mr. Stivers):
       H.R. 4517. A bill to amend the Home Owners' Loan Act to 
     allow mutual holding companies to clarify requirements 
     related to the waiver of dividends, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Brown of Maryland, 
             Mr. Gomez, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Huffman, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Soto, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Polis, Ms. Lee, Mr. McGovern, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. 
             Panetta, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 4518. A bill to expand the boundaries of the Bears 
     Ears National Monument, to ensure prompt engagement with the 
     Bears Ears Commission and prompt implementation of the 
     Proclamation establishing the Bears Ears National Monument, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. HUIZENGA:
       H.R. 4519. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to repeal certain disclosure requirements related to 
     resource extraction, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. 
             Loebsack):
       H.R. 4520. A bill to provide for the extension of the 
     enforcement instruction on supervision requirements for 
     outpatient therapeutic services in critical access and small 
     rural hospitals through 2017; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. Lee, Mr. Soto, Mr. Deutch, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Crist, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Cardenas, and Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 4521. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to simplify the SNAP recertification process for the 
     elderly and disabled, and to spur innovation in the 
     application processes of SNAP, the Medicare Savings Program, 
     and supplemental security income that will increase the 
     utilization of entitlement programs among the most vulnerable 
     of populations; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. LOVE:
       H.R. 4522. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to prohibit the use of public funds for the 
     payment of a settlement or award under such Act in connection 
     with a claim arising from sexual harassment committed by a 
     Member of Congress; to the Committee on House Administration.

[[Page H9598]]

  

           By Mr. NEAL:
       H.R. 4523. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand retirement plan coverage, increase retirement 
     security, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. NEAL:
       H.R. 4524. A bill to expand retirement coverage, preserve 
     retirement income, simplify rules related to retirement 
     plans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALLONE:
       H.R. 4525. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to make 
     grants to States and local governments and nongovernmental 
     organizations for purposes of carrying out shoreline 
     stabilization projects utilizing natural materials; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ROKITA:
       H.R. 4526. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide penalties for certain obstructions of the enforcement 
     of Federal immigration laws; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Meeks, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Sablan):
       H.R. 4527. A bill to direct the Assistant Secretary of 
     Commerce for Communications and Information to prepare and 
     submit periodic reports to Congress on the role of 
     telecommunications in hate crimes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 4528. A bill to make technical amendments to certain 
     marine fish conservation statutes, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. WAGNER:
       H.R. 4529. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to revise Form S-3 so as to add listing and 
     registration of a class of common equity securities on a 
     national securities exchange as an additional basis for 
     satisfying the requirements of General Instruction I.B.1. of 
     such form and to remove such listing and registration as a 
     requirement of General Instruction I.B.6. of such form; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. ROSS (for himself, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Graves of 
             Georgia, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Stivers, and Mr. Peterson):
       H.J. Res. 122. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to ``Payday, Vehicle Title, and 
     Certain High-Cost Installment Loans``; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, and Mr. Kilmer):
       H. Con. Res. 95. Concurrent resolution expressing support 
     for the use of public-private partnerships to bring computer 
     science education to more K-12 classrooms; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Schiff, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, and Ms. Barragan):
       H. Res. 639. A resolution honoring the success of the more-
     than-a-decade-long process by Southern California locals to 
     create the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Takano, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan 
             of New Mexico, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Lipinski, and Mr. Farenthold):
       H. Res. 640. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of December 3, 2017, as the ``National Day of 3D 
     Printing''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Richmond, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Woodall, Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Ferguson, 
             Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Norton, and Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman):
       H. Res. 641. A resolution recognizing the 150th Anniversary 
     of Morehouse College and its contributions to the United 
     States and the world; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI:
       H. Res. 642. A resolution prohibiting the use of the 
     Members' Representational Allowance of a Member of the House 
     of Representatives to pay awards, settlements, or other 
     compensation in connection with allegations of sexual 
     harassment or sexual misconduct by the Member or the 
     employees of the Member's office, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on House Administration.

                          ____________________



