

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8081]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        RECOGNIZING THE COMMISSIONING OF THE USS ``LITTLE ROCK''

  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the 
commissioning of the USS Little Rock, a Freedom-class littoral combat 
ship. I was proud to celebrate this historic occasion with all who 
gathered for the commissioning in Buffalo, NY, this past weekend.
  It is an honor to have one of the Navy's more versatile warships 
named after our State's capital city. The USS Little Rock's logo 
features one of the most recognizable images associated with Arkansas--
the Razorback. The University of Arkansas football team was given the 
nickname after the head coach at the time said the team played like a 
bunch of razorback hogs. I am confident this crew, known as the 
Warhawgs, will carry on that same work ethic. It has been more than 
four decades since the Navy had a ship named after the city of Little 
Rock, and we are thrilled that it will again be represented in the 
Navy's fleet.
  Saturday marked the first time in the history of the Navy that a ship 
was commissioned alongside her namesake. This special occasion brought 
together members of the original USS Little Rock and those like LT 
Robert Dyer from Mountainburg, AK, who is a member of the current crew.
  During its time as a light cruiser and then as a guided missile 
cruiser, the original USS Little Rock and its crew were vital to 
defeating the growing threats of its time. The new USS Little Rock is 
just as critical to our Navy's sea power. This ship and the strength 
and resolve of the Warhawg crew are the future of the Navy, offering 
unique capabilities to defend against evolving threats around the 
globe.
  There are things this Chamber and our colleagues in the House of 
Representatives can do to ensure that the Navy has the resources to 
stay ahead of the threats our adversaries pose to us and our allies, 
and that begins with passing individual appropriations bills. As 
Congress continues discussions for fiscal year 2018 funding, it serves 
as a reminder that continuing resolutions are an inefficient method to 
keep the government operating. We should be approving individual 
appropriations bills instead of relying on continuing resolutions.
  The starts and stops in the budgeting process impact the Defense 
Department and the Navy significantly. They certainly slow down the 
already long timetable to achieve the goal of a 355-ship fleet. 
Continuing resolutions negatively impact our military ratings and take 
our eyes off the focus of eliminating wasteful spending. They hinder 
our Navy's leaders' ability to plan and purchase equipment in support 
of its missions. They restrict the Navy from starting new programs or 
eliminating old and unneeded ones.
  Earlier this month, Navy Secretary Spencer said the service wasted $4 
billion since 2011 because of continuing resolutions. This could have 
gone a long way toward growing our fleet. Instead, it is gone. A 
continuing resolution means that the Navy is operating on the previous 
year's budget level and last year's priorities. It means delays in 
shipbuilding and ship repair. It also means reducing training 
opportunities, flying hours, and steaming days. That forces more 
requirements onto the operational fleet, which is already stretched 
thin after decades of constant worldwide deployment. Secretary of 
Defense James Mattis has said that the longer the continuing 
resolution, the greater the consequences for our force.
  Funding the government is the basic responsibility of Washington. It 
is an obligation that my colleagues and I on the Senate Appropriations 
Committee take very seriously as we craft the appropriations bills, set 
priorities, and make difficult decisions on how to spend taxpayer 
dollars.
  We must return to a process in which we debate and pass annual 
spending bills in order to provide much needed predictability to our 
military leaders, as well as other agencies of government. We can make 
this happen by returning to regular order and passing individual 
appropriations bills. I can't say that enough. We owe it to our 
servicemembers, their families, and all Americans. We owe it to the 
crew of the USS Little Rock.
  Admittedly, Little Rock is not the first place most people think of 
when you mention the Navy. Our State doesn't border an ocean. But now 
the State capital will once again have a place on the high seas. This 
is a tremendous honor for the city of Little Rock, and I know the ship 
and its crew will make Arkansas proud.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



