

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6929-S6930]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 SENATE RESOLUTION 316--RECOGNIZING NATIONAL NATIVE AMERICAN HERITAGE 
 MONTH AND CELEBRATING THE HERITAGES AND CULTURES OF NATIVE AMERICANS 
     AND THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF NATIVE AMERICANS TO THE UNITED STATES

  Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr. Udall, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Thune, Ms. 
Heitkamp, Mr. Wyden, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Daines, Mr. Lankford, Ms. Hirono, 
Mr. Moran, Mr. Heller, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Cantwell, Mr.

[[Page S6930]]

Merkley, Mr. Tillis, Mr. King, Mr. Franken, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Tester, Ms. 
Stabenow, and Mr. Heinrich) submitted the following resolution; which 
was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 316

       Whereas, from November 1, 2017, through November 30, 2017, 
     the United States celebrates National Native American 
     Heritage Month;
       Whereas National Native American Heritage Month is an 
     opportunity to consider and recognize the contributions of 
     Native Americans to the history of the United States;
       Whereas Native Americans are descendants of the original, 
     indigenous inhabitants of what is now the United States;
       Whereas the Bureau of the Census estimated that, in 2010, 
     there were more than 5,000,000 individuals of Native American 
     descent in the United States;
       Whereas Native Americans maintain vibrant cultures and 
     traditions and hold a deeply rooted sense of community;
       Whereas Native Americans have moving stories of tragedy, 
     triumph, and perseverance that need to be shared with future 
     generations;
       Whereas Native Americans speak and preserve indigenous 
     languages, which have contributed to the English language by 
     being used as names of individuals and locations throughout 
     the United States;
       Whereas Congress has consistently reaffirmed the support of 
     the United States of tribal self-governance and self-
     determination and the commitment of the United States to 
     improving the lives of all Native Americans by--
       (1) enhancing health care and law enforcement resources; 
     and
       (2) improving the housing and socioeconomic status of 
     Native Americans;
       Whereas the United States is committed to strengthening the 
     government-to-government relationship that the United States 
     has maintained with the various Indian tribes;
       Whereas Congress has recognized the contributions of the 
     Iroquois Confederacy and the influence of the Iroquois 
     Confederacy on the Founding Fathers in the drafting of the 
     Constitution of the United States with the concepts of--
       (1) freedom of speech;
       (2) the separation of governmental powers; and
       (3) the system of checks and balances between the branches 
     of government;
       Whereas, with the enactment of the Native American Heritage 
     Day Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-33; 123 Stat. 1922), 
     Congress--
       (1) reaffirmed the government-to-government relationship 
     between the United States and Native American governments; 
     and
       (2) recognized the important contributions of Native 
     Americans to the culture of the United States;
       Whereas Native Americans have made distinct and important 
     contributions to the United States and the rest of the world 
     in many fields, including the fields of agriculture, 
     medicine, music, language, and art;
       Whereas Native Americans have distinguished themselves as 
     inventors, entrepreneurs, spiritual leaders, and scholars;
       Whereas Native Americans have served with honor and 
     distinction in the Armed Forces and continue to serve in the 
     Armed Forces in greater numbers per capita than any other 
     group in the United States;
       Whereas the United States has recognized the contribution 
     of the Native American code talkers in World War I and World 
     War II, who used indigenous languages as an unbreakable 
     military code, saving countless lives in the United States; 
     and
       Whereas the people of the United States have reason to 
     honor the great achievements and contributions of Native 
     Americans and their ancestors: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) recognizes the month of November 2017 as ``National 
     Native American Heritage Month'';
       (2) recognizes the Friday after Thanksgiving as ``Native 
     American Heritage Day'' in accordance with section 2(10) of 
     the Native American Heritage Day Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-
     33; 123 Stat. 1923); and
       (3) urges the people of the United States to observe 
     National Native American Heritage Month and Native American 
     Heritage Day with appropriate programs and activities.

                          ____________________



