

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10344-H10345]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. OLSON (for himself and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 4690. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to require Members of Congress to reimburse the 
     Treasury for amounts paid as awards and settlements under 
     such Act in connection with violations of such Act consisting 
     of acts of sexual harassment or sexual assault committed 
     personally by Members of Congress;

[[Page H10345]]

     to the Committee on House Administration, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 4691. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act to 
     prohibit the issuance of licenses to certain individuals 
     connected to dealers of dogs who have had licenses revoked, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 4692. A bill to revise the boundaries of a John H. 
     Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System Unit in Topsail, 
     North Carolina; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 4693. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act to 
     provide for the humane treatment of dogs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Ms. Norton, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Barragan, 
             Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Meng, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Takano, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. 
             Hoyer, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Garamendi, and 
             Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 4694. A bill to provide for the compensation of 
     Federal employees furloughed during a Government shutdown; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Gottheimer, 
             Mr. Lance, Mr. Bera, Mr. Trott, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Suozzi, 
             Mr. Dent, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Soto, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Faso, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Costa, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Peters, and Mr. 
             Welch):
       H.R. 4695. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to provide for stabilization in the 
     individual health insurance market, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCSHON:
       H.R. 4696. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to promote 
     hydropower development at existing nonpowered dams, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. CHENEY:
       H.R. 4697. A bill to amend the Wyoming Wilderness Act of 
     1984 to clarify authorized recreational uses in the 
     Palisades, High Lakes, and Shoal Creek Wilderness Study 
     Areas; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. JEFFRIES:
       H.R. 4698. A bill to protect the safety of judges by 
     extending the authority of the Judicial Conference to redact 
     sensitive information contained in their financial disclosure 
     reports, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Titus, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 4699. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to authorize the use of title III funds for the establishment 
     LGBTQ resource centers; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 4700. A bill to establish the IMPACT for Energy 
     Foundation; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mrs. Dingell, and Mr. Palazzo):
       H.R. 4701. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to eliminate the 3-day prior hospitalization 
     requirement for Medicare coverage of skilled nursing facility 
     services in qualified skilled nursing facilities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida (for himself and Mr. 
             Smucker):
       H.R. 4702. A bill to provide accountability and protect 
     whistleblowers in the Department of Education; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself and Mr. Francis Rooney of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 4703. A bill to improve accountability of senior 
     officials and other supervisory employees of the Department 
     of Labor; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself and Mr. Walberg):
       H.R. 4704. A bill to amend titles XVIII and XIX of the 
     Social Security Act to codify the emergency preparedness 
     final rule for skilled nursing facilities and nursing 
     facilities as conditions of participation under the Medicare 
     and Medicaid programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself and Ms. Frankel 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 4705. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to require the automatic referral to the 
     congressional ethics committees of the disposition of any 
     allegation that an employing office of the House of 
     Representatives or Senate violated part A of title II of such 
     Act; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 669. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; which was 
     considered and agreed to.

                          ____________________



