

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8292-H8294]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:


[[Page H8293]]


  

           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Ms. Titus, Mr. Trott, 
             and Mr. Kildee):
       H.R. 4168. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat in the same manner as a machine gun any bump 
     fire stock, or any other devices designed to accelerate 
     substantially the rate of fire of a semiautomatic weapon; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MARCHANT (for himself, Mr. Smith of Missouri, 
             Mr. Simpson, and Mr. Ferguson):
       H.R. 4169. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to remove the enrollment restriction on certain 
     physicians and practitioners prescribing covered outpatient 
     drugs under the Medicare prescription drug program; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. 
             Goodlatte, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Buck, and Mr. 
             Babin):
       H.R. 4170. A bill to amend the Foreign Agents Registration 
     Act of 1938 to promote greater transparency in the 
     registration of persons serving as the agents of foreign 
     principals, to provide the Attorney General with greater 
     authority to investigate alleged violations of such Act and 
     bring criminal and civil actions against persons who commit 
     such violations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE (for himself and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 4171. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     extend the authority to conduct telework travel expenses test 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. NEAL (for himself, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Levin, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Crowley, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. 
             DelBene, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, and Ms. 
             Plaskett):
       H.R. 4172. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide tax relief for major disasters declared in 
     any of calendar years 2012 through 2015, to make certain tax 
     relief provisions permanent, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana (for himself, Mr. 
             Hollingsworth, Mr. Messer, Mr. Bucshon, Mrs. 
             Walorski, and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 4173. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to conduct a study on the Veterans Crisis Line; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin (for himself, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. Gowdy, and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 4174. A bill to amend titles 5 and 44, United States 
     Code, to require Federal evaluation activities, improve 
     Federal data management, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself and Mr. 
             Schneider):
       H.R. 4175. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a credit against income tax for equity 
     investments in small business concerns; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for himself and Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 4176. A bill to strengthen air cargo security, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Lance, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Dent, Mr. Farenthold, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Crist, Mr. Peters, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Cummings, and Mr. 
             Lowenthal):
       H.R. 4177. A bill to enhance the Federal Government's 
     planning and preparation for extreme weather and the Federal 
     Government's dissemination of best practices to respond to 
     extreme weather, thereby increasing resilience, improving 
     regional coordination, and mitigating the financial risk to 
     the Federal Government from such extreme weather, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr. Gohmert, and Mr. 
             Conaway):
       H.R. 4178. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for reform to and a permanent 
     extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BORDALLO (for herself, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Sablan, 
             and Ms. Plaskett):
       H.R. 4179. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     apply the same apportionment formula to territories and the 
     District of Columbia as is applied to States with respect to 
     amounts made available for State purposes from the Land and 
     Water Conservation Fund, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Khanna, Ms. Moore, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Norton, and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 4180. A bill to amend the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 
     to provide that in order to be eligible to receive a grant 
     for a crime victim compensation program, such program shall 
     provide for the tolling of any limitation period relating to 
     the submission of an application for compensation for victims 
     of sexual assault with backlogged sexual assault evidence 
     collection kits, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COHEN:
       H.R. 4181. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     regarding proprietary institutions of higher education in 
     order to protect students and taxpayers; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. COMER (for himself, Mr. Meadows, and Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia):
       H.R. 4182. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     modify probationary periods with respect to positions within 
     the competitive service and the Senior Executive Service, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself and Miss 
             Rice of New York):
       H.R. 4183. A bill to condition a State's eligibility for 
     grants under the National Criminal History Improvement 
     Program on compliance with certain requirements relating to 
     increasing reporting of domestic violence records, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mr. Hastings, 
             Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H.R. 4184. A bill to adjust the immigration status of 
     certain foreign nationals in temporary protected status who 
     are in the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             and Ms. Jayapal):
       H.R. 4185. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase state allocations for the low-income housing 
     credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, and Mrs. Torres):
       H.R. 4186. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     protect more victims of domestic violence by preventing their 
     abusers from possessing or receiving firearms, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH:
       H.R. 4187. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit former Members and elected officers of Congress from 
     lobbying Congress at any time after leaving office; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself, Mr. Estes of 
             Kansas, Mr. Yoder, and Mr. Marshall):
       H.R. 4188. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 621 Kansas Avenue in 
     Atchison, Kansas, as the ``Amelia Earhart Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
       H.R. 4189. A bill to reduce the disadvantages of individual 
     retirement arrangements with respect to employer-sponsored 
     retirement plans by helping taxpayers comply with laws 
     affecting individual retirement arrangements, by providing 
     for reduced penalties under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     for certain self-corrections with respect to such laws, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself and Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia):
       H.R. 4190. A bill to amend the 21st Century Cures Act to 
     ensure the equitable distribution of resources to address the 
     opioid epidemic, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LONG (for himself and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 4191. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
     designate an officer within the Department of Health and 
     Human Services as having primary responsibility for the 
     information security (including cybersecurity) programs of 
     the Department, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, and 
             Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 4192. A bill to establish a grant program to encourage 
     States to adopt certain policies and procedures relating to 
     the transfer and possession of firearms; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.

[[Page H8294]]

  

           By Ms. MOORE:
       H.R. 4193. A bill to deauthorize a portion of the project 
     for navigation, Milwaukee Harbor, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 4194. A bill to direct the Mayor of the District of 
     Columbia to establish a District of Columbia National Guard 
     Educational Assistance Program to encourage the enlistment 
     and retention of persons in the District of Columbia National 
     Guard by providing financial assistance to enable members of 
     the National Guard of the District of Columbia to attend 
     undergraduate, vocational, or technical courses; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 4195. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to provide enhanced enforcement authority for 
     occupational safety and health protections applicable to the 
     legislative branch, to provide whistleblower protections and 
     other antidiscrimation protections for employees of the 
     legislative branch, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on House Administration, and in addition to the Committees on 
     the Judiciary, and Education and the Workforce, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALLONE:
       H.R. 4196. A bill to prohibit price gouging after a major 
     disaster, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 4197. A bill to create qualifications for, and certain 
     limitations on, staffs of special counsels; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. 
             Matsui, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Titus, and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 4198. A bill to promote the economic security and 
     safety of survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, 
     sexual assault, or stalking, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Financial Services, Ways and Means, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER:
       H.R. 4199. A bill to direct the Attorney General to 
     establish a national pharmaceutical stewardship program to 
     facilitate the collection and disposal of prescription 
     medications; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Jayapal, and Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H.J. Res. 120. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States limiting the pardon 
     power of the President; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas):
       H. Res. 594. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of October as ``National Domestic Violence Awareness Month`` 
     and expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that 
     Congress should continue to raise awareness of domestic 
     violence and its devastating effects on individuals, 
     families, and communities, and support programs designed to 
     end domestic violence in the United States; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself and Mr. Wenstrup):
       H. Res. 596. A resolution commending the heroism and 
     achievements of Team USA at the Invictus Games Toronto 2017; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. King 
             of Iowa, and Mr. Hunter):
       H. Res. 597. A resolution recognizing 500 years since the 
     Protestant Reformation and its significance for many 
     Americans; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H. Res. 598. A resolution recognizing the life and legacy 
     of Isaac ``Ike'' Fulwood, Jr., Police Chief for the 
     Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia 
     from 1989 to 1992; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.

                          ____________________



