

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 161 (Friday, October 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 161 (Friday, October 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7891-H7892]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Smith of Texas, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Chabot, Mr. 
             Raskin, and Mr. Johnson of Louisiana):
       H.R. 3989. A bill to amend the Foreign Intelligence 
     Surveillance Act of 1978 to clarify and improve the 
     procedures and accountability for authorizing certain 
     acquisitions of foreign intelligence, to extend title VII of 
     such Act, to ensure that the barriers to sharing critical 
     foreign intelligence among the intelligence community that 
     existed before September 11, 2001, are not reimposed, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, Intelligence (Permanent Select), and Homeland 
     Security, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             McClintock, Mr.

[[Page H7892]]

             Gosar, Mr. LaMalfa, and Mr. Westerman):
       H.R. 3990. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     reform the Antiquities Act of 1906, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 3991. A bill to amend section 303(g)(2) of the 
     Controlled Substances Act to allow certain pharmacists to 
     dispense narcotic drugs for maintenance or detoxification 
     treatment pursuant to the same waiver provisions as apply 
     with respect to nurse practitioners and physician assistants; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 3992. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to delay application of, transition to, and 
     limit savings for the home health groupings model under the 
     Medicare home health prospective payment system, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN (for herself, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico, and Mr. Sablan):
       H.R. 3993. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to include United States nationals among the eligible 
     employees of an EB-5 commercial enterprise, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mr. Lance):
       H.R. 3994. A bill to establish the Office of Internet 
     Connectivity and Growth, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Pocan, and Ms. Pingree):
       H. Res. 561. A resolution commending the cooperative 
     business model and the businesses, employees, and 
     practitioners nationally and internationally who use it for 
     their contributions to the economy and social impacts they 
     make on their communities; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.

                          ____________________



