

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7110-S7111]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 200, a bill to prohibit the conduct of a first-use 
nuclear strike absent a declaration of war by Congress.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to the 
exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic 
of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 803

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 803, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to deny tax deductions for corporate regulatory 
violations.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1063

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1063, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to establish direct care registered nurse-to-
patient staffing ratio requirements in hospitals, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1188

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1188, a bill to amend 
title XXIX of the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the program 
under such title relating to lifespan respite care.


                                S. 1276

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1276, a bill to 
require the Attorney General to make a determination as to whether 
cannabidiol should be a controlled substance and listed in a schedule 
under the Controlled Substances Act and to expand research on the 
potential medical benefits of cannabidiol and other marihuana 
components.


                                S. 1344

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1344, a bill to promote the 
development of local strategies to coordinate use of assistance under 
sections 8 and 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 with public 
and private resources, to enable eligible families to achieve economic 
independence and self-sufficiency, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1350

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1350, a bill to amend the 
National Labor Relations Act with respect to the timing of elections 
and pre-election hearings and the identification of pre-election 
issues, and to require that lists of employees eligible to vote in 
organizing elections be provided to the National Labor Relations Board.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed) and the Senator 
from California (Ms. Harris) were added as cosponsors of S. 1539, a 
bill to protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1591, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act 
of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                                S. 1742

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1742, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for an option 
for any citizen or permanent resident of the United States age 55 to 64 
to buy into Medicare.


                                S. 1838

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1838, a bill to repeal the 
authority under the National Labor Relations Act for States to enact 
laws prohibiting agreements requiring membership in a labor 
organization as a condition of employment, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1916

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1916, a bill to 
prohibit the possession or transfer of certain firearm accessories, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1917

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1917, a bill to reform 
sentencing laws and correctional institutions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2038

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2038, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for a presumption of herbicide 
exposure for certain veterans who served in Korea, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2057

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2057, a bill to 
prevent conflicts of interest that stem from the revolving door that 
raises concerns about the independence of pharmaceutical regulators.


                                S. 2070

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2070, a bill to 
amend the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, to 
reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and 
to promote initiatives that will reduce the risk of injury and death 
relating to the wandering characteristics of some children with autism.
  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2070, supra.


                                S. 2080

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2080, a bill to 
increase the role of the financial industry in combating human 
trafficking.


                              S. RES. 279

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.

[[Page S7111]]

Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 279, a resolution reaffirming 
the commitment of the United States to promote democracy, human rights, 
and the rule of law in Cambodia.


                              S. RES. 323

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) and the 
Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 
323, a resolution requiring sexual harassment training for Members, 
officers, employees, interns, and fellows of the Senate and a periodic 
survey of the Senate.

                          ____________________



