

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7452-H7456]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      THE AMERICAN LEGION 100TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT

  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 2519) to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint 
commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of The 
American Legion, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2519

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as ``The American Legion 100th 
     Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       The Congress finds that--
       (1) on March 15, 1919, The American Legion was founded in 
     Paris, France, by members of the American Expeditionary Force 
     occupying Europe after World War I and concerned about the 
     welfare of their comrades and communities upon their return 
     to the United States;
       (2) on September 16, 1919, Congress chartered The American 
     Legion, which quickly grew to become the largest veterans 
     service organization in the United States;
       (3) The American Legion conferences in Washington, DC, in 
     1923 and 1924 crafted the first United States Flag Code, 
     which was adopted in schools, States, cities and counties 
     prior to being enacted in 1942, establishing the proper use, 
     display, and respect for the colors of the United States;
       (4) during World War II, The American Legion developed and 
     presented to Congress its case for vastly improved support 
     for medically discharged, disabled veterans, which ultimately 
     became the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944 (58 Stat. 
     284; chapter 268), better known as the G.I. Bill of Rights, 
     and was drafted by former American Legion National Commander 
     Harry W. Colmery in Washington's Mayflower Hotel;
       (5) through the leadership and advocacy of The American 
     Legion, the G.I. Bill was enacted in June 1944, which led to 
     monumental changes in United States society, including the 
     democratization of higher education, home ownership for 
     average people in the United States, better VA hospitals, 
     business

[[Page H7453]]

     and farm loans for veterans, and the ability to appeal 
     conditions of military discharge;
       (6) defying those who argued the G.I. Bill would break the 
     Treasury, according to various researchers, the G.I. Bill 
     provided a tremendous return on investment of $7 to the 
     United States economy for every $1 spent on the program, 
     triggering a half-century of prosperity in the United States;
       (7) after Hurricane Hugo in 1989, The American Legion 
     established the National Emergency Fund to provide immediate 
     cash relief for veterans who have been affected by natural 
     disasters;
       (8) American Legion National Emergency Fund grants after 
     Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, for instance, exceeded 
     $1,700,000;
       (9) The American Legion fought to see the Veterans 
     Administration elevated to Cabinet-level status as the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, ensuring support for veterans 
     would be set at the highest level of the Federal Government, 
     as a priority issue for the President;
       (10) after a decades-long struggle to improve the 
     adjudication process for veterans disputing claims decisions, 
     The American Legion helped shape and introduce the Veterans 
     Reassurance Act to create a venue for judicial review of 
     veterans' appeals;
       (11) building on these efforts, legislation was passed in 
     1988 to create the United States Court of Veterans Appeals, 
     today known as the United States Court of Appeals for 
     Veterans Claims;
       (12) The American Legion created the American Legacy 
     Scholarship Fund for children of military members killed on 
     active duty on or after September 11, 2001;
       (13) in 2016, The American Legion's National Executive 
     Committee amended the original scholarship criteria to 
     include children of veterans with 50 percent or greater VA 
     disability ratings;
       (14) President George W. Bush signed into law the Post-9/11 
     Veterans Educational Assistance Act (title V of the 
     Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008; 122 Stat. 2357), a 
     next-generation G.I. Bill strongly supported by The American 
     Legion and the most comprehensive educational benefits 
     package since the original G.I. Bill of Rights was enacted in 
     1944;
       (15) in August 2018, The American Legion will begin its 
     centennial recognition at the 100th National Convention in 
     Minneapolis, Minnesota, the site of the first American Legion 
     National Convention; and
       (16) in March 2019, the organization will celebrate its 
     100th birthday in Paris, France, and September 16, 2019, will 
     mark the 100th anniversary of The American Legion's Federal 
     charter.

     SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

       (a) Denominations.--In recognition and celebration of the 
     100th anniversary of The American Legion, the Secretary of 
     the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the 
     ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue the following coins:
       (1) $5 gold coins.--Not more than 50,000 $5 coins, which 
     shall--
       (A) weigh 8.359 grams;
       (B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
       (C) contain not less than 90 percent gold.
       (2) $1 silver coins.--Not more than 400,000 $1 coins, which 
     shall--
       (A) weigh 26.73 grams;
       (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
       (C) contain not less than 90 percent silver.
       (3) Half-dollar clad coins.--Not more than 750,000 half-
     dollar coins which shall--
       (A) weigh 11.34 grams;
       (B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
       (C) be minted to the specifications for half-dollar coins 
     contained in section 5112(b) of title 31, United States Code.
       (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this Act shall be 
     legal tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United 
     States Code.
       (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of sections 5134 and 
     5136 of title 31, United States Code, all coins minted under 
     this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.

     SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.

       (a) In General.--The design for the coins minted under this 
     Act shall be emblematic of The American Legion.
       (b) Designations and Inscriptions.--On each coin minted 
     under this Act there shall be--
       (1) a designation of the denomination of the coin;
       (2) an inscription of the year ``2019''; and
       (3) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God We 
     Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus 
     Unum''.
       (c) Selection.--The design for the coins minted under this 
     Act shall be--
       (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with--
       (A) the Commission of Fine Arts; and
       (B) the Adjutant of The American Legion, as defined in the 
     constitution and bylaws of The American Legion; and
       (2) reviewed by the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory 
     Committee.

     SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

       (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this Act shall be 
     issued in uncirculated and proof qualities.
       (b) Period for Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins 
     minted under this Act only during the 1-year period beginning 
     on January 1, 2019.

     SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.

       (a) Sale Price.--The coins issued under this Act shall be 
     sold by the Secretary at a price based upon the sum of--
       (1) the face value of the coins;
       (2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a) with respect to 
     such coins; and
       (3) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including 
     labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
     marketing, and shipping).
       (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the 
     coins issued under this Act at a reasonable discount.
       (c) Prepaid Orders.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
     for the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of 
     such coins.
       (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
     under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.

     SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.

       (a) In General.--All sales of coins minted under this Act 
     shall include a surcharge as follows:
       (1) A surcharge of $35 per coin for the $5 coin.
       (2) A surcharge of $10 per coin for the $1 coin described 
     under section 3(a)(2).
       (3) A surcharge of $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin.
       (b) Distribution.--Subject to section 5134(f) of title 31, 
     United States Code, all surcharges received by the Secretary 
     from the sale of coins issued under this Act shall be 
     promptly paid by the Secretary to The American Legion for 
     costs related to--
       (1) promoting the importance of and caring for those who 
     have served in uniform, ensuring they receive proper health 
     care and disability benefits earned through military service;
       (2) promoting the importance of, and caring for, those who 
     are still serving in the Armed Forces;
       (3) promoting the importance of maintaining the patriotic 
     values, morals, culture, and citizenship of the United 
     States; and
       (4) promoting the importance of maintaining strong 
     families, assistance for at-risk children, and activities 
     that promote their healthy and wholesome development.
       (c) Limitation.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), no 
     surcharge may be included with respect to the issuance under 
     this Act of any coin during a calendar year if, as of the 
     time of such issuance, the issuance of such coin would result 
     in the number of commemorative coin programs issued during 
     such year to exceed the annual commemorative coin program 
     issuance limitation under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, 
     United States Code (as in effect on the date of the enactment 
     of this Act). The Secretary of the Treasury may issue 
     guidance to carry out this subsection.
       (d) Audit.--The recipient described under subsection (b) 
     shall be subject to the audit requirements of section 
     5134(f)(2) of title 31, United States Code, with regard to 
     the amounts received under subsection (b).

     SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.

       The Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary 
     to ensure that--
       (1) minting and issuing coins under this Act will not 
     result in any net cost to the United States Government; and
       (2) no funds, including applicable surcharges, are 
     disbursed to the recipient designated in section 7 until the 
     total cost of designing and issuing all of the coins 
     authorized by this Act (including labor, materials, dies, use 
     of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping) is 
     recovered by the United States Treasury, consistent with 
     sections 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United States Code.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Barr) and the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gonzalez) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky.


                             General Leave

  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Kentucky?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2519, The American 
Legion 100th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act, which would require 
the Department of the Treasury to mint and issue commemorative coins in 
recognition and celebration of the 100th anniversary of The American 
Legion.
  For nearly 100 years, The American Legion, which was formed for 
veterans and by veterans, through the support of Congress, has helped 
to provide services to wartime veterans and the communities in which 
they live across the United States and the globe.
  On March 27, 1919, Theodore Roosevelt sent a telegram to Mr. William 
Marshall Bullitt of Louisville, Kentucky, and many more respected 
military wartime veteran leaders across the country which announced: 
``A conference will be held at St. Louis about May 1 for the purpose of 
organizing an association composed of those who

[[Page H7454]]

have been in the land and naval forces of the United States in this 
war. A convention held in France has already organized forces there in 
an association called The American Legion and will have its 
representatives at this convention.''
  Shortly after this first national gathering of unified veterans held 
in St. Louis, Missouri, the United States Congress officially chartered 
The American Legion on September 16, 1919.
  Since this charter, The American Legion has grown to be one of the 
most influential, nonpartisan, nonprofit, and the largest veterans 
service organization in the United States, with a standing membership 
of over 2.4 million veterans in 14,000 posts worldwide.
  The Legion annually raises millions of dollars in donations at the 
local, State, and national levels to help veterans and their families 
during times of need and to provide college scholarships and other 
opportunities for deserving students.
  Even in the Sixth Congressional District of Kentucky, which I proudly 
represent, The American Legion continues to be a strong and aggressive 
advocate for wartime veteran-centered issues. Just yesterday, I met 
with many of The American Legion Nicholasville Post veterans right 
there serving and honoring the Gold Star families at Camp Nelson in 
Jessamine County, Kentucky.
  The American Legion Department of Kentucky has established 139 posts, 
3 areas, and 11 districts in our Commonwealth of 120 counties. The 
American Legion continues to strive to achieve what has always been 
held as a sacred duty to every good American since General George 
Washington's vision to promote the importance of providing provisions 
for the adequate care for war disabled veterans and their families.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  I rise today in support of H.R. 2519, legislation that calls for the 
issuance of a commemorative coin in honor of the 100th anniversary of 
The American Legion, a distinguished organization that works tirelessly 
in communities across the Nation to serve our veterans and those still 
in the Armed Forces.
  Since being chartered by Congress following the First World War, The 
American Legion has played a pivotal role in the lives of so many 
servicemembers and their families, always stepping up and lending a 
hand to those who need it most. For example, The American Legion 
provides key services, such as healthcare claims assistance for 
veterans and job fairs. They support targeted efforts to meet the needs 
of homeless veterans.
  The American Legion also supports military personnel and their 
families through the provision of financial assistance and comfort 
items for hospitalized veterans and, also, dedicated funds to support 
the needs of youth at risk.
  Over its history, The American Legion has also advocated and played a 
leading role in securing the passage of key laws that better the lives 
of our servicemembers, such as the landmark GI Bill, as well as the 
Veterans' Reassurance Act and the Post-911 Veteran Education Assistance 
Act.
  In addition to honoring and raising awareness of the important work 
of The American Legion, the legislation before us will also help raise 
small sums that will help it carry out its tremendous work and advance 
American values. Specifically, surcharge proceeds raised through the 
sale of the coin provided in this bill will allow The American Legion 
to advance the interests of those who have served in uniform and ensure 
they receive the proper healthcare and disability benefits earned 
through military service; promote the importance of and caring for 
those who are still serving in the Armed Forces; promote the patriotic 
values, morals, culture, and citizenship of the United States; and 
provide support for at-risk children and activities that nurture their 
development.
  This overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation has the support of more 
than 350 Members of the House and has already received the unanimous 
support of the United States Senate, where the legislation passed by 
voice vote.
  For all these reasons, I urge my colleagues to join me in the passage 
of this bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Neal).

  Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I stand in support of H.R. 1235, the Naismith 
Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Commemorative Coin Act, which I 
introduced along with my colleague from Kentucky (Mr. Barr).
  People in Kentucky think that they invented basketball. It was 
actually invented in Massachusetts. But I want to thank him personally, 
as well as professionally, for the good work that he has done in 
helping to bring about this day.
  As the Hall of Fame celebrates its 125th anniversary of the invention 
of basketball, this commemorative coin symbolizes all the sport has 
accomplished since its humble beginnings in a YMCA gymnasium in 
Springfield, Massachusetts. This truly American game continues to be 
played by men and women at every level and on every continent.
  In December of 1891, a physical education professor named Dr. James 
Naismith created a game with a simple objective: throw a round ball 
into a peach basket that was suspended 10 feet above the ground. While 
only one basket was made available during those first games, it would 
soon become quite popular with students.
  Thanks to the network of YMCAs throughout the country and the game's 
success on various college campuses, the sport soon became a national 
phenomenon. By 1894, basketball was being played around the Nation and 
in dozens of countries around the world.
  During the 1920s and 1930s, teams like the Original Celtics and the 
New York Renaissance carried professional basketball to the national 
conscience for the first time.

                              {time}  1630

  Internationally, popularity of the new sport from America led to the 
formation of the International Basketball Federation, which was pivotal 
in adding basketball to the Summer Olympic Games in 1936. Eventually, 
the National Basketball Association was founded in 1946, and continues 
to enjoy great success.
  The Basketball Hall of Fame inducted its first class in 1959, despite 
the lack of any physical structure. They would get their first home on 
the campus of Springfield College in 1968, just a short way from the 
game's first site.
  Thousands of visitors came to the campus to see memorabilia and be 
inspired by the stories of the sport's early days. As the game 
skyrocketed in national popularity in the 1980s, with icons like Larry 
Bird, Magic Johnson, and Michael Jordan, the Hall of Fame found the 
need to expand. As the mayor of Springfield at the time, I helped to 
ensure a location on the banks of the Connecticut River.
  In 1985, the Hall reopened with a three-level museum with hundreds of 
pieces of memorabilia and displays. The admiration for the sport forced 
the Hall to expand once again, in 2002, with a state-of-the-art 
structure just steps away from the old facility.
  Today, the Hall welcomes 6 million visitors annually. They are 
dazzled with its interactive displays and exhibits. As of this year, 
the Hall has inducted 365 of the greatest players, coaches, and 
referees. Players like Wilt Chamberlain, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Bill 
Bradley, and coaches like John Wooden and Pat Summitt have been honored 
for their contributions to the sport. The Basketball Hall of Fame 
commemorative coin is the ideal way for the legacy of these great 
athletes and coaches to be remembered for decades to come.
  With no cost to the American taxpayer, the surcharges on these coins 
will go to further the museum's curation efforts. The proceeds will 
also go toward educational programs to promote good sportsmanship and 
respect on and off the court.
  Mr. Speaker, I have worked with the Hall of Fame on multiple projects 
for more than 30 years. It is a terrific tax-exempt organization that 
works tirelessly to preserve the history and educate people about this 
truly American game.

[[Page H7455]]

  I believe that basketball instills the virtues that this country was 
built upon and gives Americans someone to aspire to be. As former NBA 
player and United States Senator Bill Bradley put it: ``Sports is a 
metaphor for overcoming obstacles and achieving against great odds. 
Athletes, in times of difficulty, can be important role models.''
  For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1235, and a 
special note of thanks to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gonzalez) for 
keeping the debate open so that I could actually speak on this.
  Again, as I close, I thank the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Barr). He 
was terrific in his help on this bill.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman from Massachusetts and his 
leadership. I do recognize the great game of basketball was, in fact, 
invented in Massachusetts. That is okay, because Massachusetts gave us 
Coach Calipari along the way. We really appreciate his leadership.
  This would not have happened without the leadership of the gentleman 
from Massachusetts. It is my honor to work with him on this bipartisan 
piece of legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to vote ``yes'' on The American 
Legion 100th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may 
consume to the gentlewoman from the District of Columbia (Ms. Norton).
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise in honor of the first woman to be 
national commander of The American Legion. Her name is Denise Rohan. 
She knows that this is a milestone. Therefore, she is very proud to 
have been named to this position. She says: ``It is about time.''
  From Ms. Rohan's perspective, women have always been leaders in the 
Legion. I am sure most of us didn't even know that.
  She says: ``If you look back, women were post commanders early on. We 
have been in leadership positions. If we weren't leading from the 
front, we were still there, helping the organization along.''
  She says she doesn't think of herself as a female legionnaire. She 
says: ``I want to be known as a great American Legion leader who 
happens to be a woman. I have been working hard for the Legion for more 
than 30 years and am humbled''--that the Legion--``chose me to be 
national commander. It is an honor.''
  She was elected at the Legion's 99th national convention in Reno, 
Nevada, in August. She herself, of course, is an Army veteran and the 
second national commander from Wisconsin. She and her husband, Mike, 
belong to Mason Lindsay Post 385 in Verona. I am sure she would want 
that known here on the floor. They have lived 30 years in Sun Prairie.

  Members have supported Ms. Rohan for a long time and are excited to 
see her at the top. She is regarded as very capable, outgoing, 
friendly, and able to bring people to a consensus.
  Her parents, Joe and Dorothy Hulbert, set a strong example for three 
daughters. Both were volunteers and active in the local United Church 
of Christ.
  She first encountered the Legion as a girl at Memorial Day services 
in a Catholic cemetery near her home. She waited patiently to receive a 
spent brass shell casing from the honor guard to use as a whistle.
  ``The town always had a parade that started at the cemetery, came 
down the hill, went across the bridge and ended up at another cemetery 
on the other side of the river,'' Ms. Rohan said. ``There was only one 
parade I remember going the other way, when they brought home the body 
of someone killed in Vietnam. It began at the high school and went up 
the hill. That memory stayed with me.''
  Still, the idea of serving in the military herself certainly didn't 
occur to Ms. Rohan until a high school friend asked her and another 
girl to accompany her to Des Moines for an Army physical. Her friend 
failed, they passed, and Rohan had a choice. Unsure what she wanted to 
do with her life and reluctant to ask her parents to put a third child 
through college, she joined under the buddy system in 1974.
  For a person who struggled with homesickness--that is what she called 
it: homesickness--she got along just fine.
  ``Somehow my mother lived through me sobbing on the phone every 
single call for a couple of weeks,'' Ms. Rohan said. ``Then I started 
realizing that I had another family: the women in basic training with 
me. They had my back, they made sure I was taken care of, and we became 
sisters.''
  At Fort Lee, Virginia, she completed quartermaster school and was the 
outstanding graduate of her class. Needing female instructors, the Army 
sent Ms. Rohan to more training. That is where she met Mike, who was 
working as a television production specialist.
  ``I had to have some time in the studio,'' she said, teasing him. 
``My roommate at the time was a runner-up for Miss West Virginia the 
year before she joined the Army, so here is this beautiful blonde who 
probably did really good on camera because she was used to that kind of 
stuff. He doesn't remember meeting me that day.''
  By Mike's recollection, they met through a mutual friend a couple of 
months later. He soon realized this girl had the qualities his mother 
told him to seek in a woman--and more.
  ``She never once told me to look for someone who could shoot an M-16, 
or crawl under barbed wire with live fire going on, or run 2 miles with 
a rucksack on her back, but that is what I found,'' he says. ``Denise 
has all those abilities of a soldier but is also a loving wife and 
mother.''
  They started dating, fell in love, and Mike got orders to go to 
Korea. About the same time, Rohan was up for reenlistment. Wanting to 
stay together, they were married by a justice of the peace during one 
of Rohan's morning breaks. Their reception was at McDonald's. ``That is 
our romantic place we go every year, on May 21,'' she says.
  Women are veterans, too. In the end, the Army couldn't guarantee 
Rohan an assignment overseas, so she left the service and became an 
Army wife. Of course, that would not be the case today.
  Over the next few years, the couple lived in Korea, Texas, and, 
finally, Wisconsin. Mike spent the first half of his career as 
enlisted, then became a warrant officer in the National Guard.
  Meanwhile, Rohan built her own career at the University of Wisconsin-
Madison, starting as a program assistant in the student loan office. 
She eventually rose to the position of assistant bursar, managing a 
$120 million loan officer portfolio and helping to develop a 
computerized system to manage it all. She retired in 2012, after 29 
years. She is missed a lot, say those who worked with her and under 
her.
  Ms. Rohan's American Legion career has had a similar trajectory. She 
joined in 1984, when the new commander of Post 333 in Sun Prairie, a 
friend of Mike's, recruited her to join so she could serve as adjunct.
  She laughs when she recalls an older veteran who was flustered by a 
woman's presence at the meetings. He was saying something, swore, and 
then he took his cap off and said: ``I am sorry, I didn't mean to be 
disrespectful.'' Later, he did it again. He said: ``I just don't know 
how I am going to do this.'' She told him: ``Hey, I was in the Army, 
too. I have heard those words before.''
  Ms. Rohan really found her spot in the Sun Prairie Post when she was 
coordinating community blood drives: four a year, for two decades. 
``Each pint of blood can help three people, and we collected hundreds 
at each drive,'' she says. ``The volunteers kept coming back, the 
donors kept coming back. It makes you feel like you are making a 
difference.''
  From there, Ms. Rohan's reputation for hard work and willingness to 
serve opened door after door: district adjutant and commander, 
department historian--she is a four-time winner of the National 
American Legion Historian contest--and department commander.
  On the national level, she is a former chair of the Veterans 
Employment and Education Commission, as well as the National Membership 
and Post Activities Committee.
  Along the way, she volunteered for dozens of smaller jobs that have 
cemented the Legion's place in her community, like chartering a Boy 
Scouts

[[Page H7456]]

troop, organizing children's Christmas parties, and assembling troop 
care packages.
  None of it would have happened if Ms. Rohan was the sort to hold 
grudges, however. When the couple lived briefly in Marshall, Wisconsin, 
a member of the local American Legion came by to recruit Mike.

                              {time}  1645

  Rohan identified herself as an eligible veteran, but the Legion 
recruiter told her that women could join the auxiliary only.
  Years later, the Marshall Post realized its mistake and hung a photo 
of Ms. Rohan, then district commander, behind a sign that says: 
``Remember, women are veterans, too.''
  Today, the Marshall Post is one of her biggest supporters. ``I 
promised they would get one of my first national commander photos to 
put in that frame,'' she says. ``We can do that,'' is what Rohan has 
become known for. Her name is known in more than just Legion circles.
  At the Wisconsin National Guard Armory in Madison, she and her 
husband are Aunt Denise and Uncle Mike. Since 2006, they frequented 
drill weekends so often that young servicemen sometimes assumed they 
are part of their unit.
  Facing a rough situation with a soldier fresh off deployment and 
needing resources fast, Staff Sergeant Dan Killam was told to talk to 
the Rohans at the Legion. That call led to an unbelievable amount of 
care for troops and their families.
  When soldiers needed satellite phone minutes to call home after a 
battle, the Wisconsin Legion family raised $50,000. At a spur run for 
the 105th Calvary, Legionnaires fed nearly 500 people.
  I think after this lengthy--but I think much deserved--report on the 
first woman to head The American Legion, we understand why the bill 
that comes before us is much deserved.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, may I ask how much time I have remaining?
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Kentucky has 14 minutes 
remaining. The time of the gentleman from Texas has expired.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, once again, in support of The American Legion 100th 
Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act, I want to share a story from just 
yesterday in Nicholasville, Kentucky, where The American Legion was 
there, as they always are, supporting our veteran families.
  We were at Camp Nelson--which was originally a Union Army cemetery, 
but since the Civil War, has become a final resting place for many of 
our heroes--yesterday to honor many of the Kentucky Gold Star families 
who had lost loved ones, heroes, in the war on terror.
  The first one was a U.S. Naval officer killed on September 11, 2001, 
in the Pentagon. And most recently, Captain Matthew Roland, a captain 
in the United States Air Force, was killed in action in August of 2015 
in Afghanistan. And the families of these fallen heroes were there. We 
were there to honor those fallen heroes and unveil a dedication, a 
memorial to those Gold Star families who had sacrificed so much. Not 
only did those heroes sacrifice everything for this country, but those 
families have sacrificed because they have lost their loved ones, and 
they are missing anniversaries, birthdays, and their children growing 
up and walking down the aisle.
  But who was there to honor those Gold Star families?
  The American Legion. And The American Legion was there holding those 
American flags high, and they were there to deliver the three-volley 
salute in honor of those fallen heroes.
  The American Legion is, first and foremost, a local organization. 
They pride themselves in that, and that is what they were in Jessamine 
County, Kentucky, honoring those Gold Star families. Yes, they 
represent a country of heroes and servicemembers and veterans, but they 
are local, and they showed that yesterday in the Sixth Congressional 
District of Kentucky, and they show that all over this country.
  I would just note also, Mr. Speaker, that when we think of how to 
honor our veterans, we have to remember what General George 
Washington--who, of course, was the Founder of our country, and who, of 
course, was that famous general during the American Revolution who 
arguably was the first veteran--said. And what General Washington--
President Washington famously said about our country and veterans was 
that the willingness with which our young people are likely to serve in 
any war, no matter how justified, shall be directly proportional to how 
they perceive veterans of earlier wars and how they were treated and 
appreciated by our Nation.
  The American Legion embodies that. They are a group of patriots, of 
veterans who know that it is critically important to instill in other 
Americans the importance of patriotism, love of our country, love of 
the American flag, so they help us and future generations respect our 
veterans and their service and their sacrifice.
  We appreciate the fact that we have a piece of legislation before 
this body today that honors that great organization--The American 
Legion--that provides that level of patriotism and support to our men 
and women in uniform and veterans who have served this country so 
heroically and patriotically.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. Walz), the legislation's sponsor.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me the time 
and, more importantly, for his eloquent words. I appreciate the support 
both for The American Legion and for this piece of legislation.

  Mr. Speaker, thank you for bringing the bill to the floor, H.R. 2519, 
The American Legion 100th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act, for a 
vote today.
  For nearly a century, The American Legion has worked tirelessly day 
and night to improve the lives of veterans and their families. For that 
reason, words cannot express the gratitude that we have for the men and 
women of The American Legion.
  As both a veteran and a legislator, I see firsthand the results they 
achieve for veterans on a daily basis.
  This bipartisan piece of legislation has the support of over 370 of 
our peers, including the entirety of the House Veterans' Affairs 
Committee, the Financial Services Committee, and the majority and 
minority leaders.
  The Senate has passed a similar piece of legislation, and I look 
forward to continue working to get this to the President's desk.
  These commemorative coins are just a small token of thanks to show 
the millions of American Legion members that we appreciate what they do 
for our servicemembers, for our veterans, for our national security, 
and for our local communities.
  In full disclosure, Mr. Speaker, as a longtime member of The American 
Legion, I am proud to stand here sponsoring this piece of legislation. 
I look forward to it being signed into law, and then I look forward to 
Americans getting a piece of this history that we should all be proud 
of.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Barr) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 2519, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



