

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6223]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Grassley, 
             and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 1881. A bill to expand eligibility for health care under 
     the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 
     to include certain veterans seeking mental health care, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Manchin, 
             Mr. Brown, Mrs. Shaheen, and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 1882. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     require the Attorney General to make procurement quotas for 
     opioid analgesics publicly available, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Schumer, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 1883. A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation 
     to publish a final rule to provide for the screening, 
     testing, and treatment for sleep disorders of individuals 
     operating commercial vehicles; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 1884. A bill to provide for joint reports by relevant 
     Federal agencies to Congress regarding incidents of 
     terrorism, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Blunt, and 
             Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 1885. A bill to support the development of highly 
     automated vehicle safety technologies, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. LANKFORD:
       S. 1886. A bill to amend subchapter I of chapter 31 of 
     title 5, United States Code, to authorize agencies to make 
     noncompetitive temporary and term appointments in the 
     competitive service; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD:
       S. 1887. A bill to grant expedited hiring authority to the 
     head of an agency to appoint college graduates and post-
     secondary students; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD:
       S. 1888. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     increase the maximum amount of a Voluntary Separation 
     Incentive Payment and to include an annual adjustment in 
     accordance with the Consumer Price Index; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Capito, 
             Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Blumenthal, and Ms. 
             Hassan):
       S. 1889. A bill to require Federal agencies and Federal 
     courts to comply with address confidentiality programs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Blunt, and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 1890. A bill to improve the understanding of, and 
     promote access to treatment for, chronic kidney disease, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN:
       S. 1891. A bill to promote peace and justice in 
     Afghanistan, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1892. A bill to provide tax relief related to Hurricanes 
     Harvey, Irma, and Maria; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 1893. A bill to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
     and Consumer Protection Act to specify when bank holding 
     companies may be subject to certain enhanced supervision, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAIN (for himself, Mr. Lee, Mr. Lankford, and 
             Mr. Flake):
       S. 1894. A bill to exempt Puerto Rico from the coastwise 
     laws of the United States (commonly known as the ``Jones 
     Act'' ); read the first time.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Franken, and 
             Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1895. A bill to reauthorize the Native American Housing 
     Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. JOHNSON:
       S. 1896. A bill to amend section 8331 of title 5, United 
     States Code, and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to 
     clarify the treatment of availability pay for Federal air 
     marshals and criminal investigators of the Transportation 
     Security Administration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mrs. Shaheen, and Mr. 
             Peters):
       S. 1897. A bill to help small businesses access capital and 
     create jobs by reauthorizing the successful State Small 
     Business Credit Initiative; to the Committee on Small 
     Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. DAINES:
       S. 1898. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to retroactively repeal the individual mandate for health 
     insurance; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mrs. Capito, 
             Mr. Carper, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Cardin, Ms. Collins, 
             Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Wicker, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 1899. A bill to reauthorize and extend funding for 
     community health centers and the National Health Service 
     Corps; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
       S. 1900. A bill to require all persons who acquire, 
     maintain, or use personal information to have in effect 
     reasonable cybersecurity protections and practices whenever 
     acquiring, maintaining, or using personal information in 
     commerce, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

                          ____________________



