

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7262-S7263]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 16

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Montana (Mr. 
Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 16, a bill to require a full 
audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
Federal reserve banks by the Comptroller General of

[[Page S7263]]

the United States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect victims of 
domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence from 
emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or 
threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 374, a bill to enable concrete 
masonry products manufacturers to establish, finance, and carry out a 
coordinated program of research, education, and promotion to improve, 
maintain, and develop markets for concrete masonry products.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of certain 
lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable medical 
equipment.


                                 S. 537

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 537, a bill to amend 
title 9 of the United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act 
to increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative care at 
accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing schools, 
social work schools, and other programs, including physician assistant 
education programs, to promote education and research in palliative 
care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty careers in 
academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 925

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 925, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the ability of health care 
professionals to treat veterans through the use of telemedicine, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1169, a bill to amend 
title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide States with an option 
to provide medical assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 
64 for inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at certain 
facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse 
practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, 
intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1539, a bill to 
protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill to authorize 
the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of the end of 
World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home 
infusion therapy services temporary transitional payment under the 
Medicare program.


                                S. 1901

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1901, a bill to require global 
economic and political pressure to support diplomatic denuclearization 
of the Korean Peninsula, including through the imposition of sanctions 
with respect to the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea and any enablers of the activities of that Government, and to 
reauthorize the North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2088

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. 
Shaheen), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton), the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2088, a bill to amend title 10, United 
States Code, to provide for the issuance of the Gold Star Installation 
Access Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, and other next 
of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while serving on 
certain active or reserve duty, to ensure that a remarried surviving 
spouse with dependent children of the deceased member remains eligible 
for installation benefits to which the surviving spouse was previously 
eligible, and for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 49

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 49, a 
resolution declaring that achieving the primary goal of the National 
Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease of the Department of Health and 
Human Services to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer's disease by 
2025 is an urgent national priority.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.

                          ____________________



