

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7421-H7423]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 3771. A bill to ensure independent investigations by 
     allowing judicial review of the removal of a special counsel, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself and Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 3772. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to provide specific credit risk retention requirements 
     to certain qualifying collateralized loan obligations; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Ms. Pelosi, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Sablan, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Takano, Ms. Adams, Ms. 
             Fudge, Ms. Moore, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Walz, Ms. Speier, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Lee, Mr. Cleaver, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Mr. Vargas, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Ms. Bass, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Payne, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Welch, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Rush, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. DelBene, and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 3773. A bill to amend the Child Care and Development 
     Block Grant Act of 1990 and the Head Start Act to promote 
     child care and early learning, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. MESSER (for himself, Mr. Polis, Mr. Ferguson, 
             Mr. Garrett, and Mr. Perlmutter):
       H.R. 3774. A bill to amend the General Education Provisions 
     Act to allow the release of education records to facilitate 
     the award of a recognized postsecondary credential; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SMITH of Texas (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Jones, Mr. Marchant, 
             Mr. Brat, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Francis Rooney 
             of Florida, Mr. Hunter, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. Davidson, Mr. 
             Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Harris, and Mr. Perry):
       H.R. 3775. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to establish a skills-based immigration points system, to 
     focus family-sponsored immigration on spouses and minor 
     children, to eliminate the Diversity Visa Program, to set a 
     limit on the number of refugees admitted annually to the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             McCaul, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Fitzpatrick, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Ruppersberger, 
             Mr. Yoho, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Wagner, and Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3776. A bill to support United States international 
     cyber diplomacy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. LOVE:
       H.R. 3777. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     convey certain National Forest System land containing the 
     Nephi Work Center in Juab County, Utah, to Juab County; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself and Mrs. Davis of 
             California):
       H.R. 3778. A bill to award grants for the recruitment, 
     retention, and advancement of direct care workers; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Mr. Raskin, and 
             Mr. Delaney):
       H.R. 3779. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to develop a plan for the removal of the monument to Robert 
     E. Lee at the Antietam National Battlefield, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Jenkins of 
             Kansas, and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 3780. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide under the Medicare program for 
     conditions of participation, reporting requirements, and a 
     quality program with respect to air ambulance services; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Mr. LaMalfa, and Mr. 
             Ruiz):
       H.R. 3781. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, to 
     develop guidelines regarding the use by the Secretaries of 
     the military departments and the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs of unofficial sources of information to determine the 
     eligibility of a member or former member of the Armed Forces 
     for benefits and decorations when the member's service 
     records are incomplete because of damage to the records, 
     including records damaged by a 1973 fire at the National 
     Personnel Records Center in St. Louis, Missouri; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Ms. Matsui, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Schneider, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of

[[Page H7422]]

             California, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Engel, Mr. Evans, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Langevin, Ms. Lee, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and Ms. 
             Hanabusa):
       H.R. 3782. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to develop a national strategic action plan 
     and program to assist health professionals in preparing for 
     and responding to the public health effects of climate 
     change, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Lawson of Florida, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Eshoo, 
             Mr. Rush, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Norton, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Butterfield, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Fudge, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Takano, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, and 
             Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 3783. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     prohibit the use of consumer credit checks against 
     prospective and current employees for the purposes of making 
     adverse employment decisions; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON (for himself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Poliquin, and Mr. Espaillat):
       H.R. 3784. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to clarify the treatment of technical errors in applications 
     for Federal TRIO programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
       H.R. 3785. A bill to provide support for the development of 
     middle school career exploration programs linked to career 
     and technical education programs of study; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KILDEE (for himself, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             Huizenga, and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 3786. A bill to require the Under Secretary for Oceans 
     and Atmosphere to update periodically the environmental 
     sensitivity index products of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration for each coastal area of the Great 
     Lakes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Mr. Schrader):
       H.R. 3787. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to provide for streamlined procedures for waiver petitions 
     seeking relief for small entities from regulations issued by 
     the Federal Communications Commission, to require the 
     Commission to defer the application of new regulations to 
     small entities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Engel, 
             Mr. Tonko, Mr. Welch, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Capuano, Mr. Sires, Mr. Keating, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Norcross, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Payne, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 3788. A bill to amend the Energy Policy and 
     Conservation Act to provide for a Northeast Gasoline Supply 
     Reserve, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Yoder, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Takano, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Serrano, and 
             Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 3789. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers 
     for Disease Control and Prevention, and in consultation with 
     the Secretary of Education and the President's Council on 
     Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition, to conduct a study on the 
     causes of deaths related to high school football and 
     formulate recommendations to prevent such deaths; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 3790. A bill to amend chapter 44 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to enhance penalties for certain thefts of a 
     firearm from certain Federal firearms licensees, and to 
     criminalize the theft of a firearm from a gun range that 
     rents firearms or a shooting club; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Walden, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 3791. A bill to ensure that United States Government 
     personnel, including members of the Armed Forces and 
     contractors, assigned to United States diplomatic missions 
     are given the opportunity to designate next-of-kin for 
     certain purposes in the event of the death of the personnel; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr. Donovan, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. McGovern, Mr. LoBiondo, 
             Mr. Cardenas, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 3792. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act to 
     require that covered persons develop and implement emergency 
     contingency plans; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mrs. TORRES:
       H.R. 3793. A bill to require the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to consider the appropriate inclusion of 
     residential manufactured homes in certain programs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. VARGAS:
       H.R. 3794. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army, 
     acting through the Chief of Engineers, to carry out a program 
     to prevent flooding and wastewater, sewage, trash, and 
     sediment spills in the Tijuana River Valley, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. VARGAS (for himself and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 3795. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army, 
     acting through the Chief of Engineers, to carry out a 
     comprehensive protection and rehabilitation program for the 
     Tijuana River Valley, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. VEASEY:
       H.R. 3796. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to assist in the support of children living in poverty 
     by allowing a refundable credit to grandparents of those 
     children for the purchase of household items for the benefit 
     of those children, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. WALKER:
       H.R. 3797. A bill to withhold United States contributions 
     to the regularly assessed biennial budget of the United 
     Nations until the United Nations adopts a definition of 
     ``international terrorism`` concurrent with United States 
     laws, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Yoho, 
             Mr. Peterson, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Wilson of 
             South Carolina, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. 
             Flores, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Tipton, and Mr. 
             McCaul):
       H.R. 3798. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the 30-hour threshold for classification as a 
     full-time employee for purposes of the employer mandate in 
     the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and replace it 
     with 40 hours; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Rush, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             Mr. Payne, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, and Mr. Carson of Indiana):
       H.R. 3799. A bill to direct the Justice Department to 
     pursue civil actions to eliminate patterns or practices of 
     civil rights violations by police, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 3800. A bill to eliminate mandatory minimum sentences 
     for all drug offenses; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. Gutierrez):
       H. Con. Res. 79. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that Congress and the States should consider a 
     constitutional amendment to reform the Electoral College and 
     establish a process for electing the President and Vice 
     President by a national popular vote and should encourage 
     individual States to continue to reform the Electoral College 
     process through such steps as the formation of an interstate 
     compact to award the majority of Electoral College votes to 
     the national popular vote winner; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Vela, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, 
             Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Lee, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Meeks, Ms. Moore, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, and Mr. Raskin):

[[Page H7423]]

  

       H. Res. 520. A resolution expressing solidarity with, and 
     pledging support and assistance to, victims of Hurricane 
     Harvey, commending the first responders and civilian 
     volunteers who saved lives threatened by Hurricane Harvey, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself and Mrs. 
             Dingell):
       H. Res. 521. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives about a strategy to deploy fifth 
     generation mobile networks (5G networks) and next-generation 
     wireless and wired technologies to promote economic 
     development and digital innovation throughout the United 
     States; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself and Mr. Engel):
       H. Res. 522. A resolution recognizing the twentieth 
     anniversary of the International Career Advancement Program; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Ms. Lofgren, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Moore, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. 
             Sherman, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Richmond, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Adams, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Mr. Soto, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Payne, and Mr. Hastings):
       H. Res. 523. A resolution expressing disapproval of any act 
     of the President to grant to himself or any member of his 
     family, including those related solely by marriage, a 
     reprieve or pardon for an offense against the United States; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Al Green of Texas, 
             Mr. Veasey, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Costa, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Castro of Texas, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Larsen 
             of Washington, Ms. Norton, Mr. Correa, Mr. Vargas, 
             Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mr. Pallone, Ms. McCollum, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Mr. Soto, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Evans, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Crowley, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Vela, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Clay, Mrs. Demings, Mr. McEachin, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Ms. Matsui, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mrs. Torres, Mr. 
             Cuellar, Mr. Heck, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Bera, Ms. Titus, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. Bass, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Panetta, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Speier, Mr. Peters, Ms. Sinema, Mrs. 
             Murphy of Florida, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Ms. Eshoo, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             Suozzi, Mr. Huffman, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Conyers, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. 
             Meng, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Capuano, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Michael 
             F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Aguilar, 
             and Mr. Gomez):
       H. Res. 524. A resolution recognizing ispanic Heritage 
     Month and celebrating the heritage and culture of Latinos in 
     the United States and the immense contributions of Latinos to 
     the United States; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CHABOT:
       H. Res. 525. A resolution designating September 16, 2017, 
     as ``Isaac M. Wise Temple Day``; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. HOYER (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Norton, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. McEachin, and Mr. Raskin):
       H. Res. 526. A resolution congratulating the National 
     Federation of Federal Employees on the celebration of its 
     100th anniversary and recognizing its members' vital 
     contributions to the United States; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas:
       H. Res. 527. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week of September 18, 2017, through 
     September 24, 2017, as ``Balance Awareness Week``; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LEVIN:
       H. Res. 528. A resolution condemning horrific acts of 
     violence against Burma's Rohingya population and calling on 
     Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active role in ending this 
     humanitarian tragedy; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



