

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8278]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        RECOGNIZING THE SERIOUSNESS OF POLYCYSTIC OVARY SYNDROME

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee be discharged from 
further consideration of S. Res. 336 and the Senate proceed to its 
immediate consideration.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the resolution by title.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 336) recognizing the seriousness of 
     Polycystic Ovary Syndrome and expressing support for the 
     designation of the month of September 2018 as ``Polycystic 
     Ovary Syndrome Awareness Month.''

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I further ask unanimous consent that the amendment to 
the resolution, which is at the desk, be agreed to, the resolution, as 
amended, be agreed to, the amendment to the preamble, which is at the 
desk, be agreed to, the preamble, as amended, be agreed to, and the 
motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with 
no intervening action or debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment (No. 1866) was agreed to, as follows:

                (Purpose: To amend the resolving clause)

       On page 4, line 5, insert ``and'' after the semicolon.
       On page 4, strike lines 6 through 7.
       On page 4, line 8, strike ``(D)'' and insert ``(C)''.
       On page 4, line 15, strike ``are afflicted with PCOS;'' and 
     insert ``have PCOS; and''.
       On page 4, strike lines 16 through 19.
       On page 4, line 20, strike ``(6)'' and insert ``(5)''.

  The resolution (S. Res. 336), as amended, was agreed to.
  The amendment (No. 1867) was agreed to, as follows:

                    (Purpose: To amend the preamble)

       In the seventh whereas clause of the preamble, strike 
     ``which'' and insert ``and''.
       In the thirteenth whereas clause of the preamble, strike 
     ``up to 80 percent of'' and insert ``many''.
       In the fifteenth whereas clause of the preamble, strike the 
     semicolon at the end and insert ``, which does not include 
     the costs associated with treatment of comorbidities;''.
       Strike the sixteenth whereas clause of the preamble.

  The preamble, as amended, was agreed to.
  The resolution, as amended, with its preamble, as amended, reads as 
follows:

                              S. Res. 336

       Whereas Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (referred to in this 
     preamble as ``PCOS'') is a common health problem among women 
     and girls involving a hormonal imbalance;
       Whereas there is no universal definition of PCOS, but 
     researchers estimate that between 5,000,000 and 10,000,000 
     women in the United States are affected by PCOS;
       Whereas PCOS can affect women from the onset of puberty and 
     throughout the remainder of their lives;
       Whereas the symptoms of PCOS include infertility, irregular 
     or absent menstrual periods, acne, weight gain, thinning 
     scalp hair, excessive facial and body hair growth, numerous 
     small ovarian cysts, pelvic pain, and mental health problems;
       Whereas women with PCOS have higher rates of psychosocial 
     disorders, including depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, 
     and eating disorders, and are at greater risk for suicide;
       Whereas adolescents with PCOS often are not diagnosed;
       Whereas PCOS causes metabolic dysfunction and insulin 
     resistance, and can lead to type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular 
     disease, obstructive sleep apnea, nonalcoholic fatty liver 
     disease, and endometrial cancer at a young adult age;
       Whereas PCOS is the most common cause of female 
     infertility;
       Whereas PCOS in pregnancy is associated with increased risk 
     of gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, pregnancy-induced 
     hypertension, preterm delivery, cesarean delivery, 
     miscarriage, and fetal and infant death;
       Whereas women with PCOS are at increased risk of developing 
     high blood pressure, high cholesterol, stroke, heart 
     disease--the leading cause of death among women--and have a 4 
     to 7 times higher risk of experiencing a heart attack 
     compared to women of the same age who do not have PCOS;
       Whereas women with PCOS have a more than 50 percent chance 
     of developing type 2 diabetes or prediabetes before the age 
     of 40;
       Whereas women with PCOS may be at a higher risk for breast 
     cancer and ovarian cancer, and have a 3 times higher risk for 
     developing endometrial cancer, compared to women who do not 
     have PCOS;
       Whereas many women in the United States with PCOS are 
     overweight or have obesity;
       Whereas an estimated 50 percent of women with PCOS are 
     undiagnosed, and many remain undiagnosed until they 
     experience fertility difficulties or develop type 2 diabetes 
     or other cardiometabolic disorders;
       Whereas the costs involved with the diagnosis and 
     management of PCOS to the healthcare system of the United 
     States is over $4,300,000,000 per year during the 
     reproductive years of patients, which does not include the 
     costs associated with treatment of comorbidities;
       Whereas the cause of PCOS is unknown, but researchers have 
     found strong links to significant insulin resistance, which 
     affects up to 70 percent of women with PCOS, and genetic 
     predisposition; and
       Whereas there is no known cure for PCOS: Now, therefore, be 
     it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) recognizes the seriousness of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome 
     (referred to in this resolving clause as ``PCOS'');
       (2) supports the goals of PCOS Awareness Month--
       (A) to increase awareness of, and education about, PCOS 
     among the general public, women, girls, and healthcare 
     professionals;
       (B) to improve diagnosis and treatment of PCOS; and
       (C) to improve the quality of life and outcomes for women 
     and girls with PCOS;
       (3) recognizes the need for further research, improved 
     treatment and care options, and a cure for PCOS;
       (4) acknowledges the struggles affecting all women and 
     girls residing within the United States who have PCOS; and
       (5) encourages States, territories, and localities to 
     support the goals of PCOS Awareness Month.

                          ____________________



