

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7677-H7678]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           DEVASTATION AND HUMANITARIAN CRISIS IN PUERTO RICO

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Espaillat) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker, any comments that I make in Spanish, I 
will provide translation in English.
  Madam Speaker, I witnessed the devastation and humanitarian crisis 
this weekend when I traveled to the island of Puerto Rico with my 
colleague from Chicago, Illinois, Luis Gutierrez.
  As I traveled throughout the area, I met dozens of emergency workers 
from various cities around our Nation on their way to provide 
assistance to families in Puerto Rico.
  (English translation of the statement made in Spanish is as follows:)
  I had the privilege of travelling to Puerto Rico this weekend along 
with my colleague from the State of Illinois, Congressman Luis 
Gutierrez, and witnessed the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria. But 
most importantly, I saw how the Puerto Rican people has united to work 
in restoring Puerto Rico from its current state. Thousands and 
thousands of people, including Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz and the 
Governor, are compromised with the well-being of the Puerto Rican 
people. I saw firefighters and emergency workers at the Philadelphia 
airport trying to reach Puerto Rico to help their brothers and sisters. 
This has moved me and I understand the Puerto Rican people have a very 
big heart and immense solidarity.
  Tuve el privilegio de viajar este fin de semana a Puerto Rico con mi 
colega del Estado de Illinois, Congresista Luis Gutierrez, y fui 
testigo ocular de la devastacion causada por el Huracan Maria. Pero mas 
importante, vi como el pueblo puertorriqueno se ha unido a trabajar 
para levantar a Puerto Rico del estado donde se encuentra; miles y 
miles de personas, incluyendo la alcaldesa Carmen Yulin Cruz y el mismo 
Gobernador estan comprometidos con el bienestar del pueblo 
puertorriqueno. Vi a bomberos, trabajadores de emergencia, en el 
aeropuerto de Philadelphia tratando de llegar a Puerto Rico para darle 
ayuda a sus hermanos; algo que me ha conmovido y que entiendo que el 
pueblo puertorriqueno tiene un corazon muy grande y una solidaridad 
humana inmensa.
  Madam Speaker, I met with Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello and 
San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz. It bewilders me how someone could 
criticize the mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico, from a cozy clubhouse in 
a well-heeled golf course when she was chest deep in water contaminated 
with toxic fuels and human excrement, bringing help to those who need 
it in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
  We discussed with them efforts currently under way and ways that the 
Federal Government and Congress can improve our response to address 
immediate and long-term goals to help rebuild the island of Puerto Rico 
and the U.S. Virgin Islands--let's not forget them.
  Yesterday, I released a 10-point plan following my assessment, and I 
offer this as a solution to provide an immediate emergency relief 
package for the humanitarian crisis we are witnessing in Puerto Rico 
and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
  It is my hope that we, as Members of Congress, will work together to 
find solutions quickly, as the lives of U.S. citizens and the efforts 
to rebuild have remained encumbered.
  Madam Speaker, I call for an immediate $20 billion emergency relief 
package for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
  Congress needs to act on a humanitarian emergency relief package for 
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands no later than this week. They 
cannot wait another week.
  It is estimated that Puerto Rico will need $85 billion for their 
recovery efforts. At a minimum, Congress need to enact a $20 billion 
emergency relief package for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
  Also, I call for a hearing on Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands 
recovery efforts. A congressional task force for coordinated relief 
efforts must be put in place. The delayed response in Puerto Rico was 
egregious.
  I join my colleagues in calling for a hearing on Puerto Rico and U.S. 
Virgin Islands recovery efforts and for a full assessment on how to 
mitigate delayed reactions in the future and a strategic plan on a 
long-term recovery effort not only for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin 
Islands, but for the entire Caribbean region that, unfortunately, 
stands on the pathway of natural disasters, including hurricane season.
  As my colleagues have stated, the Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task 
Force resulted in a comprehensive plan

[[Page H7678]]

developed by Federal and local stakeholders, which then helped aid the 
recovery efforts in U.S. and elsewhere. A similar plan is needed for 
all of the areas affected during this hurricane season.
  We must also create a permanent waiver of the Jones Act for diesel 
and fuel. The latest 10-day waiver by the Trump administration is not 
nearly enough. The Jones Act needs to be waived for at least a year so 
that response and rebuilding efforts are not encumbered. I also call 
for a permanent waiver for diesel and fuel.
  I also call for immediate deployment of the USS Abraham Lincoln 
aircraft carrier.
  I joined 145 Members of Congress in urging the President to deploy 
the USS Abraham Lincoln.
  We need to repair telecommunications and authorize the Army and 
engineers to repair hospitals.
  Madam Speaker, I have four other points that I will later present to 
you.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from New York will provide a 
translation of his remarks to the Clerk.

                          ____________________



