

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8526-H8527]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                100 PERCENT OPPOSED TO THE GOP TAX PLAN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Illinois (Ms. Kelly) for 5 minutes,
  Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to say what many in 
this body have said: we should simplify our Tax Code. However, I am 100 
percent opposed to you and your caucus's efforts to write this bill in 
secret, hidden away from the public eye.
  I am 100 percent opposed to your plan to give massive tax breaks to a 
superrich few and leave middle class and working families to pay the 
bill. As written, the richest 1 percent of Americans will receive one-
third of the overall benefits from your so-called tax reform plan in 
2018, but by 2027, this lucky superrich handful of Americans will 
receive half of its benefits.
  Mr. Speaker, that is just wrong. Hardworking moms and dads deserve a 
tax break, not the wealthiest.
  So, yes, I am 100 percent opposed to limiting the State and local tax 
deduction, a provision in the Republican tax plan that would hike taxes 
on more than 40 percent of my constituents.
  I am 100 percent opposed to limiting the student loan deduction, 
especially

[[Page H8527]]

at a time when student debt totals more than a trillion dollars. Nearly 
two-thirds of Illinois college graduates have debt, and their average 
debt totals more than $28,000.
  Mr. Speaker, I am 100 percent opposed to repealing the elder tax 
credit, which helps families keep loved ones at home as they age.
  I am 100 percent opposed to denying teachers, hardworking men and 
women who have dedicated their lives to teaching the next generation, a 
deduction when they dip into their own pockets to purchase school 
supplies their students need.
  I am 100 percent opposed to repealing the work opportunity tax credit 
that helps businesses hire our brave veterans and young people starting 
their careers.
  I am 100 percent opposed to repealing the orphan drug expense credit 
that helps find cures for terrible diseases like sickle cell anemia, 
pancreatic cancer, and cerebral palsy.
  I am 100 percent opposed to saddling my children and grandchildren 
with an additional $1.5 trillion in national debt just so Republicans 
can give a tax break to their donor base.
  This is a scam. Mr. Speaker, I stand with the National Farmers Union, 
AARP, the National American Council on Adoptable Children, the National 
Federation of Independent Businesses, Fix the Debt, the American 
Society of Civil Engineers, the National Association of Realtors, the 
Mortgage Bankers Association, the Chicago Sun-Times, and the majority 
of Americans in opposing your so-called tax reform that is, frankly, 
nothing more than another attempt by the GOP to steal from the middle 
class and give to the rich.
  Instead of packaging tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, 
let's work together on a plan for all Americans.

                              {time}  1015

  Let's stop allowing one side of the aisle the ability to write 
legislation affecting more than 300 million people, in secret, behind 
closed doors, and away from the public eye. I am 100 percent in favor 
of bringing in some sunlight and letting the American people know 
exactly what we are doing.
  I am 100 percent in favor of doing what we were elected to do: fix 
problems by working together.
  I am 100 percent in favor of real tax reform.
  I am 100 percent in favor of giving hardworking moms and dads what 
they need and deserve: a tax break.
  I am 100 percent in favor of growing the earned income tax credit so 
families get bigger paychecks.
  I am 100 percent in favor of creating tax initiatives for businesses 
that hire and train at-risk young people and underemployed people.
  And I am 100 percent in favor of a child care tax credit that 
actually reflects the true cost of childcare in America.
  Let's put the politics aside and give the American people real tax 
reform that supports working families and our small businesses.
  On other note, one more thing I am 100 percent against is more 
thoughts, prayers, and moments of silence and no action toward gun 
violence prevention. Shame on us, Mr. Speaker.

                          ____________________



