

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6350-S6351]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-42, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Japan for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $113 million. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,

                                            Charles W. Hooper,

                                          Lieutenant General, USA,
                                                         Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-42

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Japan.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $108 million.
       Other $5 million.
       Total $113 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:

[[Page S6351]]

       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Fifty-six (56) AIM-120C-7 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air 
     Missiles (AMRAAMs).
       Non-MDE includes: Containers, weapon support and support 
     equipment, spare and repair parts, U.S. Government and 
     contractor engineering, technical and logistical support 
     services, and other related elements of logistical and 
     program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (X7-D-YAK).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: JA-D-YAI, JA-D-YAH.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: October 4, 2017.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          policy justification

 Japan--AIM-120C-7 Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAMs)

       The Government of Japan has requested a possible sale of 
     fifty-six (56) AIM 120C-7 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air 
     Missiles (AMRAAMs). Also included are containers, weapon 
     support and support equipment, spare and repair parts, U.S. 
     Government and contractor engineering, technical and 
     logistical support services, and other related elements of 
     logistical and program support. The total estimated program 
     cost is $113 million.
       This sale will support the foreign policy and national 
     security of the United States by meeting the security and 
     defense needs of a major ally and partner nation. Japan 
     continues to be an important force for peace, political 
     stability, and economic progress in the Asia-Pacific region.
       The proposed sale will provide Japan a critical air defense 
     capability to assist in defending the Japanese homeland and 
     U.S. personnel stationed there. Japan will have no difficulty 
     absorbing these additional munitions into the Japan Air Self-
     Defense Force.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The principal contractor will be Raytheon Missile Systems, 
     Tucson, Arizona. There are no offset arrangements proposed in 
     connection with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of U.S. Government or contractor representatives 
     to Japan.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-42

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The proposed sale will involve the release of sensitive 
     technology to the Government of Japan related to the AIM-120C 
     Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air (AMRAAM). The AIM-120C 
     AMRAAM is a radar guided missile featuring digital technology 
     and micro-miniature solid-state electronics. AMRAAM 
     capabilities include look-down/shoot-down, multiple launches 
     against multiple targets, resistance to electronic 
     countermeasures, and interception of high flying, low flying, 
     and maneuvering targets. The AMRAAM All Up Round is 
     classified CONFIDENTIAL, major components and subsystems 
     range from UNCLASSIFIED to CONFIDENTIAL, and technology data 
     and other documentation are classified up to SECRET.
       2. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures or an 
     equivalent system which might reduce system effectiveness or 
     be used in the development of a system with similar or 
     advanced capabilities.
       3. A determination has been made that Japan can provide 
     substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive 
     technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale 
     is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and 
     national security objectives outlined in the Policy 
     Justification.
       4. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal have been authorized for release and export to 
     Japan.

                          ____________________



