

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4892]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




FACILITATING CONSTRUCTION OF A BRIDGE ON CERTAIN PROPERTY IN CHRISTIAN 
                            COUNTY, MISSOURI

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 192, S. 810.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the bill by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 810) to facilitate construction of a bridge on 
     certain property in Christian County, Missouri, and for other 
     purposes.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill, 
which had been reported from the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works, with an amendment to strike all after the enacting clause and 
insert in lieu thereof the following:

     SECTION 1. RIVERSIDE BRIDGE PROJECT.

       (a) In General.--The Riverside Bridge Project is authorized 
     to be carried out notwithstanding--
       (1) any agreement entered unto under, or restriction 
     pursuant to, section 404(b)(2) of the Robert T. Stafford 
     Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
     5170c(b)(2)); or
       (2) any easement or other Federal restriction pursuant to 
     that Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) that requires the covered 
     property to be maintained for open space, recreation, or 
     wetland management.
       (b) Conditions.--As a condition of the authorization under 
     subsection (a)--
       (1) Christian County, Missouri, or an assignee shall--
       (A) carry out the Riverside Bridge Project in a manner that 
     ensures that no flood damage attributable to the Project 
     occurs; and
       (B) be liable for any such flood damage that does occur; 
     and
       (2) the Federal Government shall not be liable for future 
     flood damage that is caused by the Project.
       (c) Disaster Assistance Prohibited.--No future disaster 
     assistance from any Federal source may be provided with 
     respect to the covered property or any improvements thereon.
       (d) Definitions.--In this Act, the following definitions 
     apply:
       (1) Covered property.--The term ``covered property'' means 
     the property--
       (A) in Christian County, Missouri;
       (B) conveyed to such County by the Riverside Inn, Inc.; and
       (C) that is approximately 1.5 acres and 482 lineal feet 
     adjacent to the westerly line of Riverside Road to the center 
     of Finley Creek.
       (2) Riverside bridge project.--The term ``Riverside Bridge 
     Project'' means the project to construct, maintain, and 
     operate a bridge on and over the covered property.
  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
committee-reported substitute amendment be considered and agreed to, 
the bill, as amended, be considered read a third time and passed, and 
the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The committee-reported amendment in the nature of a substitute was 
agreed to.
  The bill (S. 810), as amended, was ordered to be engrossed for a 
third reading, was read the third time, and passed.

                          ____________________



