

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6321-S6322]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to 
repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that 
it cannot be used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for 
beneficiaries.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to require Senate 
candidates to file designations, statements, and reports in electronic 
form.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under 
Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 832

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 832, a bill to enhance the 
transparency and accelerate the impact of programs under the African 
Growth and Opportunity Act and the Millennium Challenge Corporation, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 946

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 946, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice 
Outreach Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
involved veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1015

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1015, a bill to require the 
Federal Communications Commission to study the feasibility of 
designating a simple, easy-to-remember dialing code to be used for a 
national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system.


                                S. 1498

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1498, a bill to establish in the Smithsonian 
Institution a comprehensive American women's history museum, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1632

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1632, a bill to establish an additional fund 
in the Treasury to meet existing statutory obligations to reimburse 
costs reasonably incurred as a result of the reorganization of 
broadcast television spectrum, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Booker, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1706, a bill to prevent human health threats posed by the consumption 
of equines raised in the United States.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill to authorize 
the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of the end of 
World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1724

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1724, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish a new tax credit and grant 
program to stimulate investment and healthy nutrition options in food 
deserts, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1757

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1757, a bill to 
strengthen border security, increase resources for enforcement of 
immigration laws, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Alabama

[[Page S6322]]

(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1774, a bill to provide 
protections for workers with respect to their right to select or 
refrain from selecting representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1823

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1823, a bill to amend the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to 
clarify that houses of worship are eligible for certain disaster relief 
and emergency assistance on terms equal to other eligible private 
nonprofit facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend funding 
for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1859

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1859, a bill to extend the 
moratorium on the annual fee on health insurance providers.


                                S. 1869

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1869, a bill to 
reauthorize and rename the position of Whistleblower Ombudsman to be 
the Whistleblower Protection Coordinator.


                                S. 1874

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1874, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Energy to establish certain demonstration grant programs 
relating to the demonstration of advanced distribution systems, smart 
water heaters, vehicle-to-grid integration, and granular retail 
electricity pricing, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1875

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1875, a bill to move the 
United States toward greater energy independence and security, to 
increase the flexibility, efficiency, and reliability of the electric 
grid, to increase the competitiveness of the United States economy, to 
protect consumers, and to improve the energy performance of the Federal 
Government, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1876

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1876, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Energy to establish a program to advance energy storage 
deployment by reducing the cost of energy storage through research, 
development, and demonstration, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 211

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 211, a resolution 
condemning the violence and persecution in Chechnya.


                              S. RES. 245

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 245, a resolution calling on the Government of 
Iran to release unjustly detained United States citizens and legal 
permanent resident aliens, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 280

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 280, a resolution designating the week of October 
2 through October 6, 2017, as ``National Health Information Technology 
Week'' to recognize the value of health information technology in 
transforming and improving the healthcare system for all people in the 
United States.

                          ____________________



