

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9296]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   SGT. DOUGLAS J. RINEY POST OFFICE

  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 2672) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 520 Carter Street in Fairview, Illinois, as the 
``Sgt. Douglas J. Riney Post Office''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2672

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SGT. DOUGLAS J. RINEY POST OFFICE.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 520 Carter Street in Fairview, Illinois, 
     shall be known and designated as the ``Sgt. Douglas J. Riney 
     Post Office''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Sgt. Douglas J. Riney Post Office''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Comer) and the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. Watson 
Coleman) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky.


                             General Leave

  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
to include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Kentucky?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2672, introduced by the 
gentlewoman from Illinois (Mrs. Bustos).
  The bill names the United States Post Office located at 520 Carter 
Street in Fairview, Illinois, after U.S. Army Sergeant Douglas J. 
Riney.
  Sergeant Riney was deployed in support of Operation Enduring Freedom 
from July 2014 to February 2015 and Operation Freedom's Sentinel 
beginning June 2016.
  In October 2016, Sergeant Riney died of wounds received after 
encountering hostile enemy forces in Kabul. We honor his service to our 
Nation.
  I thank the gentlewoman from Illinois for introducing this bill to 
pay tribute to the life and sacrifice of Sergeant Riney.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 2672, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Post 
Office located at 520 Carter Street in Fairview, Illinois, as the Sgt. 
Douglas J. Riney Post Office.
  Born in Georgia in 1990, Douglas Riney graduated from Spoon River 
Valley High School in Illinois, and married his wife, Kylie, in 2012. 
The two of them lived in Fairview with children Elea and James, where 
Douglas proudly volunteered as a firefighter, cheered for the Green Bay 
Packers, and loved spending time outdoors riding his motorcycle, 
hunting, and fishing.
  Douglas served on Active Duty in the U.S. Army, deploying in support 
of Operation Enduring Freedom from July 2014 to February 2015, and 
again as a part of Operation Freedom's Sentinel beginning in June 2016.
  He was assigned to the 3rd Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division.
  Tragically, on October 19, 2016, Sergeant Douglas Riney was killed in 
action at the hands of hostile enemy forces in Kabul, Afghanistan.
  Sergeant Douglas Riney was awarded the Purple Heart, Bronze Star, and 
Army Commendation Medal, among other honors, for his valiant service.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to remember the courage and the 
sacrifice of Sergeant Douglas Riney and honor his memory for years to 
come.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of H.R. 2672, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may 
consume to the gentlewoman from Illinois (Mrs. Bustos), my colleague.

                              {time}  1545

  Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, which 
would designate the post office in Fairview, Illinois, as the Sgt. 
Douglas J. Riney Post Office.
  Sergeant Riney, who died on October 19, 2016, of wounds received from 
hostile enemy forces in Kabul, Afghanistan, lived a life dedicated to 
service.
  After he graduated from Spoon River Valley High School, Sergeant 
Riney became a volunteer firefighter with the Fairview Fire Protection 
District. He was known as a man who could always be counted on by his 
community, a man who felt a calling to public service. He joined the 
Army, entering Active Duty in July of 2012.
  Sergeant Riney was deployed as part of Operation Enduring Freedom 
from July 2014 to February 2015. In June of 2016, he was again deployed 
to Operation Freedom's Sentinel.
  As part of the Support Squadron, 3rd Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry 
Division from Fort Hood, Texas, Sergeant Riney excelled at his work.
  Throughout his time in the Army, Sergeant Riney was repeatedly 
recognized with commendations, including the Purple Heart, the Bronze 
Star, and the Army Commendation Medal.
  At home, Sergeant Riney lived with his wife, Kylie, and their two 
children, Elea and James.
  He is survived by his loving family: his father and his stepmother, 
Dave and Kristie Riney; his mother and stepfather, Pam and Don Boland; 
his brother, Jeff Budd; his sister, Stacey Budd; two stepbrothers, 
Bryce and Kole Vaughn; and one stepsister, Ashlie Herrin.
  On the fateful day of October 19, 2016, our Nation lost one of its 
finest, and the community of Fairview lost one of its best.
  The naming of the Fairview Post Office is just a small token of our 
appreciation for Sergeant Riney, who made the ultimate sacrifice for 
our Nation.
  While we can never fill the hole left in the family, the Fairview 
community, or the Nation, I hope this post office will serve as a proud 
commemoration of a man who dedicated his life to serving others and as 
an inspiration for those who just hear his name.
  On behalf of the hardworking men and women of the Illinois 17th 
Congressional District, I will never forget the service of Sergeant 
Douglas Riney, and we will always honor his sacrifice.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for the consideration of this 
bill.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Comer) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2672.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



