

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6765]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   2017 IDAHO HOMETOWN HERO MEDALISTS

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the 2017 Idaho 
Hometown Hero Medalists.
  Members of Idaho communities nominate their fellow community members 
for the Idaho Hometown Hero Medal. The medal honors individuals who are 
extraordinarily dedicated to hard work, self-improvement, and community 
service. Drs. Fahim and Naeem Rahim established the Idaho Hometown Hero 
Medal in 2011 to recognize outstanding Idahoans working for the 
betterment of our communities.
  Ten Idahoans working in various fields are 2017 Hometown Hero Medal 
recipients, and I understand that this year special emphasis is being 
placed on those who ``Overcome Adversity'' as the 2017 theme of the 
awards. Century High School principal Sheryl Brockett, of Pocatello, is 
being honored for her two decades of dedicated service to educating 
youth in which she also led her school to excel in providing 
educational opportunities. Dr. Jacob DeLaRosa, a cardiothoracic surgeon 
from Pocatello, overcame significant injuries from a car accident to 
walk again, continue providing surgical care, and significantly 
contribute to the community by expanding area surgical operations. Lee 
Hammett, president of the board of directors for the Community Dinner 
Table, is being recognized for his extensive work to reduce hunger and 
loneliness and helping to bridge cultural and religious differences in 
Bingham County. Owner of Barrie's Ski and Sports Store Barrie Bennett 
Hunt, of Pocatello, received the medal for helping to provide others 
with quality access to the outdoors, inspiring active lifestyles, and 
giving considerably to his community, while also overcoming serious 
health challenges.
  Executive director of the Idaho Coalition Against Sexual and Domestic 
Violence Kelly Miller, of Boise, is a statewide leader in ending 
violence and has made a considerable difference in assisting Idaho 
families. Manager of Morgan Construction Matt Morgan, of Idaho Falls, 
is honored for his courageous voice in helping advance awareness of the 
sexual abuse of children and his support of others who have faced child 
abuse, such as he did. His efforts include founding ``Building Hope 
Today.'' World War II veteran Anton Newman served in the U.S. Army, 
assisting with recovery after the Hiroshima bombing, has farmed in 
Cambridge, and continues to be actively involved in the community 
encouraging and inspiring others while overcoming considerable health 
challenges. Retired U.S. Army COL Craig W. Nickisch, of Chubbuck, 
served our Nation with distinction in Central America, Europe, and 
Southeast Asia and continues to serve others in various roles locally 
and internationally. Shoshone-Bannock Tribe member and the Tribe's 
public affairs manager Randy'L Teton overcame adversity to reach 
educational goals and has encouraged Native American education, helping 
educate others about the Shoshone-Bannock Tribe's history, culture, 
government, and economic projects. Eric Thomas, of Fremont County, has 
not let his disability and multiple health concerns stand in the way of 
him assisting others as an active member of Fremont County Search and 
Rescue for the past nearly 30 years.
  These 10 remarkable Idahoans are now counted among the 66 Idahoans 
recognized through the Hometown Hero Award since its inception and the 
countless service-focused Idahoans who have not yet been honored but 
give immeasurably every day. I thank the Rahims, the award's committee 
members, the cosponsors, volunteers, and other organizations supporting 
this honor for their work to shine a spotlight on exceptionalism in our 
communities.
  Joining in recognizing the good works of Idaho's Hometown Heroes is 
an honor. I also thank the award recipients for leading by example in 
our communities. You may never know how many others you inspire to go 
above and beyond in assisting others and improving our communities, but 
there is no doubt you are leaving a lasting, positive mark in many 
lives. Congratulations to the 2017 Hometown Hero Award recipients on 
your achievements, and thank you for your efforts to better our 
communities.

                          ____________________



