

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7312-H7313]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 3737. A bill to provide for a study on the use of 
     social media in security clearance investigations; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. McGOVERN (for himself and Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois):
       H.R. 3738. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to remove certain limitations with respect 
     to commodity assistance for school breakfast programs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia:
       H.R. 3739. A bill to amend the Act of August 25, 1958, 
     commonly known as the ``Former Presidents Act of 1958'', with 
     respect to the monetary allowance payable to a former 
     President, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself, Mr. Young 
             of Alaska, Mr. Scott of Virginia, and Mrs. Davis of 
             California):
       H.R. 3740. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to improve the financial aid process for homeless children 
     and youths and foster care children and youth; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Mr. Evans, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. 
             Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Clay, Mr. Al Green 
             of Texas, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Lawson of Florida, and Mr. Payne):
       H.R. 3741. A bill to codify the Minority Bank Deposit 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Scott of Virginia, and Mrs. Davis 
             of California):
       H.R. 3742. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide formula grants to States to improve higher 
     education opportunities for foster youth and homeless youth, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 3743. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Transportation to issue regulations 
     to ensure airfare fairness in the wake of a disaster or 
     emergency, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
       H.R. 3744. A bill to provide that an Indian group may 
     receive Federal acknowledgment as an Indian tribe only by an 
     Act of Congress; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Evans, and Mr. DeSaulnier):
       H.R. 3745. A bill to amend the Fair Housing Act to 
     establish that certain conduct, in or around a dwelling, 
     shall be considered to be severe or pervasive for purposes of 
     determining whether a certain type of sexual harassment has 
     occurred under that Act, and for

[[Page H7313]]

     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 3746. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial 
     Protection Act of 2010 to clarify the authority of the Bureau 
     of Consumer Financial Protection with respect to persons 
     regulated by a State insurance regulator, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, and 
             Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 3747. A bill to require financial institutions to 
     freeze the assets of individuals arrested under suspicion of 
     participating in domestic terrorism or providing material 
     support to terrorists, to establish a national clearinghouse 
     for information on incidents of homegrown ``lone wolf'' 
     terrorism, domestic terrorism, and persons providing material 
     support to terrorists, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for himself, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Huffman, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Keating, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Titus, 
             Mr. Tonko, Mr. Welch, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Pingree, Ms. 
             Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Kihuen, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Polis, 
             and Mr. Heck):
       H.R. 3748. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for an option for individuals who are 
     ages 50 to 64 to buy into Medicare, to provide for health 
     insurance market stabilization, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Meeks, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Lee, Ms. Moore, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Ms. Adams, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Soto, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Ms. Norton, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Fudge, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Vela, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Rush, and Mr. Payne):
       H.R. 3749. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to provide for a standard medical expense deduction 
     under the supplemental nutrition assistance program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Ways and 
     Means, and Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico):
       H.R. 3750. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     facilitate the commercialization of energy and related 
     technologies developed at Department of Energy facilities 
     with promising commercial potential; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 3751. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to direct the Election Assistance Commission to develop 
     best practices for States to use to protect the integrity of 
     elections for Federal office, to make election technology 
     improvement grants to States for adopting and applying such 
     best practices in the administration of elections for Federal 
     office, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself and Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3752. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to develop and implement plans to improve the safety 
     of medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 3753. A bill to establish the United States Commission 
     on an Open Society with Security; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Rosen, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Evans, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Norton, Mr. Vela, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Sires, Mr. Courtney, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Quigley, and Mr. Moulton):
       H. Con. Res. 78. Concurrent resolution denouncing and 
     opposing the violence, xenophobia, and bigotry that are 
     promoted by White nationalists and neo-Nazis; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



