

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6868-S6869]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         REMEMBERING SUE MINTON

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the life of Sue 
Minton, of London, KY, who passed away on September 27, 2017, at the 
age of 67. Her passing is a deep loss to the community and to the local 
newspaper, The Sentinel-Echo, where she worked for 41 years.
  For those who knew her as a colleague and a friend, Sue will be 
remembered for her dedication and her friendship. She was also a 
beloved member of the Laurel County community, where she lived with her 
husband, Dennis, and their daughter Denise.
  Sue was always willing to help others, and she especially enjoyed 
spending time with her grandchildren. Sue will be deeply missed by 
friends, family, and the community. Elaine and I send our condolences 
to them in their time of grief
  The Sentinel-Echo recently published an article on Sue's life and 
career. I ask unanimous consent that a copy of the article be printed 
in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                [From the Sentinel-Echo, Sept. 29, 2017]

    Longtime Sentinel-Echo Lifestyles Editor Sue Minton Passes Away

                           (By Nita Johnson)

       As the news of long-time Sentinel Echo employee Sue 
     Minton's passing on Wednesday night spread throughout the 
     community, many people who knew and had worked with her were 
     shocked and saddened.
       Minton began working at The Sentinel Echo in 1976 when the 
     newspapers were printed in the basement area of the current 
     building. She had many stories about the days when the 
     operation was run by Luke Keith, and then by Al Smith, who 
     sold the company to corporate ownership. She said she had 
     withstood the many sales of the company since that time, but 
     remained loyal to her job and co-workers throughout the 41 
     years of her employment.
       Minton was the longest employee in the history of the 
     Sentinel Echo, coming in next to former business manager Judy 
     McCowan who retired after 39 years of employment. Minton and 
     McCowan became acquainted during their early years at the 
     newspaper and remained friends over the years, even after 
     McCowan retired.
       McGowan said hearing of her long-time friend's death was 
     devastating.
       ``I'm so heartbroken,'' McGowan said. ``We've been friends 
     for over 40 years. She seemed more like a sister.''
       Minton and McCowan had a bowl of Cheerios every morning 
     around 9 a.m. in the employee breakroom while McCowan worked 
     for the newspaper. But McCowan's retirement ended that 
     morning routine.

[[Page S6869]]

       ``She told me she hadn't eaten Cheerios since I left,'' 
     McCowan said. ``But we still had lunch sometimes and I always 
     looked forward to seeing her. She was a true friend to me. 
     She was a good person and she was always there when you 
     needed her.''
       ``Sue was not only a dedicated employee, she was also a 
     trusted friend,'' Managing Editor Denis House said. ``I've 
     known Sue since I first started working at The Sentinel in 
     1983. She used to call me her ``work Denis'' since her 
     husband was also named Dennis, although we spelled our names 
     differently. She knew this community and was a wealth of 
     information and knowledge. She loved watching her 
     grandchildren play sports. I will miss her.''
       ``I was very blessed to have worked with Sue for a little 
     over a year,'' Regional Publisher Dave Eldridge said. ``She 
     was one of the classiest ladies I believe I have ever met, a 
     conscientious worker that strived to make The Sentinel the 
     very best it could be with every edition. Sue had a quick wit 
     and smile and I really think she knew everyone in Laurel 
     County, or so it seemed. Her years here made Sue a treasure 
     that we will never be able to replace, nor would we expect 
     to. MasterCard would refer to her as `priceless,' and she was 
     to us. She will be sorely missed and we pray for her family's 
     peace and comfort.''
       Minton was known for her willingness to help others and her 
     dedication to her job. She was responsible for publishing the 
     obituaries, school news, business and church pages as well as 
     several monthly and special publications such as the Chamber 
     of Commerce newsletter and special sections for the World 
     Chicken Festival, Laurel County Fair, and Laurel County 
     Homecoming. She also participated in writing special stories 
     for the Silver magazine (now Southeast Kentucky NOW magazine) 
     and the annual veterans' tribute magazine. She won a first 
     place award in the only Kentucky Press Association contest 
     she ever entered for her in-depth story on the Bush fire 
     department.
       Minton was well known in the community as well as with her 
     newspaper job. Raised in Breathitt County, she met her 
     husband, Dennis Minton, while attending Cumberland College in 
     Williamsburg. The two married and settled on the Minton farm 
     in eastern Laurel County in the Bush community, where they 
     raised their daughter, Denise Griebel.
       A devoted mother, she was just as devoted to her two 
     grandchildren, Weston and Hailey. After working hours, she 
     was on the sidelines of ball games, cheering them on and 
     always providing that special love set aside between 
     grandmothers and grandchildren.
       Tammy Mays worked at The Sentinel Echo for five years with 
     Minton, although she said she was also related to Minton's 
     husband.
       ``Sue was just a good soul,'' Mays said. ``She wasn't just 
     a co-worker, she was family.''
       That close tie continued between the two even after Mays 
     secured another job. But the two still communicated 
     frequently.
       Minton was known among her coworkers for her smile and 
     dedication to producing the newspaper with timely and 
     community related news. She had called Laurel County home 
     since settling here and ensured that local news and people 
     were highlighted.

  (At the request of Mr. Schumer, the following statement was ordered 
to be printed in the Record.)

                          ____________________



