

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 168 (Wednesday, October 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6533]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BICENTENNIAL

 Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
University of Michigan, one of the world's premier universities, which 
is celebrating its bicentennial this year.
  Whether it is leading-edge manufacturing, lifesaving advances in 
medical science, or groundbreaking leaps in technology, the University 
of Michigan is a world leader in innovation and creativity. I can tell 
you that there is no group of students or alumni in America that is 
more passionate and committed than our Michigan fans.
  Founded on August 26, 1817, in Detroit, the University of Michigan 
was the first public university in the Northwest Territory, moving to 
Ann Arbor in 1837. With 63,000 students on three campuses and more than 
572,000 living graduates, including my son, the university has one of 
the largest alumni bodies in the world. They include artists, 
astronauts, athletes, entrepreneurs, humanitarians, business and 
government leaders, and Nobel Laureates in economics, medicine, and 
science.
  The university is known for many firsts that make it among, as its 
fight song states, the ``leaders and best.'' Michigan was the Nation's 
first university to build a chemical laboratory, open and operate its 
own hospital, and teach science-based medicine. In 1879, the university 
created the chair of the science and the art of teaching, the first 
permanent professorial chair at an American college or university 
devoted to teacher preparation. Michigan offered the Nation's first 
collegiate aeronautics classes in 1914. In 1949, it established the 
Institute of Social Research, now one of the oldest and largest 
academic survey organizations.
  Michigan is one of the world's leading research universities, 
spending $1.39 billion on research in 2016. It produces, on average, 
400 new inventions each year and launches a new startup every 4 weeks. 
Faculty and graduates have played a leadership role in developing the 
polio vaccine, identifying the gene for cystic fibrosis, creating the 
worldwide computing backbone that led to the internet, protecting the 
Great Lakes, and exploring space. The groundbreaking research continues 
today as the university works on autonomous vehicles and is home to M-
City, a one-of-a-kind urban test facility for vehicle deployment.
  The university is known for the beauty of its natural surroundings 
and architecture, including some 16,000 trees and such landmarks as 
Angell Hall, Burton Memorial Tower, and Hill Auditorium, all designed 
by Albert Kahn. It is home to more than 20 libraries, several museums, 
art galleries and collections, and performing arts venues, including 
the Arthur Miller Theatre, named in honor of the playwright and U-M 
alumnus.
  Michigan also is renowned for its athletic tradition, dating back to 
1865. It boasts 56 national championships in 12 sports and two Heisman 
Trophy winners.
  I am extremely proud to congratulate the University of Michigan for 
its 200 years of leadership in higher education and outstanding 
contributions to the State of Michigan, the Nation, and the world. ``Go 
Blue!''

                          ____________________



