

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6871]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
  Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements of Section 
36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended, we are forwarding 
herewith Transmittal No. 17-57, concerning the Air Force's proposed 
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Government of Canada for 
defense articles and services estimated to cost $140 million. After 
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,

                                            Charles W. Hooper,

                                          Lieutenant General, USA,
                                                         Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-57

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Canada.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $130 million.
       Other $ 10 million.
       Total $140 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Up to thirty-two (32) AIM-120D Advanced Medium-Range Air-
     to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM).
       Up to eighteen (18) AMRAAM Captive Air Training Missiles 
     (CATMs).
       Up to four (4) AMRAAM Non-Development Item Airborne 
     Instrumentation Unit (NDI-AIU).
       Up to two (2) AMRAAM Instrumented Test Vehicles (ITV).
       Up to seven (7) spare AMRAAM guidance units.
       Up to four (4) spare AMRAAM control sections.
       Non-MDE: Included in the sale are containers; storage and 
     preservation; transportation; aircrew and maintenance 
     training; training aids and equipment, spares and repair 
     parts; warranties; weapon system support and test equipment; 
     publications and technical documentation; software 
     development integration, and support; system integration and 
     testing; U.S. Government and contractor engineering technical 
     and logistics support; and other related elements of 
     logistics and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (XX-D-YDG).
       (v) Prior Related Cases. if any: CN-D-YAE for AIM-120 
     AMRAAMs; CN-D-QBU for in-service support for those AMRAAMs.
       (vi) Sales Commission. Fee, etc., Paid. Offered. or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: Oct 30, 2017.
       * As defined in Section 47 (6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

  Canada--AIM-120D Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM)

       The Government of Canada has requested a Letter of Offer 
     and Acceptance for the procurement of up to thirty-two (32) 
     AIM-120D Advanced Medium-Range Air-to Air Missiles (AMRAAMs), 
     up to eighteen (18) AMRAAM Captive Air Training Missiles 
     (CATMs); up to four (4) AMRAAM Non-Development Item Airborne 
     Instrumentation Unit (NDI-AIU); up to two (2) AMRAAM 
     Instrumented Test Vehicles (ITV); up to seven (7) spare 
     AMRAAM guidance units; up to four (4) spare AMRAAM control 
     sections for use on their F/A-18 aircraft. Included in the 
     sale are containers; storage and preservation; 
     transportation; aircrew and maintenance training; training 
     aids and equipment, spares and repair parts; warranties; 
     weapon system support and test equipment; publications and 
     technical documentation; software development, integration, 
     and support; system integration and testing; U.S. Government 
     and contractor engineering, technical, and logistics support; 
     and other related elements of logistics and program support. 
     The estimated total cost is $140 million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security objectives of the United States by 
     helping to improve the security of a NATO ally which has 
     been, and continues to be, a key democratic partner of the 
     United States in ensuring peace and stability. The missiles 
     will be used on Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) fighter 
     aircraft.
       This proposed sale of defense articles and services is 
     required to enable RCAF fighters to optimally fulfill both 
     North American Aerospace Defense (NORAD) and NATO missions 
     and also meets the U.S. Northern Command's goals of combined 
     air operations interoperability and standardization between 
     Canadian and U.S. forces. The RCAF will have no difficulty 
     absorbing these missiles into its inventory.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor will be Raytheon Missile Systems, 
     Tucson, AZ. The Government of Canada has advised that it will 
     negotiate offset agreements in conjunction with this sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     representatives to Canada.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-57

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The AIM-120D Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile 
     (AMRAAM) hardware, including the missile guidance section, is 
     classified CONFIDENTIAL. State-of-the-art technology is used 
     in the missile to provide it with unique beyond-visual-range 
     capability. The increase in capability from the AIM-120C-7 to 
     AIM-120D consists of a two-way data link, a more accurate 
     navigation unit, improved High-Angle Off-Boresight (HOBS) 
     capability, and enhanced aircraft-to-missile position 
     handoff.
       2. AIM-120D features a target detection device with 
     embedded electronic countermeasures, and electronics unit 
     within the guidance section that performs all radar signal 
     processing, midcourse and terminal guidance, flight control, 
     target detection, and warhead burst point determination.
       3. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures that 
     might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the 
     development of a system with similar or advanced 
     capabilities.
       4. A determination has been made that Canada can provide 
     substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive 
     technology being released as the U.S. Government. This 
     proposed sale is necessary to further the U.S. foreign policy 
     and national security objectives outlined in the Policy 
     Justification.
       5. All defense articles and services listed on this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to Canada.

                          ____________________



