

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7062]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 2083. A bill to enhance cybersecurity information 
     sharing and coordination at ports in the United States, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE:
       S. 2084. A bill to include community partners and 
     intermediaries in the planning and delivery of education and 
     related programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 2085. A bill to amend the Agriculture and Consumer 
     Protection Act of 1973 to streamline application processes 
     and reduce the administrative burden for the commodity 
     supplemental food program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Toomey, Mr. 
             Alexander, Mr. Casey, Ms. Collins, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
             Corker, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Heller, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Markey, Mr. McCain, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, Mr. Portman, Mr. Warner, Ms. Warren, and 
             Mr. Johnson):
       S. 2086. A bill to amend the Federal Agriculture 
     Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 to extend and modernize 
     the sugar program, to extend and subsequently repeal the 
     feedstock flexibility program for bioenergy producers, to 
     extend and subsequently replace flexible marketing allotments 
     for sugar, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2087. A bill to promote and ensure delivery of high-
     quality special education and related services to students 
     with visual disabilities or who are deaf or hard of hearing 
     or deaf-blind through instructional methodologies meeting 
     their unique learning needs, to enhance accountability for 
     the provision of such services, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. FISCHER:
       S. 2088. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for the issuance of the Gold Star Installation Access 
     Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, and other 
     next of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while 
     serving on certain active or reserve duty, to ensure that a 
     remarried surviving spouse with dependent children of the 
     deceased member remains eligible for installation benefits to 
     which the surviving spouse was previously eligible, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Markey, and Mr. Franken):
       S. 2089. A bill to amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 to 
     provide equal treatment of LGBT older individuals, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. WICKER:
       S. 2090. A bill to amend the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance 
     Reform Act of 2012 to make reforms to flood mapping programs, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. WICKER:
       S. 2091. A bill to amend the National Flood Insurance Act 
     of 1968 to provide relief from surcharges to small businesses 
     and nonprofit organizations; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. WICKER:
       S. 2092. A bill to amend the Bunning-Bereuter-Blumenauer 
     Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2004 to require insurance 
     agents who sell flood insurance policies under the National 
     Flood Insurance Program to take certain continuing 
     educational courses, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. WICKER:
       S. 2093. A bill to amend the Omnibus Public Land Management 
     Act of 2009 to clarify the authority of the Administrator of 
     the Federal Emergency Management Agency with respect to post-
     storm assessments, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



