

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7156-S7157]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 2107. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Under Secretary of Health to report major adverse 
     personnel actions involving certain health care employees to 
     the National Practitioner Data Bank and to applicable State 
     licensing boards, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 2108. A bill to amend the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of 
     the United States to modify temporarily certain rates of 
     duty; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Mr. Tester, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Warren, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Reed, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. 
             Hirono, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Stabenow, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Van Hollen, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Markey, Ms. Harris, Mr. 
             Coons, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             King, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2109. A bill to count revenues from military and veteran 
     education programs toward the limit on Federal revenues that 
     certain proprietary institutions of higher education are 
     allowed to receive for purposes of section 487 of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL:
       S. 2110. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the non-applicability of non-Department of 
     Veterans Affairs covenants not to compete to the appointment 
     of certain Veterans Health Administration personnel, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES:
       S. 2111. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     modify the treatment of applications for projects to 
     construct new State homes, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 2112. A bill to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to improve the treatment at non-
     Department of Veterans Affairs facilities of veterans who are 
     victims of military sexual assault, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 2113. A bill to amend title 41, United States Code, to 
     improve the manner in which Federal contracts for design and 
     construction services are awarded, to prohibit the use of 
     reverse auctions for design and construction services 
     procurements, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Markey, Mr. Daines, 
             Mr. Franken, Mr. Inhofe, Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. Ernst, 
             Mr. Kennedy, and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 2114. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to the 
     5307th Composite Unit (Provisional), commonly known as 
     ``Merrill's Marauders'', in recognition of their bravery and 
     outstanding service in the jungles of Burma during World War 
     II; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Reed, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 2115. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to disallow any deduction for punitive damages, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 2116. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
     to increase the asset threshold with respect to the on-site 
     examination of certain insured depository institutions; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

[[Page S7157]]

  

           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 2117. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     expand eligibility for the TRICARE program to include certain 
     veterans entitled to benefits under the Medicare program due 
     to conditions or injuries incurred during service in the 
     Armed Forces and to waive the Medicare part B late enrollment 
     penalty for such veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



