

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7563]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 2174. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to conduct a study on the Veterans Crisis Line; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. 
             Grassley):
       S. 2175. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to preserve Medicare beneficiary access to ventilators, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Wyden, and Mr. 
             Booker):
       S. 2176. A bill to establish an integrated national 
     approach to respond to ongoing and expected efforts of 
     extreme weather and climate change by protecting, managing, 
     and conserving the fish, wildlife, and plants of the United 
     States, and to maximize Government efficiency and reduce 
     costs, in cooperation with State, local, and tribal 
     governments and other entities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Ms. Warren, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Booker, Mr. Markey, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Franken, 
             and Ms. Harris):
       S. 2177. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to establish a minimum salary threshold for bona fide 
     executive, administrative, and professional employees exempt 
     from Federal overtime compensation requirements, and 
     automatically update such threshold every 3 years; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself and Mrs. Ernst):
       S. 2178. A bill to require the Council of Inspectors 
     General on Integrity and Efficiency to make open 
     recommendations of Inspectors General publicly available, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, and Ms. 
             Baldwin):
       S. 2179. A bill to protect consumers by requiring 
     reasonable security policies and procedures to protect data 
     containing personal information, and to provide for 
     nationwide notice in the event of a breach of security; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Booker, 
             and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 2180. A bill to establish additional protections and 
     disclosures for students and co-signers with respect to 
     student loans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Booker, and Mr. 
             Brown):
       S. 2181. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     provide protections for active duty military consumers; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

                          ____________________



