

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8305]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          HIGHLIGHTING THE STEP FORWARD TO CURE TSC MIAMI WALK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I wish to highlight the Step Forward 
to Cure TSC Miami Walk, which took place last weekend at my alma mater, 
Florida International University. Tuberous sclerosis complex, or TSC, 
is a rare genetic disease that causes uncontrollable tumor growth 
across the face, body, and organs of impacted individuals.
  Unfortunately, there is no cure for TSC. South Florida's own hero, 
Max Lucca, pictured here, was diagnosed with TSC when he was only 2 
weeks old. Now, he is 9 years old, and he has thrived because of the 
constant love and care provided by his parents, Vanessa and Max. The 
TSC Miami Walk brings together patients like Max Lucca and their 
families with supporters who are committed to improving their lives.
  Every year, the walk plays an essential role in advancing lifesaving 
research and programs to increase awareness of TSC, and expanding the 
network of resources that improve the lives of patients and their 
families.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize the work of Vanessa Vazquez; 
her husband, Max; and all of the other activists who are so needed from 
the Tuberous Sclerosis Alliance who work so hard to make this walk a 
reality.
  I want to thank everyone who came out to FIU last Saturday and made 
this event a resounding success. Due to your efforts, due to your 
commitment, I am confident that we will be able to increase the 
research and education needed to find a cure for this tragic disease.
  Meanwhile, go Max Lucca.


             Commit to Ending Pediatric HIV/AIDS Worldwide

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to encourage my 
colleagues to support H. Res. 593, a bipartisan resolution reaffirming 
our national commitment to ending pediatric HIV/AIDS worldwide.
  It is a resolution that I introduced with my friend, Congresswoman 
Barbara Lee. The fight against pediatric AIDS is a great example of how 
our country is a positive and transformative force in the lives of many 
across the world. Because of our leadership here in the United States 
over the past 12 years, there has been a 62 percent increase in the 
number of women receiving mother-to-child transmissions prevention 
services. Wow.
  Thanks to positive American involvement through programs like PEPFAR, 
more than 11.5 million expectant mothers around the world have received 
HIV testing and counseling, and nearly 2 million babies have been born 
HIV-free.
  However, even though we have made great strides in a fight against 
pediatric AIDS over the last few years, we cannot rest, Mr. Speaker. We 
cannot rest while more than 400 children around the world are born with 
HIV every day; 400. We cannot rest when less than half of the children 
suffering from HIV have access to the lifesaving treatments they so 
desperately need; less than half. Indeed, we must redouble our efforts 
to reach every single mother and child impacted by this terrible 
disease.
  For this reason, my friend, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, and I just 
reintroduced H. Res. 593, a bipartisan resolution recommitting our 
country, the United States, to eradicating pediatric AIDS worldwide and 
supporting those who have been impacted by this epidemic. Our 
resolution also supports our national efforts to provide women and 
children with HIV counseling, with HIV testing services, as well as 
expanding their access to lifesaving treatments.
  America's ongoing commitment has helped save the lives of many, but 
so much more remains to be done. We are one of the greatest hopes for a 
better future for countless others. Now, more than ever, it is 
essential to ensure that we remain committed as a nation to creating a 
future where no child suffers from HIV/AIDS.
  I urge my colleagues to support this worthwhile cause and cosponsor 
our resolution, H. Res. 593.

                          ____________________



