

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9637-H9639]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            STOPPING ABUSIVE FEMALE EXPLOITATION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 3317) to amend title 18, United States Code, to increase the 
penalty for female genital mutilation, and for other purposes, as 
amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3317

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Stopping Abusive Female 
     Exploitation Act of 2017'' or the ``SAFE Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. INCREASED PENALTY FOR FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION.

       Section 116 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking ``5 years'' each place it appears and inserting ``15 
     years''.

     SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       It is the sense of Congress that States should have in 
     place laws that require health care professionals, teachers, 
     and other school employees to report to local law enforcement 
     agencies any instance of suspected female genital mutilation.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Rutherford) and the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson 
Lee) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida.


                             General Leave

  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material on H.R. 3317, currently under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Florida?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong support of H.R. 3317, the 
Stopping Abusive Female Exploitation Act, or the SAFE Act.
  This legislation increases the criminal penalty for female genitalia 
mutilation of a minor from a maximum of 5 years to a maximum of 15 
years. It also encourages States to adopt laws to require certain 
professionals who work with children to report suspected mutilation 
cases.
  Female genitalia mutilation, or FGM, is internationally recognized as 
a human rights violation for girls and women. It is an extreme form of 
abuse against women and girls, often causing serious and permanent 
health complications, including shock and death.
  Across at least 30 countries, more than 200 million girls and women 
alive today have been subjected to FGM and more than 3 million girls 
are estimated to be at risk every year of being subjected to this 
procedure even though it is outlawed in 42 countries.
  Congress first passed legislation making this horrific practice 
illegal in 1996. The Federal Prohibition of Female Genitalia Mutilation 
Act made it illegal to perform FGM on girls younger than 18 years of 
age in the United States.
  In 2013, Congress passed another law, the Transport for Female 
Genital Mutilation Act, which amended the 1996 legislation and made it 
a crime to knowingly transport a girl out of the United States for the 
purpose of FGM, yet the practice still continues. According to some 
estimates, the number of girls who have undergone FGM has tripled over 
the past 2 decades.
  In 2017, after 20 years on the books, the first charges were filed 
under the FGM statute against a doctor in Michigan who performed this 
disfiguring assault on two 7-year-olds.
  By increasing the criminal exposure for this crime, we send a message 
that our country will not tolerate the mutilation of our young girls 
and women and we will do what we can to prevent that.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Mr. Trott from the great State of 
Michigan for introducing this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to 
support it.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, let me thank the gentleman from Florida for managing 
this bill along with the previous initiative, and let me thank Mrs. 
Maloney and Mr. Trott for their leadership on this very important 
legislation.
  Protecting girls and young women from abuse and exploitation is vital 
to the health of our communities. The Stopping Abusive Female 
Exploitation Act is intended to amend 18 U.S.C. Section 116 by raising 
the penalty such that the maximum penalty for the crime of genital 
mutilation is 15 years.

                              {time}  1300

  Given the abhorrent nature of this practice, States should have in 
place laws that require healthcare professionals, school employees, and 
other professionals who work with children to report any suspected 
practice of female genital mutilation to the appropriate law 
enforcement entity.
  This legislation is important as a means for Congress to 
appropriately punish those who commit this crime. Female genital 
manipulation, cutting, is internationally recognized as a violation of 
human rights of girls and women. It is currently a crime in 26 States, 
including Michigan and Texas. It is also a Federal crime.
  Around the world, at least five girls are mutilated, cut, every hour. 
An estimated 100 million girls and 140 million women worldwide are 
living with the consequences of FGM. Despite the fact that FGM has been 
banned in the United States since 1996, people continue to engage in 
this abusive practice.
  Recently, Michigan was faced with the first Federal prosecution under 
this statute, whereby a Michigan doctor was charged with performing 
female genital mutilation on two girls that crossed State lines. 
Because this intolerable practice has no medical benefits, it has no 
place in our society, and those who commit these horrendous crimes 
should be held accountable for their actions. I, therefore, ask support 
for this bill and urge my colleagues to do the same.

[[Page H9638]]

  Protecting girls and young women from abuse and exploitation is vital 
to the health of our communities.
  ``The Stopping Abusive Female Exploitation Act of 2017'' is intended 
to amend 18 U.S.C. Sec.  116 by increasing the maximum penalty for the 
crime of female genital mutilation (FGM) from five years to fifteen.
  Given the abhorrent nature of this practice, States should have in 
place laws that require health care professionals, school employees and 
other professionals that work with children, to report any suspected 
practice of female genital mutilation, to the appropriate law 
enforcement entity.
  I support this legislation as a means for Congress to appropriately 
punish those that commit this crime.
  Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting (FGM/C) is internationally 
recognized as a violation of the human rights of girls and women. It is 
currently a crime in 26 states, including Michigan and Texas. It is 
also a federal crime.
  Around the world, at least five girls are mutilated/cut every hour. 
An estimated 100 million girls and 140 million women worldwide are 
living with the consequences of FGM.
  Despite the fact that FGM has been banned in the United States since 
1996, people continue to engage in this abusive practice.
  Recently, Michigan was faced with the first federal prosecution under 
this statute, whereby, a Michigan doctor was charged with performing 
female genital mutilation on two girls that crossed state-lines.
  Because this intolerable practice has no medical benefits, it has no 
place in our society and those who commit these horrendous crimes 
should be held accountable for their actions.
  I therefore, support this bill and urge my colleagues to do the same.
  Mr. Speaker, we must do everything we can to protect victims, 
particularly, the most vulnerable people in our society, our children.
  This bill will certainly do that. Beyond serving as a deterrence for 
many in our society that continue to engage in the practice of female 
genital mutilation, this legislation will also provide a more 
appropriate punishment for violation of the FGM statute, under 18 
U.S.C. Sec.  116.
  For all these reasons, I therefore, support this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Trott), my good friend.
  Mr. TROTT. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend from Florida for 
managing this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3317, the SAFE Act, 
legislation that will increase the Federal penalty for female genital 
mutilation from 5 years to 15 years.
  This past April, just north of Detroit, reports of this appalling and 
brutal practice surfaced in my district. As a lifelong resident of 
southeast Michigan, I was horrified to learn that three local 
residents, including two physicians, professionals we trust with our 
children, were charged for allegedly performing and participating in 
this barbaric practice.
  The subsequent Federal prosecution has shed light on an evil practice 
that has no place in southeast Michigan or the United States. This 
person who claims to be a physician is a monster and has reportedly 
committed this heinous act hundreds of times.
  This despicable practice has no place in our society, and we must 
ensure our Federal laws reflect this principle. We must make it clear 
to Americans and the rest of the world that this practice will not be 
tolerated.
  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimate that over 
500,000 girls in the United States have undergone or are at risk of 
FGM. That is 500,000 girls too many. We must set a zero tolerance 
against this practice. This is gender violence and oppression, and it 
is time for the government to punish such egregious behavior 
accordingly.
  My bipartisan SAFE Act will increase the Federal penalty from 5 to 15 
years, putting it more in line with other developed countries. We need 
to protect our girls right here at home, and increasing the penalty 
will go a long way toward accomplishing this goal.
  I want to thank the coauthor of this bill, the gentlewoman from New 
York (Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney), my friend and colleague, for her work. 
I also want to thank Chairman Goodlatte for his effort and leadership 
in moving this bill through the committee process.
  Mr. Speaker, today we can step toward eradicating this barbaric 
practice, and I urge my colleagues to support passage of H.R. 3317.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, it is certainly a pleasure to yield 2 
minutes to the distinguished gentlewoman from New York (Mrs. Carolyn B. 
Maloney), a good friend and a champion of these issues dealing with 
vulnerable women, the original sponsor of this legislation along with 
Mr. Trott.
  Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good 
friend, Sheila Jackson Lee, for her extraordinary leadership on this 
issue and so many others, and I thank her for yielding to me.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3317, the Stopping 
Abusive Female Exploitation, or SAFE, Act. It is a bipartisan, 
noncontroversial issue; and I hope this body unanimously supports it, 
as it will save the health and protection and stop the abuse of girls 
in our country.
  I am the Democratic lead on this bill and, first, want to thank my 
friend and colleague from Michigan (Mr. Trott) for his devotion, 
extraordinary leadership, and commitment to bringing this bill to the 
floor.
  Female genital mutilation is an issue that affects women and girls in 
the United States and around the world.
  I want to express my regret that he has decided to retire from this 
body. We will miss his leadership in Congress. His district, I am sure, 
and State will miss it, and, I must say, I believe our country will 
miss it. It is one thing when a woman champions a woman's issue, but to 
have a like-minded man join you and lead you is a very, very special 
expression of leadership, and I am deeply grateful for the gentleman's 
leadership on behalf of the girls and women that this bill will help.
  Female genital mutilation is a terrible, abusive practice that causes 
immense physical and emotional pain and damage to young girls that can 
last a lifetime. It is a Federal crime. Twenty-two States have laws 
against it, yet it is still being practiced in our great country.
  It is illegal in the United States, and while we condemn this 
practice around the world, we really need to do more to stop it right 
here at home.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. I yield the gentlewoman an additional 1 minute.
  Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York. The CDC estimates that in 2012, 
500,000 females in the United States have been subjected to or are at 
risk of female genital mutilation, and that number is rising. It is up 
to us to bring that number to zero.
  This bill creates a harsher and more appropriate penalty, increasing 
the current sentence of 5 years to 15 years imprisonment. Stricter 
penalties for performing the procedure are critical to eradicating this 
horrific abuse.
  I not only thank my colleague, but also Chairman Goodlatte and 
Ranking Member Nadler and our sponsors in the Senate, Senators 
Feinstein and Grassley.
  This is an important bill. I hope this entire body supports it. It 
will literally save the lives of many young girls in our country.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I have no more speakers on this bill.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to yield 3 minutes to 
the gentleman from New York (Mr. Nadler), the ranking member of the 
House Judiciary Committee.
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3317.
  Unfortunately, this bill is needed to help protect young women and 
girls from the horrible practice of female genital mutilation. H.R. 
3317 would increase the maximum penalty from 5 years to 15 years for 
female genital mutilation to appropriately punish those who commit this 
horrible crime.

  FGM, female genital mutilation, is internationally recognized as a 
violation of the human rights of girls and young women. It is currently 
a crime in 26 States, including New York, in addition to the 
prohibition in the Federal criminal code.
  Around the world, at least five girls are mutilated in this way every 
single hour. An estimated 100 million girls and 140 million women 
worldwide are living with the consequences of genital mutilation.
  Despite the fact that female genital mutilation has been banned in 
the United States since 1996, people continue to engage in this abusive 
practice. Recently, the first prosecution

[[Page H9639]]

was initiated under the Federal statute. A doctor in Michigan was 
charged with performing female genital mutilation on two girls who had 
been brought across State lines for this purpose.
  Those who commit these horrendous crimes should be held accountable 
for their actions. I support increasing the maximum penalty under 
Federal law from 5 to 15 years in order to reflect the severity of 
these injuries and their long-lasting consequences and, perhaps, to 
better deter these crimes. Therefore, I support this bill, and I urge 
my colleagues to do the same.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Again, let me thank the gentleman from Florida for managing and 
joining me in the managing of this legislation, and, again, I thank the 
cosponsors.
  Let me also express my appreciation to the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. Trott) for his service to this Congress and, as well, for his 
excellent bill that is on the floor.
  I thank the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney), as 
well, for her leadership on this legislation.
  I think it is important to note that these are dastardly acts against 
women and girls; and as I indicated, across the world, we are talking 
about 140 million women and 100 million girls who have been subjected 
to living with the consequences of the FGM. It was banned in the United 
States since 1996, but we know this act still goes on. So we must do 
everything we can to protect victims, particularly the most vulnerable 
people in our society: our children.
  This is not a mandatory minimum. This is upwards of 15 years. This is 
a deserving penalty for a horrific crime. This bill will certainly do 
that to try to protect these children here in the United States.
  Beyond serving as a deterrent for many in our society who continue to 
engage in the practice of female genital mutilation, this legislation 
will also provide appropriate punishment for violation of the FGM 
statute under 18 U.S.C. 116.
  For all these reasons, I ask my colleagues to support this bill.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  I would first like to thank the gentlewoman from Texas for helping to 
manage these two very important bills on the floor today.
  I, too, want to congratulate Mrs. Maloney and Mr. Trott on H.R. 3317, 
to ban this horrible procedure of FGM and really help to protect the 
women and girls of the United States.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, the Stopping Abusive Female Exploitation, 
or ``SAFE,'' Act addresses the internationally-recognized human rights 
violation of female genital mutilation (FGM). The Center for Disease 
Control estimates that approximately 500,000 women and girls in the US 
have undergone the procedure or are at risk of having it inflicted upon 
them, and it has only grown in prevalence over the last two decades. 
FGM provides no health benefits for women and girls, and has long-
lasting and harmful physical and psychological consequences.
  While FGM is rightly a federal crime under current law, the current 
penalty is insufficient. It does not reflect the barbaric and medieval 
nature of the crime; nor does it reflect the harm caused to these young 
girls. That is why we are considering the SAFE Act today.
  As a father and grandfather, I can think of no more important work 
than protecting our children from those who seek to do them harm.
  I commend Representative Dave Trott, an alumnus of this Committee, 
and Representative Carolyn Maloney, for introducing the SAFE Act and 
for their tireless efforts on behalf of FGM victims. I urge my 
colleagues to support this important legislation.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Rutherford) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3317, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



