

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7150]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following nominations: 
Executive Calendar Nos. 373, 374, 375, 392, 393, 394, 395, 396, 440, 
441, 442, 459, and 460.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of Robert 
M. Duncan, Jr., of Kentucky, to be United States Attorney for the 
Eastern District of Kentucky for the term of four years; Charles E. 
Peeler, of Georgia, to be United States Attorney for the Middle 
District of Georgia for the term of four years; Bryan D. Schroder, of 
Alaska, to be United States Attorney for the District of Alaska for the 
term of four years; Scott C. Blader, of Wisconsin, to be United States 
Attorney for the Western District of Wisconsin for the term of four 
years; John R. Lausch, Jr., of Illinois, to be United States Attorney 
for the Northern District of Illinois for the term of four years; J. 
Douglas Overbey, of Tennessee, to be United States Attorney for the 
Eastern District of Tennessee for the term of four years; Mark A. 
Klaassen, of Wyoming, to be United States Attorney for the District of 
Wyoming for the term of four years; William C. Lamar, of Mississippi, 
to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Mississippi 
for the term of four years; John F. Bash, of Texas, to be United States 
Attorney for the Western District of Texas for the term of four years; 
Erin Angela Nealy Cox, of Texas, to be United States Attorney for the 
Northern District of Texas for the term of four years; R. Andrew 
Murray, of North Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the Western 
District of North Carolina for the term of four years; Matthew G. T. 
Martin, of North Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the Middle 
District of North Carolina for the term of four years; and Christina E. 
Nolan, of Vermont, to be United States Attorney for the District of 
Vermont for the term of four years.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate vote on the 
nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; that if 
confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon 
the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified of the 
Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that any 
statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Duncan, 
Peeler, Schroder, Blader, Lausch, Overbey, Klaassen, Lamar, Bash, Nealy 
Cox, Murray, Martin, and Nolan nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



