

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9441-H9442]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                FOWLER AND BOSKOFF PEAKS DESIGNATION ACT

  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2768) to designate certain mountain peaks in the State of 
Colorado as ``Fowler Peak'' and ``Boskoff Peak''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2768

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Fowler and Boskoff Peaks 
     Designation Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds that--
       (1) Charlie Fowler was--
       (A) one of the most experienced mountain climbers in North 
     America, having successfully climbed many of the highest 
     peaks in the world;
       (B) an author, guide, filmmaker, photographer, and 
     wilderness advocate;
       (C) the recipient of the 2004 Robert and Miriam Underhill 
     Award from the American Alpine Club, an award that--
       (i) honors outstanding mountaineering achievement; and
       (ii) is awarded annually to climbers who have 
     ``demonstrated the highest level of skill in mountaineering 
     and who, through the application of this skill, courage, and 
     perseverance, have achieved outstanding success in the 
     various fields of mountaineering''; and
       (D) a summiter of several 8,000-meter peaks, specifically--
       (i) Everest;
       (ii) Cho Oyu; and
       (iii) Shishapangma;
       (2) Christine Boskoff--
       (A) was one of the leading female alpinists in the United 
     States, having climbed 6 of the 14 mountain peaks in the 
     world that are higher than 8,000 meters, specifically--
       (i) Everest;
       (ii) Cho Oyu;
       (iii) Gasherbrum II;
       (iv) Lhotse;
       (v) Shishapangma; and
       (vi) Broad Peak;
       (B) gave countless hours to nonprofit organizations that 
     supported--
       (i) the rights of porters and Sherpas;
       (ii) the education of women; and
       (iii) global literacy and gender equality; and
       (C) was recognized by the education communities in the 
     United States and Nepal as a role model for students;
       (3) Charlie Fowler and Christine Boskoff were long-time 
     residents of San Miguel County, Colorado, and champions for 
     Colorado's pristine backcountry;
       (4) Charlie Fowler and Christine Boskoff died in an 
     avalanche in November 2006 while attempting to summit Genyen 
     Peak in Tibet;
       (5) 2 unnamed 13,000-foot peaks located west of Wilson Peak 
     on the boundary of San Miguel and Dolores Counties, Colorado, 
     offer spectacular recreational climbing and hiking 
     opportunities; and
       (6) the local community in the vicinity of the peaks 
     described in paragraph (5) and fellow climbers propose to 
     honor and commemorate Charlie Fowler and Christine Boskoff by 
     naming the peaks after Charlie Fowler and Christine Boskoff.

     SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF FOWLER PEAK AND BOSKOFF PEAK, 
                   COLORADO.

       (a) Designation of Fowler Peak.--
       (1) In general.--The 13,498-foot mountain peak, located at 
     37.8569 N, by -108.0117 W, in the Uncompahgre National 
     Forest in the State of Colorado, shall be known and 
     designated as ``Fowler Peak''.
       (2) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     peak described in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a 
     reference to ``Fowler Peak''.
       (b) Designation of Boskoff Peak.--
       (1) In general.--The 13,123-foot mountain peak, located at 
     37.85549 N, by -108.03112 W, in the Uncompahgre National 
     Forest in the State of Colorado, shall be known and 
     designated as ``Boskoff Peak''.
       (2) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     peak described in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a 
     reference to ``Boskoff Peak''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Tipton) and the gentlewoman from California (Mrs. Torres) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Colorado.


                             General Leave

  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to 
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Colorado?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, my bill, the Fowler and Boskoff Peaks Designation Act, 
would designate two unnamed peaks in the Uncompahgre National Forest in 
Colorado as Fowler Peak and Boskoff Peak.
  Charlie Fowler and his partner, Christine ``Chris'' Boskoff, were 
longtime residents of San Miguel County, Colorado, and were avid 
alpinists.
  Charlie Fowler was one of North America's most experienced mountain 
climbers. He was also an author, a guide, a filmmaker, a photographer, 
and an advocate for the outdoors. Beginning in the mid-1980s, Charlie 
worked full time as a mountain guide, leading mountaineering 
expeditions in the United States and abroad.
  His photographs and articles were published in a variety of books and 
magazines, and he was the author of multiple mountaineering guidebooks. 
In 2004, Charlie was awarded the Robert and Miriam Underhill Award by 
the American Alpine Society, an honor given annually to an individual 
who has demonstrated the highest level of skill in the mountaineering 
arts and who, through the application of this skill, courage, and 
perseverance, has achieved outstanding success in the various fields of 
mountaineering endeavor.
  Christine Boskoff began her climbing career in 1993 and quickly rose 
to become a leader in the sport of mountaineering. Christine summited 
Mount Everest and five of the globe's more than 26,000-foot mountains. 
One of the world's leading female alpinists, a professional 
mountaineering guide and an adventure entrepreneur, Christine 
participated in numerous expeditions in the United States and on five 
continents.
  Charlie and Christine were also known for their philanthropic work. 
Charlie worked to promote his sport by installing climbing walls in 
schools across southwest Colorado. Christine was active in nonprofit 
organizations that supported the rights of porters and Sherpas, women's 
education, global literacy, and gender equality.
  Sadly, Charlie and Christine were killed in an avalanche in 2006 
while exploring a series of unclimbed summits in China's Sichuan 
province.
  The naming of these peaks is a fitting tribute to Charlie and 
Christine,

[[Page H9442]]

who were outstanding mountaineers and advocates for our Nation's 
treasured open spaces.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this measure.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. TORRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  H.R. 2768 names two peaks in the Uncompahgre National Forest in 
Colorado after Charlie Fowler and Christine Boskoff.
  Fowler and Boskoff were world-class rock climbers whose 
accomplishments left enduring legacies on the sport. Sadly, in 2016, 
the two set out to climb a mountain in a remote part of China near the 
Tibetan border and never returned.
  This bill and the renaming of the peaks is a fitting tribute and I 
support its adoption.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Reed). The question is on the motion 
offered by the gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Tipton) that the House 
suspend the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2768.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



