

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6452-S6453]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 1965. A bill to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
     of 1972 to protect the cultural practices and livelihoods of 
     producers of Alaska Native handicrafts and traditional 
     mammoth ivory products, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Mrs. Ernst):

[[Page S6453]]

  

       S. 1966. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     modify the regional conservation partnership program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
     and Forestry.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr. Toomey):
       S. 1967. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide additional exemptions to the individual mandate, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1968. A bill to direct the National Science Foundation 
     to award grants to encourage young girls to participate in 
     computer science and other STEM activities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. BOOKER:
       S. 1969. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to create a 
     program to provide funding for organizations that support 
     startup businesses in formation and early growth stages by 
     providing entrepreneurs with resources and services to 
     produce viable businesses, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. Kaine, and Mrs. 
             Feinstein):
       S. 1970. A bill to establish a public health plan; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 1971. A bill to provide air carriers with access to 
     information about applicants to be pilots from the National 
     Driver Register, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1972. A bill to improve the monitoring and reporting of 
     propane stocks and days of supply by the Administrator of the 
     Energy Information Administration with regard to propane 
     export volumes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 1973. A bill to provide for Federal research grant 
     reform; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 1974. A bill to require transparency in the tax code by 
     requiring federally funded tax credits to be disclosed in the 
     USASpending.gov website; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1975. A bill to designate additions to the Rich Hole 
     Wilderness and the Rough Mountain Wilderness of the George 
     Washington National Forest, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Cassidy, and 
             Mr. Warner):
       S. 1976. A bill to allow all individuals purchasing health 
     insurance in the individual market the option to purchase a 
     lower premium copper plan; to the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



