

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8701-H9136]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  CONFERENCE REPORT AND EXPLANATORY MATERIAL STATEMENT ON H.R. 2810, 
 NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018, SUBMITTED BY 
   MR. THORNBERRY, CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES

                  Conference Report (H. Rept. 115-404)

       The Committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of the 
     two Houses on the amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 
     2810), to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
     military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
     military construction, and for defense activities of the 
     Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
     strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes, 
     having met, after full and free conference, have agreed to 
     recommend and do recommend to their respective Houses as 
     follows:
       That the House recede from its disagreement to the 
     amendment of the Senate and agree to the same with an 
     amendment as follows:
       In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by the Senate 
     amendment, insert the following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018''.

     SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF 
                   CONTENTS.

       (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into four divisions 
     as follows:
       (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
       (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
       (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
     Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
       (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Authority to expedite procurement of 7.62mm rifles.
Sec. 112. Limitation on availability of funds for Increment 2 of the 
              Warfighter Information Network-Tactical program.
Sec. 113. Limitation on availability of funds for upgrade of M113 
              vehicles.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Aircraft carriers.
Sec. 122. Icebreaker vessel.
Sec. 123. Multiyear procurement authority for Arleigh Burke class 
              destroyers.
Sec. 124. Multiyear procurement authority for Virginia class submarine 
              program.
Sec. 125. Design and construction of the lead ship of the amphibious 
              ship replacement designated LX(R) or amphibious transport 
              dock designated LPD-30.
Sec. 126. Multiyear procurement authority for V-22 Osprey aircraft.
Sec. 127. Extension of limitation on use of sole-source shipbuilding 
              contracts for certain vessels.
Sec. 128. Limitation on availability of funds for the enhanced multi-
              mission parachute system.
Sec. 129. Report on Navy capacity to increase production of certain 
              rotary wing aircraft.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 131. Inventory requirement for Air Force fighter aircraft.
Sec. 132. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of E-8 
              JSTARS aircraft.
Sec. 133. Requirement for continuation of JSTARS aircraft 
              recapitalization program.
Sec. 134. Limitation on selection of single contractor for C-130H 
              avionics modernization program increment 2.
Sec. 135. Limitation on availability of funds for EC-130H Compass Call 
              recapitalization program.
Sec. 136. Limitation on retirement of U-2 and RQ-4 aircraft.
Sec. 137. Cost-benefit analysis of upgrades to MQ-9 Reaper aircraft.
Sec. 138. Plan for modernization of the radar for F-16 fighter aircraft 
              of the National Guard.
Sec. 139. Comptroller General review of Air Force fielding plan for HH-
              60 replacement programs.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 141. F-35 economic order quantity contracting authority.
Sec. 142. Authority for explosive ordnance disposal units to acquire 
              new or emerging technologies and capabilities.
Sec. 143.  Requirement that certain aircraft and unmanned aerial 
              vehicles use specified standard data link.
Sec. 144. Reinstatement of requirement to preserve certain C-5 
              aircraft; mobility capability and requirements study.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Cost controls for presidential aircraft recapitalization 
              program.
Sec. 212. Capital investment authority.
Sec. 213. Prizes for advanced technology achievements.
Sec. 214. Joint Hypersonics Transition Office.
Sec. 215. Department of Defense directed energy weapon system 
              prototyping and demonstration program.
Sec. 216. Appropriate use of authority for prototype projects.
Sec. 217. Mechanisms for expedited access to technical talent and 
              expertise at academic institutions to support Department 
              of Defense missions.
Sec. 218. Modification of laboratory quality enhancement program.
Sec. 219. Reauthorization of Department of Defense Established Program 
              to Stimulate Competitive Research.
Sec. 220. Codification and enhancement of authorities to provide funds 
              for defense laboratories for research and development of 
              technologies for military missions.
Sec. 221. Expansion of definition of competitive procedures to include 
              competitive selection for award of science and technology 
              proposals.
Sec. 222. Inclusion of modeling and simulation in test and evaluation 
              activities for purposes of planning and budget 
              certification.
Sec. 223. Limitation on availability of funds for F-35 Joint Strike 
              Fighter Follow-On Modernization.

[[Page H8702]]

Sec. 224. Improvement of update process for populating mission data 
              files used in advanced combat aircraft.
Sec. 225. Support for national security innovation and entrepreneurial 
              education.
Sec. 226. Limitation on cancellation of designation Executive Agent for 
              a certain Defense Production Act program.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 231. Columbia-class program accountability matrices.
Sec. 232. Review of barriers to innovation in research and engineering 
              activities of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 233. Pilot program to improve incentives for technology transfer 
              from Department of Defense laboratories.
Sec. 234. Competitive acquisition plan for low probability of detection 
              data link networks.
Sec. 235. Clarification of selection dates for pilot program for the 
              enhancement of the research, development, test, and 
              evaluation centers of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 236. Requirement for a plan to build a prototype for a new ground 
              combat vehicle for the Army.
Sec. 237. Plan for successfully fielding the Integrated Air and Missile 
              Defense Battle Command System.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Military Aviation and Installation Assurance Siting 
              Clearinghouse.
Sec. 312. Energy performance goals and master plan.
Sec. 313. Payment to Environmental Protection Agency of stipulated 
              penalty in connection with Umatilla Chemical Depot, 
              Oregon.
Sec. 314. Payment to Environmental Protection Agency of stipulated 
              penalty in connection with Longhorn Army Ammunition 
              Plant, Texas.
Sec. 315. Department of the Army cleanup and removal of petroleum, oil, 
              and lubricant associated with the Prinz Eugen.
Sec. 316. Centers for Disease Control study on health implications of 
              per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances contamination in 
              drinking water.
Sec. 317. Sentinel Landscapes Partnership.
Sec. 318. Report on release of radium or radioactive material into the 
              groundwater near the industrial reserve plant in 
              Bethpage, New York.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 321. Reauthorization of multi-trades demonstration project.
Sec. 322. Increased percentage of sustainment funds authorized for 
              realignment to restoration and modernization at each 
              installation.
Sec. 323. Guidance regarding use of organic industrial base.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Quarterly reports on personnel and unit readiness.
Sec. 332. Biennial report on core depot-level maintenance and repair 
              capability.
Sec. 333. Annual report on personnel, training, and equipment needs of 
              non-federalized National Guard.
Sec. 334. Annual report on military working dogs used by the Department 
              of Defense.
Sec. 335. Report on effects of climate change on Department of Defense.
Sec. 336. Report on optimization of training in and management of 
              special use airspace.
Sec. 337. Plan for modernized, dedicated Department of the Navy 
              adversary air training enterprise.
Sec. 338. Updated guidance regarding biennial core report.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Explosive safety board.
Sec. 342. Servicewomen's commemorative partnerships.
Sec. 343. Limitation on availability of funds for advanced skills 
              management software system of the Navy.
Sec. 344. Cost-benefit analysis of uniform specifications for Afghan 
              military or security forces.
Sec. 345. Temporary installation reutilization authority for arsenals, 
              depots, and plants.
Sec. 346. Comprehensive plan for sharing depot-level maintenance best 
              practices.
Sec. 347. Pilot program for operation and maintenance budget 
              presentation.
Sec. 348. Repurposing and reuse of surplus Army firearms.
Sec. 349. Department of the Navy marksmanship awards.
Sec. 350. Civilian training for National Guard pilots and sensor 
              operator aircrews of MQ-9 unmanned aerial vehicles.
Sec. 351. Training for National Guard personnel on wildfire response.
Sec. 352. Modification of the Second Division Memorial.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
              levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
              reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2018 limitation on number of non-dual status 
              technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
              active duty for operational support.
Sec. 416. Number of members of the National Guard on full-time duty in 
              support of the reserves within the National Guard Bureau.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Modification of deadline for submittal by officers of written 
              communications to promotion selection boards on matters 
              of importance to their selection.
Sec. 502. Clarification to exception for removal of officers from list 
              of officers recommended for promotion after 18 months 
              without appointment.
Sec. 503. Modification of requirement for specification of number of 
              officers who may be recommended for early retirement by a 
              Selective Early Retirement Board.
Sec. 504. Extension of service-in-grade waiver authority for voluntary 
              retirement of certain general and flag officers for 
              purposes of enhanced flexibility in officer personnel 
              management.
Sec. 505. Inclusion of Principal Military Deputy to the Assistant 
              Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, and 
              Logistics among officers subject to repeal of statutory 
              specification of general officer grade.
Sec. 506. Clarification of effect of repeal of statutory specification 
              of general or flag officer grade for various positions in 
              the Armed Forces.
Sec. 507. Standardization of authorities in connection with repeal of 
              statutory specification of general officer grade for the 
              Dean of the Academic Board of the United States Military 
              Academy and the Dean of the Faculty of the United States 
              Air Force Academy.
Sec. 508. Flexibility in promotion of officers to positions of Staff 
              Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps and 
              Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy or Air Force.
Sec. 509. Grandfathering of retired grade of Assistant Judge Advocates 
              General of the Navy as of repeal of statutory 
              specification of general and flag officers grades in the 
              Armed Forces.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Equal treatment of orders to serve on active duty under 
              sections 12304a and 12304b of title 10, United States 
              Code.
Sec. 512. Service credit for cyberspace experience or advanced 
              education upon original appointment as a commissioned 
              officer.
Sec. 513. Consolidation of authorities to order members of the reserve 
              components of the Armed Forces to perform duty.
Sec. 514. Pilot program on use of retired senior enlisted members of 
              the Army National Guard as Army National Guard 
              recruiters.

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

   Part I--Matters Relating to Discharge and Correction of Military 
                                Records

Sec. 520. Consideration of additional medical evidence by Boards for 
              the Correction of Military Records and liberal 
              consideration of evidence relating to post-traumatic 
              stress disorder or traumatic brain injury.
Sec. 521. Public availability of information related to disposition of 
              claims regarding discharge or release of members of the 
              Armed Forces when the claims involve sexual assault.
Sec. 522. Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge 
              of members who are victims of sex-related offenses.
Sec. 523. Training requirements for members of boards for the 
              correction of military records and personnel who 
              investigate claims of retaliation.
Sec. 524. Pilot program on use of video teleconferencing technology by 
              boards for the correction of military records and 
              discharge review boards.

               Part II--Other General Service Authorities

Sec. 526. Modification of basis for extension of period for enlistment 
              in the Armed Forces under the Delayed Entry Program.
Sec. 527. Reauthorization of authority to order retired members to 
              active duty in high-demand, low-density assignments.

[[Page H8703]]

Sec. 528. Notification of members of the Armed Forces undergoing 
              certain administrative separations of potential 
              eligibility for veterans benefits.
Sec. 529. Extension of authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
              to provide for the conduct of medical disability 
              examinations by contract physicians.
Sec. 530. Provision of information on naturalization through military 
              service.

          Subtitle D--Military Justice and Other Legal Issues

Sec. 531. Clarifying amendments related to the Uniform Code of Military 
              Justice reform by the Military Justice Act of 2016.
Sec. 532. Enhancement of effective prosecution and defense in courts-
              martial and related matters.
Sec. 533. Punitive article under the Uniform Code of Military Justice 
              on wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual 
              images or visual images of sexually explicit conduct.
Sec. 534. Garnishment to satisfy judgment rendered for physically, 
              sexually, or emotionally abusing a child.
Sec. 535. Sexual assault prevention and response training for all 
              individuals enlisted in the Armed Forces under a delayed 
              entry program.
Sec. 536. Special Victims' Counsel training regarding the unique 
              challenges often faced by male victims of sexual assault.
Sec. 537. Inclusion of information in annual SAPRO reports regarding 
              military sexual harassment and incidents involving 
              nonconsensual distribution of private sexual images.
Sec. 538. Inclusion of information in annual SAPRO reports regarding 
              sexual assaults committed by a member of the Armed Forces 
              against the member's spouse or other family member.

   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

Sec. 541. Element in preseparation counseling for members of the Armed 
              Forces on assistance and support services for caregivers 
              of certain veterans through the Department of Veterans 
              Affairs.
Sec. 542. Improved employment assistance for members of the Army, Navy, 
              Air Force, and Marine Corps and veterans.
Sec. 543. Limitation on release of military service academy graduates 
              to participate in professional athletics.
Sec. 544. Two-year extension of suicide prevention and resilience 
              program for the National Guard and Reserves.
Sec. 545. Annual certifications related to Ready, Relevant Learning 
              initiative of the Navy.
Sec. 546. Authority to expand eligibility for the United States 
              Military Apprenticeship Program.
Sec. 547. Limitation on availability of funds for attendance of Air 
              Force enlisted personnel at Air Force officer 
              professional military education in-residence courses.
Sec. 548. Lieutenant Henry Ossian Flipper Leadership Scholarships.
Sec. 549. Pilot programs on appointment in the excepted service in the 
              Department of Defense of physically disqualified former 
              cadets and midshipmen.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             Part I--Defense Dependents' Education Matters

Sec. 551. Assistance to schools with military dependent students.
Sec. 552. Transitions of military dependent students from Department of 
              Defense dependent schools to other schools and among 
              schools of local educational agencies.
Sec. 553. Report on educational opportunities in science, technology, 
              engineering, and mathematics for children who are 
              dependents of members of the Armed Forces.

               Part II--Military Family Readiness Matters

Sec. 555. Codification of authority to conduct family support programs 
              for immediate family members of members of the Armed 
              Forces assigned to special operations forces.
Sec. 556. Reimbursement for State licensure and certification costs of 
              a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces arising from 
              relocation to another State.
Sec. 557. Temporary extension of extended period of protections for 
              members of uniformed services relating to mortgages, 
              mortgage foreclosure, and eviction.
Sec. 558. Enhancing military childcare programs and activities of the 
              Department of Defense.
Sec. 559. Direct hire authority for Department of Defense for childcare 
              services providers for Department child development 
              centers.
Sec. 560. Pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework 
              facilities for military spouses on military installations 
              outside the United States.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 561. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to Garlin M. 
              Conner for acts of valor during World War II.
Sec. 562. Authorization for award of Distinguished-Service Cross to 
              Specialist Frank M. Crary for acts of valor in Vietnam.

            Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

Sec. 571. Analysis and report on accompanied and unaccompanied tours of 
              duty in remote locations with high family support costs.
Sec. 572. Review and reports on policies for regular and reserve 
              officer career management.
Sec. 573. Review and report on effects of personnel requirements and 
              limitations on the availability of members of the 
              National Guard for the performance of funeral honors duty 
              for veterans.
Sec. 574. Review and report on authorities for the employment, use, and 
              status of National Guard and Reserve technicians.
Sec. 575. Assessment and report on expanding and contracting for 
              childcare services of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 576. Review and report on compensation provided childcare services 
              providers of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 577. Comptroller General of the United States assessment and 
              report on the Office of Complex Investigations within the 
              National Guard Bureau.
Sec. 578. Modification of submittal date of Comptroller General of the 
              United States report on integrity of the Department of 
              Defense whistleblower program.

                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

Sec. 581. Expansion of United States Air Force Institute of Technology 
              enrollment authority to include civilian employees of the 
              homeland security industry.
Sec. 582. Conditional designation of Explosive Ordnance Disposal Corps 
              as a basic branch of the Army.
Sec. 583. Designation of office within Office of the Secretary of 
              Defense to oversee use of food assistance programs by 
              members of the Armed Forces on active duty.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Annual adjustment of basic monthly pay.
Sec. 602. Prohibiting collection of additional amounts from members 
              living in units under Military Housing Privatization 
              Initiative.
Sec. 603. Limitation on modification of payment authority for Military 
              Housing Privatization Initiative housing.
Sec. 604. Housing treatment for certain members of the Armed Forces, 
              and their spouses and other dependents, undergoing a 
              permanent change of station within the United States.
Sec. 605. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates 
              of basic allowance for housing under certain 
              circumstances.
Sec. 606. Reevaluation of BAH for the military housing area including 
              Staten Island.

            Subtitle B--Bonus and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
              authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
              authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
              nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
              consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
              authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of 
              other title 37 bonuses and special pays.
Sec. 616. Report regarding the national pilot shortage.
Sec. 617. Special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities for 
              enlisted members who operate remotely piloted aircraft.
Sec. 618. Technical and conforming amendments relating to 2008 
              consolidation of special pay authorities.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Permanent extension and cost-of-living adjustments of special 
              survivor indemnity allowances under the Survivor Benefit 
              Plan.
Sec. 622. Adjustments to Survivor Benefit Plan for members electing 
              lump sum payments of retired pay under the modernized 
              retirement system for members of the uniformed services.

[[Page H8704]]

Sec. 623. Technical correction regarding election to participate in 
              modernized retirement system for reserve component 
              members experiencing a break in service.
Sec. 624. Technical corrections to use of member's current pay grade 
              and years of service in a division of property involving 
              disposable retired pay.
Sec. 625. Continuation pay for the Coast Guard.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 631. Land conveyance authority, Army and Air Force Exchange 
              Service property, Dallas, Texas.
Sec. 632. Authority for the Secretaries of the military departments to 
              provide for care of remains of those who die on active 
              duty and are interred in a foreign cemetery.
Sec. 633. Construction of domestic source requirement for footwear 
              furnished to enlisted members of the Armed Forces on 
              initial entry into the Armed Forces.
Sec. 634. Review and update of regulations governing debt collectors 
              interactions with unit commanders of members of the Armed 
              Forces.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Continued access to medical care at facilities of the 
              uniformed services for certain members of the reserve 
              components.
Sec. 702. Modifications of cost-sharing requirements for the TRICARE 
              Pharmacy Benefits Program and treatment of certain 
              pharmaceutical agents.
Sec. 703. Provision of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for certain members of 
              the Armed Forces.
Sec. 704. Specification that individuals under the age of 21 are 
              eligible for hospice care services under the TRICARE 
              program.
Sec. 705. Physical examinations for members of a reserve component who 
              are separating from the Armed Forces.
Sec. 706. Mental health assessments before members separate from the 
              Armed Forces.
Sec. 707. Expansion of sexual trauma counseling and treatment for 
              members of the reserve components.
Sec. 708. Expedited evaluation and treatment for prenatal surgery under 
              the TRICARE program.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Maintenance of inpatient capabilities of military medical 
              treatment facilities located outside the United States.
Sec. 712. Modification of priority for evaluation and treatment of 
              individuals at military treatment facilities.
Sec. 713. Clarification of administration of military medical treatment 
              facilities.
Sec. 714. Regular update of prescription drug pricing standard under 
              TRICARE retail pharmacy program.
Sec. 715. Modification of execution of TRICARE contracting 
              responsibilities.
Sec. 716. Additional emergency uses for medical products to reduce 
              deaths and severity of injuries caused by agents of war.
Sec. 717. Modification of determination of average wait times at urgent 
              care clinics and pharmacies at military medical treatment 
              facilities under pilot program.
Sec. 718. Requirement for reimbursement by Department of Defense to 
              entities carrying out State vaccination programs for 
              costs of vaccines provided to covered beneficiaries.
Sec. 719. Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-
              Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
              Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 720. Residency requirements for podiatrists.
Sec. 721. Authorization of physical therapist assistants and 
              occupational therapy assistants to provide services under 
              the TRICARE program.
Sec. 722. Selection of military commanders and directors of military 
              medical treatment facilities.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 731. Pilot program on health care assistance system.
Sec. 732. Feasibility study on conduct of pilot program on mental 
              health readiness of part-time members of the reserve 
              components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 733. Report on plan to improve pediatric care and related services 
              for children of members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 734. Longitudinal medical study on blast pressure exposure of 
              members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 735. Study on safe opioid prescribing practices.
Sec. 736. Report on implementation of GAO recommendations.
Sec. 737. Declassification by Department of Defense of certain 
              incidents of exposure of members of the Armed Forces to 
              toxic substances.
Sec. 738. Coordination by Veterans Health Administration of efforts to 
              understand effects of burn pits.
Sec. 739. TRICARE technical amendments.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Statements of purpose for Department of Defense acquisition.
Sec. 802. Management of intellectual property matters within the 
              Department of Defense.
Sec. 803. Performance of incurred cost audits.
Sec. 804. Repeal of certain auditing requirements.
Sec. 805. Increased simplified acquisition threshold.
Sec. 806. Requirements related to the micro-purchase threshold.
Sec. 807. Process for enhanced supply chain scrutiny.
Sec. 808. Defense policy advisory committee on technology.
Sec. 809. Report on extension of development, acquisition, and 
              sustainment authorities of the military departments to 
              the United States Special Operations Command.
Sec. 810 . Technical and conforming amendments related to program 
              management provisions.

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

Sec. 811. Modifications to cost or pricing data and reporting 
              requirements.
Sec. 812. Applicability of cost and pricing data certification 
              requirements.
Sec. 813. Sunset of certain provisions relating to the procurement of 
              goods other than United States goods.
Sec. 814. Comptroller General report on health and safety records.
Sec. 815. Limitation on unilateral definitization.
Sec. 816. Amendment to sustainment reviews.
Sec. 817. Use of program income by eligible entities that carry out 
              procurement technical assistance programs.
Sec. 818. Enhanced post-award debriefing rights.
Sec. 819. Amendments relating to information technology.
Sec. 820. Change to definition of subcontract in certain circumstances.
Sec. 821. Amendment relating to applicability of inflation adjustments.
Sec. 822. Use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection 
              process.
Sec. 823. Exemption from design-build selection procedures.
Sec. 824. Contract closeout authority.
Sec. 825. Elimination of cost underruns as factor in calculation of 
              penalties for cost overruns.
Sec. 826. Modification to annual meeting requirement of Configuration 
              Steering Boards.
Sec. 827. Pilot program on payment of costs for denied Government 
              Accountability Office bid protests.

 Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 831. Revisions to definition of major defense acquisition program.
Sec. 832. Prohibition on use of lowest price technically acceptable 
              source selection process for major defense acquisition 
              programs.
Sec. 833. Role of the Chief of the armed force in material development 
              decision and acquisition system milestones.
Sec. 834. Requirement to emphasize reliability and maintainability in 
              weapon system design.
Sec. 835. Licensing of appropriate intellectual property to support 
              major weapon systems.
Sec. 836. Codification of requirements pertaining to assessment, 
              management, and control of operating and support costs 
              for major weapon systems.
Sec. 837. Should-cost management.
Sec. 838. Improvements to test and evaluation processes and tools.
Sec. 839. Enhancements to transparency in test and evaluation processes 
              and data.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 841. Enhancements to the civilian program management workforce.
Sec. 842. Credits to Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
              Development Fund.
Sec. 843. Improvements to the hiring and training of the acquisition 
              workforce.
Sec. 844. Extension and modifications to acquisition demonstration 
              project.

          Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

Sec. 846. Procurement through commercial e-commerce portals.
Sec. 847. Revision to definition of commercial item.
Sec. 848. Commercial item determinations.
Sec. 849. Review of regulations on commercial items.
Sec. 850. Training in commercial items procurement.

        Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Services Contracting

Sec. 851. Improvement of planning for acquisition of services.
Sec. 852. Standard guidelines for evaluation of requirements for 
              services contracts.
Sec. 853. Report on outcome-based services contracts.
Sec. 854. Pilot program for longer term multiyear service contracts.

[[Page H8705]]

  Subtitle G--Provisions Relating to Other Transaction Authority and 
                              Prototyping

Sec. 861. Contract authority for advanced development of initial or 
              additional prototype units.
Sec. 862. Methods for entering into research agreements.
Sec. 863. Education and training for transactions other than contracts 
              and grants.
Sec. 864. Other transaction authority for certain prototype projects.
Sec. 865. Amendment to nontraditional and small contractor innovation 
              prototyping program.
Sec. 866. Middle tier of acquisition for rapid prototype and rapid 
              fielding.
Sec. 867. Preference for use of other transactions and experimental 
              authority.
Sec. 868. Prototype projects to digitize defense acquisition 
              regulations, policies, and guidance, and empower user 
              tailoring of acquisition process.

        Subtitle H--Provisions Relating to Software Acquisition

Sec. 871. Noncommercial computer software acquisition considerations.
Sec. 872. Defense Innovation Board analysis of software acquisition 
              regulations.
Sec. 873. Pilot program to use agile or iterative development methods 
              to tailor major software-intensive warfighting systems 
              and defense business systems.
Sec. 874. Software development pilot program using agile best 
              practices.
Sec. 875. Pilot program for open source software.

                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

Sec. 881. Extension of maximum duration of fuel storage contracts.
Sec. 882. Procurement of aviation critical safety items.
Sec. 883. Modifications to the advisory panel on streamlining and 
              codifying acquisition regulations.
Sec. 884. Repeal of expired pilot program for leasing commercial 
              utility cargo vehicles.
Sec. 885. Exception for business operations from requirement to accept 
              $1 coins.
Sec. 886. Development of Procurement Administrative Lead Time.
Sec. 887. Notional milestones and standard timelines for contracts for 
              foreign military sales.
Sec. 888. Assessment and authority to terminate or prohibit contracts 
              for procurement from Chinese companies providing support 
              to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
Sec. 889. Report on defense contracting fraud.
Sec. 890. Comptroller General report on contractor business system 
              requirements.
Sec. 891. Training on agile or iterative development methods.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Treatment of incumbent Under Secretary of Defense for 
              Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
Sec. 902. Clarification of authority of Under Secretary of Defense for 
              Acquisition and Sustainment with respect to service 
              acquisition programs for which the service acquisition 
              executive is the milestone decision authority.
Sec. 903. Executive Schedule matters relating to Under Secretary of 
              Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
Sec. 904. Consistent period of relief from active duty as a 
              commissioned officer of a regular component of the Armed 
              Forces for appointment to Under Secretary of Defense 
              positions.
Sec. 905. Qualifications for appointment and additional duties and 
              powers of certain officials within the Office of the 
              Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
Sec. 906. Redesignation of Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of 
              Defense as Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense and 
              related matters.
Sec. 907. Reduction of number and elimination of specific designations 
              of Assistant Secretaries of Defense.
Sec. 908. Limitation on maximum number of Deputy Assistant Secretaries 
              of Defense.
Sec. 909. Appointment and responsibilities of Chief Information Officer 
              of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 910. Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.

               Subtitle B--Data Management and Analytics

Sec. 911. Policy on treatment of defense business system data related 
              to business operations and management.
Sec. 912. Transparency of defense management data.
Sec. 913. Establishment of set of activities that use data analysis, 
              measurement, and other evaluation-related methods to 
              improve acquisition program outcomes.

  Subtitle C--Organization of Other Department of Defense Offices and 
                                Elements

Sec. 921. Qualifications for appointment of Assistant Secretaries of 
              the military departments for financial management.
Sec. 922. Manner of carrying out reductions in major Department of 
              Defense headquarters activities pursuant to headquarters 
              reduction plan.
Sec. 923. Certifications on cost savings achieved by reductions in 
              major Department of Defense headquarters activities.
Sec. 924. Corrosion control and prevention executives matters.
Sec. 925. Background and security investigations for Department of 
              Defense personnel.

            Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

Sec. 931. Additional elements in reports on policy, organization, and 
              management goals of the Secretary of Defense for the 
              Department of Defense.
Sec. 932. Report and sense of Congress on responsibility for 
              developmental test and evaluation within the Office of 
              the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 933. Report on Office of Corrosion Policy and Oversight.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 941. Commission on the National Defense Strategy for the United 
              States.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Consolidation, codification, and improvement of certain 
              authorities and requirements in connection with the audit 
              of the financial statements of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1003. Improper payment matters.
Sec. 1004. Rankings of auditability of financial statements of the 
              organizations and elements of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1005. Financial operations dashboard for the Department of 
              Defense.
Sec. 1006. Review and recommendations on efforts to obtain audit 
              opinion on full financial statements.
Sec. 1007. Notification requirement for certain contracts for audit 
              services.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1011. Extension of authority to support a unified counterdrug and 
              counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1012. Venue for prosecution of maritime drug trafficking.

                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1022. Use of National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund for multiyear 
              procurement of certain critical components.
Sec. 1023. Operational readiness of littoral combat ships on extended 
              deployment.
Sec. 1024. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
              Ticonderoga-class cruisers or dock landing ships.
Sec. 1025. Policy of the United States on minimum number of battle 
              force ships.
Sec. 1026. Surveying ships.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Modification of authority on support of special operations 
              to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1032. Termination of requirement to submit annual budget 
              justification display for Department of Defense combating 
              terrorism program.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
              individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
              Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States.
Sec. 1034. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify 
              facilities in the United States to house detainees 
              transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
              Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1035. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
              individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
              Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to certain countries.
Sec. 1036. Prohibition on use of funds to close or relinquish control 
              of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1037. Sense of Congress regarding providing for timely victim and 
              family testimony in military commission trials.
Sec. 1038. Report on public availability of military commissions 
              proceedings.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. Limitation on expenditure of funds for emergency and 
              extraordinary expenses for intelligence and counter-
              intelligence activities.
Sec. 1042. Matters relating to the submittal of future-years defense 
              programs.
Sec. 1043. Modifications to humanitarian demining assistance 
              authorities.
Sec. 1044. Prohibition on charge of certain tariffs on aircraft 
              traveling through channel routes.
Sec. 1045. Prohibition on lobbying activities with respect to the 
              Department of Defense by certain officers of the Armed 
              Forces and civilian employees of the Department following 
              separation from military service or employment with the 
              Department.
Sec. 1046. Prohibition on use of funds for retirement of legacy 
              maritime mine countermeasures platforms.
Sec. 1047. Report on western Pacific Ocean ship depot maintenance 
              capability and capacity.

[[Page H8706]]

Sec. 1048. Annual training regarding the influence campaign of the 
              Russian Federation.
Sec. 1049. Workforce issues for military realignments in the Pacific.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1051. Elimination of reporting requirements terminated after 
              November 25, 2017, pursuant to section 1080 of the 
              National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.
Sec. 1052. Report on transfer of defense articles to units committing 
              gross violations of human rights.
Sec. 1053. Report on the National Biodefense Analysis and 
              Countermeasures Center.
Sec. 1054. Report on Department of Defense Arctic capability and 
              resource gaps and required infrastructure.
Sec. 1055. Review and assessment of Department of Defense personnel 
              recovery and nonconventional assisted recovery 
              mechanisms.
Sec. 1056. Mine warfare readiness inspection plan and report.
Sec. 1057. Annual report on civilian casualties in connection with 
              United States military operations.
Sec. 1058. Report on Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex modernization.
Sec. 1059. Report on alternatives to aqueous film forming foam.
Sec. 1060. Assessment of global force posture.
Sec. 1061. Army modernization strategy.
Sec. 1062. Report on Army plan to improve operational unit readiness by 
              reducing number of non-deployable soldiers assigned to 
              operational units.
Sec. 1063. Efforts to combat physiological episodes on certain Navy 
              aircraft.
Sec. 1064. Studies on aircraft inventories for the Air Force.
Sec. 1065. Department of Defense review of Navy capabilities in the 
              Arctic region.
Sec. 1066. Comprehensive review of maritime intelligence, surveillance, 
              reconnaissance, and targeting capabilities.
Sec. 1067. Report on the need for a Joint Chemical-Biological Defense 
              Logistics Center.
Sec. 1068. Missile Technology Control Regime Category I unmanned aerial 
              vehicle systems.
Sec. 1069. Recommendations for interagency vetting of foreign 
              investments affecting national security.
Sec. 1070. Briefing on prior attempted Russian cyber attacks against 
              defense systems.
Sec. 1071. Enhanced analytical and monitoring capability of the defense 
              industrial base.
Sec. 1072. Report on defense of combat logistics and strategic mobility 
              forces.
Sec. 1073. Report on acquisition strategy to recapitalize the existing 
              system for undersea fixed surveillance.
Sec. 1074. Report on implementation of requirements in connection with 
              the organization of the Department of Defense for 
              management of special operations forces and special 
              operations.
Sec. 1075. Report on the global food system and vulnerabilities 
              relevant to Department of Defense missions.

             Subtitle G--Modernizing Government Technology

Sec. 1076. Definitions.
Sec. 1077. Establishment of agency information technology systems 
              modernization and working capital funds.
Sec. 1078. Establishment of technology modernization fund and board.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Technical, conforming, and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1082. Clarification of applicability of certain provisions of law 
              to civilian judges of the United States Court of Military 
              Commission Review.
Sec. 1083. Modification of requirement relating to conversion of 
              certain military technician (dual status) positions to 
              civilian positions.
Sec. 1084. National Guard accessibility to Department of Defense issued 
              unmanned aircraft.
Sec. 1085. Sense of Congress regarding aircraft carriers.
Sec. 1086. Sense of Congress recognizing the United States Navy 
              Seabees.
Sec. 1087. Construction of memorial to the crew of the Apollo I launch 
              test accident at Arlington National Cemetery.
Sec. 1088. Department of Defense engagement with covered non-Federal 
              entities.
Sec. 1089. Prize competition to identify root cause of physiological 
              episodes on Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force training 
              and operational aircraft.
Sec. 1090. Providing assistance to House of Representatives in response 
              to cybersecurity events.
Sec. 1091. Transfer of surplus firearms to Corporation for the 
              Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety.
Sec. 1092. Collaboration between Federal Aviation Administration and 
              Department of Defense on unmanned aircraft systems.
Sec. 1093. Carriage of certain programming.
Sec. 1094. National strategy for countering violent extremism.
Sec. 1095. Sense of Congress regarding World War I.
Sec. 1096. Notice to Congress of terms of Department of Defense 
              settlement agreements.
Sec. 1097. Office of Special Counsel reauthorization.
Sec. 1098. Air transportation of civilian Department of Defense 
              personnel to and from Afghanistan.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Direct hire authority for the Department of Defense for 
              personnel to assist in business transformation and 
              management innovation.
Sec. 1102. Extension of direct hire authority for Domestic Defense 
              Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test 
              Facilities Base.
Sec. 1103. Extension of authority to provide voluntary separation 
              incentive pay for civilian employees of the Department of 
              Defense.
Sec. 1104. Additional Department of Defense science and technology 
              reinvention laboratories.
Sec. 1105. One year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
              on premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for 
              Federal civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1106. Direct hire authority for financial management experts in 
              the Department of Defense workforce.
Sec. 1107. Extension of authority for temporary personnel flexibilities 
              for Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major 
              Range and Test Facilities Base civilian personnel.
Sec. 1108. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
              allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian 
              personnel on official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1109. Extension of overtime rate authority for Department of the 
              Navy employees performing work aboard or dockside in 
              support of the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier forward 
              deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1110. Pilot program on enhanced personnel management system for 
              cybsersecurity and legal professionals in the Department 
              of Defense.
Sec. 1111. Establishment of senior scientific technical managers at 
              Major Range and Test Facility Base Facilities and Defense 
              Test Resource Management Center.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition 
              forces supporting certain United States military 
              operations.
Sec. 1202. Support of special operations for irregular warfare.
Sec. 1203. Obligation of funds in Special Defense Acquisition Fund for 
              precision guided munitions.
Sec. 1204. Modification of defense institution capacity building and 
              authority to build capacity of foreign security forces.
Sec. 1205. Extension and modification of authority on training for 
              Eastern European national security forces in the course 
              of multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1206. Global Security Contingency Fund.
Sec. 1207. Defense Institute of International Legal Studies.
Sec. 1208. Extension of participation in and support of the Inter-
              American Defense College.
Sec. 1209. Plan on improvement of ability of national security forces 
              of foreign countries participating in United States 
              capacity building programs to protect civilians.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
              provide defense services to the military and security 
              forces of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
              certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
              States military operations.
Sec. 1213. Special immigrant visas for Afghan allies.
Sec. 1214. Extension of authority to acquire products and services 
              produced in countries along a major route of supply to 
              Afghanistan.
Sec. 1215. Extension of semiannual report on enhancing security and 
              stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Human rights vetting of Afghan National Defense and Security 
              Forces.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Report on United States strategy in Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority to provide 
              assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and 
              Syria.
Sec. 1223. Modification of authority to provide assistance to the 
              vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1224. Extension and modification of authority to support 
              operations and activities of the Office of Security 
              Cooperation in Iraq.

[[Page H8707]]

Sec. 1225. Modification and additional elements in annual report on the 
              military power of Iran.
Sec. 1226. Extension of quarterly reports on confirmed ballistic 
              missile launches from Iran and imposition of sanctions in 
              connection with those launches.
Sec. 1227. Limitation on use of funds for provision of man-portable air 
              defense systems to the vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1228. Report on agreement with the Government of the Russian 
              Federation on the status of Syria.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the 
              United States and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
              of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Sense of Congress on European security.
Sec. 1234. Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance 
              Initiative.
Sec. 1235. Limitation on availability of funds relating to 
              implementation of the Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1236. Sense of Congress on importance of nuclear capabilities of 
              NATO.
Sec. 1237. Report on Security Cooperation with respect to Western 
              Balkan Countries.
Sec. 1238. Plan to respond in case of Russian noncompliance with the 
              New START Treaty.
Sec. 1239. Strategy to counter threats by the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1239A. Strategy to counter the threat of malign influence by the 
              Russian Federation.

Subtitle E--Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Preservation 
                              Act of 2017

Sec. 1241. Short title.
Sec. 1242. Findings.
Sec. 1243. Compliance enforcement regarding Russian violations of the 
              INF Treaty.
Sec. 1244. Notification requirement related to Russian Federation 
              development of noncompliant systems and United States 
              actions regarding material breach of INF Treaty by the 
              Russian Federation.
Sec. 1245. Review of RS-26 ballistic missile.
Sec. 1246. Definitions.

      Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Indo-Asia-Pacific Region

Sec. 1251. Sense of Congress and Initiative for the Indo-Asia-Pacific 
              region.
Sec. 1252. Report on strategy to prioritize United States defense 
              interests in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1253. Assessment of United States force posture and basing needs 
              in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1254. Plan to enhance the extended deterrence and assurance 
              capabilities of the United States in the Asia-Pacific 
              region.
Sec. 1255. Sense of Congress reaffirming security commitments to the 
              Governments of Japan and South Korea and trilateral 
              cooperation between the United States, Japan, and South 
              Korea.
Sec. 1256. Strategy on North Korea.
Sec. 1257. North Korean nuclear intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Sec. 1258. Advancements in defense cooperation between the United 
              States and India.
Sec. 1259. Strengthening the defense partnership between the United 
              States and Taiwan.
Sec. 1259A. Normalizing the transfer of defense articles and defense 
              services to Taiwan.
Sec. 1259B. Assessment on United States defense implications of China's 
              expanding global access.
Sec. 1259C. Agreement supplemental to Compact of Free Association with 
              Palau.
Sec. 1259D. Study on United States interests in the Freely Associated 
              States.

                          Subtitle G--Reports

Sec. 1261. Modification of annual report on military and security 
              developments involving the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1262. Modifications to annual update of Department of Defense 
              Freedom of Navigation Operations report.
Sec. 1263. Report on strategy to defeat Al-Qaeda, the Taliban, the 
              Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), and their 
              associated forces and co-belligerents.
Sec. 1264. Report on and notice of changes made to the legal and policy 
              frameworks for the United States' use of military force 
              and related national security operations.
Sec. 1265. Report on military action of Saudi Arabia and its coalition 
              partners in Yemen.
Sec. 1266. Submittal of Department of Defense Supplemental and Cost of 
              War Execution reports on quarterly basis.
Sec. 1267. Consolidation of reports on United States Armed Forces, 
              civilian employees, and contractors deployed in support 
              of Operation Inherent Resolve, Operation Freedom's 
              Sentinel, and associated and successor operations.
Sec. 1268. Comptroller General of the United States report on pricing 
              and availability with respect to foreign military sales.
Sec. 1269. Annual report on military and security developments 
              involving the Russian Federation.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 1271. Security and stability strategy for Somalia.
Sec. 1272. Global Theater Security Cooperation Management Information 
              System.
Sec. 1273. Future years plan for the European Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1274. Extension of authority to enter into agreements with 
              participating countries in the American, British, 
              Canadian, and Australian Armies' Program.
Sec. 1275. United States military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen.
Sec. 1276. Transfer of excess high mobility multipurpose wheeled 
              vehicles to foreign countries.
Sec. 1277. Department of Defense program to protect United States 
              students against foreign agents.
Sec. 1278. Limitation and extension of United States-Israel anti-tunnel 
              cooperation authority.
Sec. 1279. Anticorruption strategy.
Sec. 1279A. Strategy to improve defense institutions and security 
              sector forces in Nigeria.
Sec. 1279B. Limitation on availability of funds to implement the Arms 
              Trade Treaty.
Sec. 1279C. Cultural Heritage Protection Coordinator.
Sec. 1279D. Security assistance for Baltic nations for joint program 
              for interoperability and deterrence against aggression.
Sec. 1279E. Restriction on funding for the Preparatory Commission for 
              the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization.
Sec. 1279F. Clarification of authority to support border security 
              operations of certain foreign countries.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical agents and munitions destruction, defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug interdiction and counter-drug activities defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
Sec. 1406. National Defense Sealift Fund.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1411. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
              Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
              Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health 
              Care Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1412. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
              Home.
Sec. 1413. Armed Forces Retirement Home matters.
Sec. 1414. Authority to dispose of certain materials from and to 
              acquire additional materials for the National Defense 
              Stockpile.
Sec. 1415. Acquisition reporting on major chemical demilitarization 
              programs of the Department of Defense.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose and treatment of certain authorizations of 
              appropriations.
Sec. 1502. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1503. Procurement.
Sec. 1504. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1505. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1506. Military personnel.
Sec. 1507. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1508. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1509. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health program.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1511. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1512. Special transfer authority.

          Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1521. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1522. Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund.
Sec. 1523. Comptroller General report on feasibility of separation of 
              expenditures.
Sec. 1524. Guidelines for budget items to be covered by overseas 
              contingency operations accounts.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Space acquisition and management and oversight.
Sec. 1602. Codification, extension, and modification of limitation on 
              construction on United States territory of satellite 
              positioning ground monitoring stations of foreign 
              governments.

[[Page H8708]]

Sec. 1603. Foreign commercial satellite services: cybersecurity threats 
              and launches.
Sec. 1604. Extension of pilot program on commercial weather data.
Sec. 1605. Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle modernization and 
              sustainment of assured access to space.
Sec. 1606. Demonstration of backup and complementary positioning, 
              navigation, and timing capabilities of Global Positioning 
              System.
Sec. 1607. Enhancement of positioning, navigation, and timing capacity.
Sec. 1608. Commercial satellite communications pathfinder program.
Sec. 1609. Launch support and infrastructure modernization.
Sec. 1610. Limitation on availability of funding for Joint Space 
              Operations Center mission system.
Sec. 1611. Limitation on use of funds for Delta IV launch vehicle.
Sec. 1612. Air Force space contractor responsibility watch list.
Sec. 1613. Certification and briefing on operational and contingency 
              plans for loss or degradation of space capabilities.
Sec. 1614. Report on protected satellite communications.
Sec. 1615. Sense of Congress on establishment of Space Flag training 
              event.
Sec. 1616. Sense of Congress on coordinating efforts to prepare for 
              space weather events.
Sec. 1617. Sense of Congress on National Space Defense Center.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1621. Security clearances for facilities of certain companies.
Sec. 1622. Extension of authority to engage in certain commercial 
              activities.
Sec. 1623. Submission of audits of commercial activity funds.
Sec. 1624. Clarification of annual briefing on the intelligence, 
              surveillance, and reconnaissance requirements of the 
              combatant commands.
Sec. 1625. Consideration of service by recipients of Boren scholarships 
              and fellowships in excepted service positions as service 
              by such recipients under career appointments for purposes 
              of career tenure.
Sec. 1626. Review of support provided by Defense intelligence elements 
              to acquisition activities of the Department.
Sec. 1627. Establishment of Chairman's controlled activity within Joint 
              Staff for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.
Sec. 1628. Requirements relating to multi-use sensitive compartmented 
              information facilities.
Sec. 1629. Limitation on availability of funds for certain 
              counterintelligence activities.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

                     Part I--General Cyber Matters

Sec. 1631. Notification requirements for sensitive military cyber 
              operations and cyber weapons.
Sec. 1632. Modification to quarterly cyber operations briefings.
Sec. 1633. Policy of the United States on cyberspace, cybersecurity, 
              and cyber warfare.
Sec. 1634. Prohibition on use of products and services developed or 
              provided by Kaspersky Lab.
Sec. 1635. Modification of authorities relating to establishment of 
              unified combatant command for cyber operations.
Sec. 1636. Modification of definition of acquisition workforce to 
              include personnel contributing to cybersecurity systems.
Sec. 1637. Integration of strategic information operations and cyber-
              enabled information operations.
Sec. 1638. Exercise on assessing cybersecurity support to election 
              systems of States.
Sec. 1639. Measurement of compliance with cybersecurity requirements 
              for industrial control systems.
Sec. 1640. Strategic Cybersecurity Program.
Sec. 1641. Plan to increase cyber and information operations, 
              deterrence, and defense.
Sec. 1642. Evaluation of agile or iterative development of cyber tools 
              and applications.
Sec. 1643. Assessment of defense critical electric infrastructure.
Sec. 1644. Cyber posture review.
Sec. 1645. Briefing on cyber capability and readiness shortfalls.
Sec. 1646. Briefing on cyber applications of blockchain technology.
Sec. 1647. Briefing on training infrastructure for cyber mission 
              forces.
Sec. 1648. Report on termination of dual-hat arrangement for Commander 
              of the United States Cyber Command.

                    Part II--Cybersecurity Education

Sec. 1649. Cyber Scholarship Program.
Sec. 1649A. Community college cyber pilot program and assessment.
Sec. 1649B. Federal Cyber Scholarship-for-Service program updates.
Sec. 1649C. Cybersecurity teaching.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1651. Annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear command and 
              control system.
Sec. 1652. Collection, storage, and sharing of data relating to nuclear 
              security enterprise.
Sec. 1653. Notifications regarding dual-capable F-35A aircraft.
Sec. 1654. Oversight of delayed acquisition programs by Council on 
              Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, 
              and Communications System.
Sec. 1655. Establishment of Nuclear Command and Control Intelligence 
              Fusion Center.
Sec. 1656. Security of nuclear command, control, and communications 
              system from commercial dependencies.
Sec. 1657. Oversight of aerial-layer programs by Council on Oversight 
              of the National Leadership Command, Control, and 
              Communications System.
Sec. 1658. Security classification guide for programs relating to 
              nuclear command, control, and communications and nuclear 
              deterrence.
Sec. 1659. Evaluation and enhanced security of supply chain for nuclear 
              command, control, and communications and continuity of 
              government programs.
Sec. 1660. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
              ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1661. Presidential National Voice Conferencing System and Phoenix 
              Air-to-Ground Communications Network.
Sec. 1662. Limitation on pursuit of certain command and control 
              concept.
Sec. 1663. Prohibition on availability of funds for mobile variant of 
              ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
Sec. 1664. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic 
              missiles of the United States.
Sec. 1665. Modification to annual report on plan for the nuclear 
              weapons stockpile, nuclear weapons complex, nuclear 
              weapons delivery systems, and nuclear weapons command and 
              control system.
Sec. 1666. Establishment of procedures for implementation of Nuclear 
              Enterprise Review.
Sec. 1667. Report on impacts of nuclear proliferation.
Sec. 1668. Certification that the Nuclear Posture Review addresses 
              deterrent effect and operation of United States nuclear 
              forces in current and future security environments.
Sec. 1669. Plan to manage Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack 
              Assessment System and multi-domain sensors.
Sec. 1670. Certification requirement with respect to strategic 
              radiation hardened trusted microelectronics.
Sec. 1671. Nuclear Posture Review.
Sec. 1672. Sense of Congress on importance of independent nuclear 
              deterrent of United Kingdom.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1676. Administration of missile defense and defeat programs.
Sec. 1677. Condition for proceeding beyond low-rate initial production.
Sec. 1678. Preservation of the ballistic missile defense capacity of 
              the Army.
Sec. 1679. Modernization of Army lower tier air and missile defense 
              sensor.
Sec. 1680. Defense of Hawaii from North Korean ballistic missile 
              attack.
Sec. 1681. Designation of location of continental United States 
              interceptor site.
Sec. 1682. Aegis Ashore anti-air warfare capability.
Sec. 1683. Development of persistent space-based sensor architecture.
Sec. 1684. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
              Cooperative Missile Defense Program co-development and 
              co-production.
Sec. 1685. Boost phase ballistic missile defense.
Sec. 1686. Ground-based interceptor capability, capacity, and 
              reliability.
Sec. 1687. Limitation on availability of funds for ground-based 
              midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile 
              defense system.
Sec. 1688. Plan for development of space-based ballistic missile 
              intercept layer.
Sec. 1689. Sense of Congress on the state of the missile defense of the 
              United States.
Sec. 1690.  Sense of Congress and report on ground-based midcourse 
              defense testing.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1691. Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States From 
              Electromagnetic Pulse Attacks and Similar Events.
Sec. 1692. Protection of certain facilities and assets from unmanned 
              aircraft.
Sec. 1693. Conventional prompt global strike weapons system.
Sec. 1694. Business case analysis regarding ammonium perchlorate.
Sec. 1695. Report on industrial base for large solid rocket motors and 
              related technologies.
Sec. 1696. Pilot program on enhancing information sharing for security 
              of supply chain.
Sec. 1697. Pilot program on electromagnetic spectrum mapping.
Sec. 1698. Use of commercial items in Distributed Common Ground 
              Systems.

   TITLE XVII--SMALL BUSINESS PROCUREMENT AND INDUSTRIAL BASE MATTERS

Sec. 1701. Amendments to HUBZone provisions of the Small Business Act.

[[Page H8709]]

Sec. 1702. Uniformity in procurement terminology.
Sec. 1703. Improving reporting on small business goals.
Sec. 1704. Responsibilities of Business Opportunity Specialists.
Sec. 1705. Responsibilities of commercial market representatives.
Sec. 1706. Modification of past performance pilot program to include 
              consideration of past performance with allies of the 
              United States.
Sec. 1707. Notice of cost-free Federal procurement technical assistance 
              in connection with registration of small business 
              concerns on procurement websites of the Department of 
              Defense.
Sec. 1708. Inclusion of SBIR and STTR programs in technical assistance.
Sec. 1709. Requirements relating to competitive procedures and 
              justification for awards under the SBIR and STTR 
              programs.
Sec. 1710. Pilot program for streamlined technology transition from the 
              SBIR and STTR programs of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1711. Pilot program on strengthening manufacturing in the defense 
              industrial base.
Sec. 1712. Review regarding applicability of foreign ownership, 
              control, or influence requirements of National Industrial 
              Security Program to national technology and industrial 
              base companies.
Sec. 1713. Report on sourcing of tungsten and tungsten powders from 
              domestic producers.
Sec. 1714. Report on utilization of small business concerns for Federal 
              contracts.

           TITLE XVIII--GOVERNMENT PURCHASE AND TRAVEL CARDS

Sec. 1801. Short title.
Sec. 1802. Definitions.
Sec. 1803. Expanded use of data analytics.
Sec. 1804. Guidance on improving information sharing to curb improper 
              payments.
Sec. 1805. Interagency charge card data management group.
Sec. 1806. Reporting requirements.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
              specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2104. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2014 project.
Sec. 2106. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2015 project.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2014 
              project.
Sec. 2108. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.
Sec. 2109. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2000, 
              2005, 2006, and 2007 projects.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Extension of authorizations for certain fiscal year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2206. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
              projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2017 projects.
Sec. 2306. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy resiliency and conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2017 project.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
Sec. 2512. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2017 projects.

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
              projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
              construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2015 project.
Sec. 2612. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2613. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
              closure activities funded through Department of Defense 
              base closure account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
              closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing

Sec. 2801. Elimination of written notice requirement for military 
              construction activities and reliance on electronic 
              submission of notifications and reports.
Sec. 2802. Modification of thresholds applicable to unspecified minor 
              construction projects.
Sec. 2803. Annual locality adjustment of dollar thresholds applicable 
              to unspecified minor military construction authorities.
Sec. 2804. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
              and maintenance funds for construction projects outside 
              the United States.
Sec. 2805. Use of operation and maintenance funds for military 
              construction projects to replace facilities damaged or 
              destroyed by natural disasters or terrorism incidents.
Sec. 2806. Annual report on unfunded requirements for laboratory 
              military construction projects.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Elimination of written notice requirement for military real 
              property transactions and reliance on electronic 
              submission of notifications and reports.
Sec. 2812. Certification related to certain acquisitions or leases of 
              real property.
Sec. 2813. Increased term limit for intergovernmental support 
              agreements to provide installation support services.
Sec. 2814. Authorizing reimbursement of States for costs of suppressing 
              wildfires caused by Department of Defense activities on 
              State lands; restoration of lands of other Federal 
              agencies for damage caused by Department of Defense 
              vehicle mishaps.
Sec. 2815. Criteria for exchanges of property at military 
              installations.
Sec. 2816. Land exchange valuation of property with reduced development 
              that limits encroachment on military installations.
Sec. 2817. Requirements for window fall prevention devices in military 
              family housing.
Sec. 2818. Prohibiting use of updated assessment of public schools on 
              Department of Defense installations to supersede funding 
              of certain projects.
Sec. 2819. Access to military installations by transportation network 
              companies.

          Subtitle C--Project Management and Oversight Reforms

Sec. 2821. Notification requirement for certain cost increases.
Sec. 2822. Annual report on schedule delays.
Sec. 2823. Report on design errors and omissions related to Fort Bliss 
              hospital replacement project.
Sec. 2824. Report on cost increase and delay related to USSTRATCOM 
              command and control facility project at Offutt Air Force 
              Base.

                     Subtitle D--Energy Resilience

Sec. 2831. Energy resilience.
Sec. 2832. Authority to use energy cost savings for energy resilience, 
              mission assurance, and weather damage repair and 
              prevention measures.

[[Page H8710]]

Sec. 2833. Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in 
              awarding energy and fuel contracts for military 
              installations.
Sec. 2834. Requirement to address energy resilience in exercising 
              utility system conveyance authority.
Sec. 2835. In-kind lease payments; prioritization of utility services 
              that promote energy resilience.
Sec. 2836. Annual Department of Defense energy management reports.
Sec. 2837. Aggregation of energy efficiency and energy resilience 
              projects in life cycle cost analyses.

                      Subtitle E--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2841. Land exchange, Naval Industrial Reserve Ordnance Plant, 
              Sunnyvale, California.
Sec. 2842. Land conveyance, Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho.
Sec. 2843. Lease of real property to the United States Naval Academy 
              Alumni Association and Naval Academy Foundation at United 
              States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland.
Sec. 2844. Land Conveyance, Natick Soldier Systems Center, 
              Massachusetts.
Sec. 2845. Land exchange, Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, Texas.
Sec. 2846. Imposition of additional conditions on future use of Castner 
              Range, Fort Bliss, Texas.
Sec. 2847. Land conveyance, former missile alert facility known as 
              Quebec-01, Laramie County, Wyoming.

         Subtitle F--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

Sec. 2861. Recognition of the National Museum of World War II Aviation.
Sec. 2862. Principal office of Aviation Hall of Fame.
Sec. 2863. Establishment of a visitor services facility on the 
              Arlington Ridge tract.
Sec. 2864. Modification of prohibition on transfer of veterans memorial 
              objects to foreign governments without specific 
              authorization in law.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 2871. Authority of the Secretary of the Air Force to accept lessee 
              improvements at Air Force Plant 42.
Sec. 2872. Modification of Department of Defense guidance on use of 
              airfield pavement markings.
Sec. 2873. Authority of Chief Operating Officer of Armed Forces 
              Retirement Home to acquire and lease property.
Sec. 2874. Restrictions on rehabilitation of Over-the-Horizon 
              Backscatter Radar Station.
Sec. 2875. Permitting machine room-less elevators in Department of 
              Defense facilities.
Sec. 2876. Disclosure of beneficial ownership by foreign persons of 
              high security space leased by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 2877. Joint use of Dobbins Air Reserve Base, Marietta, Georgia, 
              with civil aviation.
Sec. 2878. Report on hurricane damage to Department of Defense assets.
Sec. 2879. Special rules for certain projects.
Sec. 2880. Energy security for military installations in Europe.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition project.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
              project.
Sec. 2904. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
              acquisition project.
Sec. 2905. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2906. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Nuclear security enterprise infrastructure modernization 
              initiative.
Sec. 3112. Incorporation of integrated surety architecture in 
              transportation.
Sec. 3113. Cost estimates for life extension program and major 
              alteration projects.
Sec. 3114. Improved information relating to certain defense nuclear 
              nonproliferation programs.
Sec. 3115. Research and development of advanced naval reactor fuel 
              based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3116. National Nuclear Security Administration pay and performance 
              system.
Sec. 3117. Budget requests and certification regarding nuclear weapons 
              dismantlement.
Sec. 3118. Nuclear warhead design competition.
Sec. 3119. Modification of minor construction threshold for plant 
              projects.
Sec. 3120. Extension of authorization of Advisory Board on Toxic 
              Substances and Worker Health.
Sec. 3121. Use of funds for construction and project support activities 
              relating to MOX facility.
Sec. 3122. Prohibition on availability of funds for programs in Russian 
              Federation.

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Annual Selected Acquisition Reports on certain hardware 
              relating to defense nuclear nonproliferation.
Sec. 3132. Annual reports on unfunded priorities of National Nuclear 
              Security Administration.
Sec. 3133. Modification of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 3134. Modification to stockpile stewardship, management, and 
              responsiveness plan.
Sec. 3135. Assessment and development of prototype nuclear weapons of 
              foreign countries.
Sec. 3136. Plan for verification, detection, and monitoring of nuclear 
              weapons and fissile material.
Sec. 3137. Review of United States nuclear and radiological terrorism 
              prevention strategy.
Sec. 3138. Assessment of management and operating contracts of national 
              security laboratories.
Sec. 3139. Evaluation of classification of certain defense nuclear 
              waste.
Sec. 3140. Improved reporting for anti-smuggling radiation detection 
              systems.
Sec. 3141. Plutonium capabilities.
Sec. 3142. Report on critical decision 1 on Material Staging Facility 
              project.
Sec. 3143. Plan to further minimize the use of highly enriched uranium 
              for medical isotopes.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 3151. Sense of Congress regarding compensation of individuals 
              relating to uranium mining and nuclear testing.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.

                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.

                      TITLE XXXV--MARITIME MATTERS

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946.
Sec. 3503. Maritime Security Fleet Program; restriction on operation 
              for new entrants.
Sec. 3504. Codification of sections relating to acquisition, charter, 
              and requisition of vessels.
Sec. 3505. Assistance for small shipyards.
Sec. 3506. Report on sexual assault victim recovery in the Coast Guard.
Sec. 3507. Centers of excellence.
Sec. 3508. Foreign spill protection.
Sec. 3509. Removal of adjunct professor limit at United States Merchant 
              Marine Academy.
Sec. 3510. Acceptance of guarantees in conjunction with partial 
              donations for major projects of the United States 
              Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3511. Authority to pay conveyance or transfer expenses in 
              connection with acceptance of a gift to the United States 
              Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3512. Authority to participate in Federal, State or other research 
              grants.
Sec. 3513. Provision of satellite communication devices during Sea Year 
              program.
Sec. 3514. Actions to address sexual harassment, dating violence, 
              domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking at the 
              United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3515. Sexual assault prevention and response staff for the United 
              States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3516. Protection of cadets at the United States Merchant Marine 
              Academy from sexual assault onboard commercial vessels.
Sec. 3517. Training requirement for sexual assault investigators.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.

        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
              contingency operations.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
              operations.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.

                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.

[[Page H8711]]

                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.

     SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.

       In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' 
     has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of 
     title 10, United States Code.

     SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

       The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of 
     complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall 
     be determined by reference to the latest statement titled 
     ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, 
     jointly submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by 
     the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees, 
     provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the 
     vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference 
     report or amendment between the Houses.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Authority to expedite procurement of 7.62mm rifles.
Sec. 112. Limitation on availability of funds for Increment 2 of the 
              Warfighter Information Network-Tactical program.
Sec. 113. Limitation on availability of funds for upgrade of M113 
              vehicles.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Aircraft carriers.
Sec. 122. Icebreaker vessel.
Sec. 123. Multiyear procurement authority for Arleigh Burke class 
              destroyers.
Sec. 124. Multiyear procurement authority for Virginia class submarine 
              program.
Sec. 125. Design and construction of the lead ship of the amphibious 
              ship replacement designated LX(R) or amphibious transport 
              dock designated LPD-30.
Sec. 126. Multiyear procurement authority for V-22 Osprey aircraft.
Sec. 127. Extension of limitation on use of sole-source shipbuilding 
              contracts for certain vessels.
Sec. 128. Limitation on availability of funds for the enhanced multi-
              mission parachute system.
Sec. 129. Report on Navy capacity to increase production of certain 
              rotary wing aircraft.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 131. Inventory requirement for Air Force fighter aircraft.
Sec. 132. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of E-8 
              JSTARS aircraft.
Sec. 133. Requirement for continuation of JSTARS aircraft 
              recapitalization program.
Sec. 134. Limitation on selection of single contractor for C-130H 
              avionics modernization program increment 2.
Sec. 135. Limitation on availability of funds for EC-130H Compass Call 
              recapitalization program.
Sec. 136. Limitation on retirement of U-2 and RQ-4 aircraft.
Sec. 137. Cost-benefit analysis of upgrades to MQ-9 Reaper aircraft.
Sec. 138. Plan for modernization of the radar for F-16 fighter aircraft 
              of the National Guard.
Sec. 139. Comptroller General review of Air Force fielding plan for HH-
              60 replacement programs.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 141. F-35 economic order quantity contracting authority.
Sec. 142. Authority for explosive ordnance disposal units to acquire 
              new or emerging technologies and capabilities.
Sec. 143.  Requirement that certain aircraft and unmanned aerial 
              vehicles use specified standard data link.
Sec. 144. Reinstatement of requirement to preserve certain C-5 
              aircraft; mobility capability and requirements study.

              Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

     SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the 
     Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

     SEC. 111. AUTHORITY TO EXPEDITE PROCUREMENT OF 7.62MM RIFLES.

       (a) 7.62mm Rifles.--
       (1) Procurement authority.--The Secretary of the Army is 
     authorized to expedite the procurement of a commercially 
     available off-the-shelf item or nondevelopmental item for a 
     7.62mm rifle capability in accordance with this section.
       (2) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Army may use the 
     authority under paragraph (1) to procure only the following:
       (A) Not more than 7,000 7.62mm rifles.
       (B) Equipment and ammunition associated with such rifles.
       (3) Contracting procedures.--
       (A) Full and open competition.--In awarding contracts under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Army shall use full and 
     open competition to the extent practicable.
       (B) Procedures other than full and open competition.--The 
     Secretary of the Army may not award a contract under 
     paragraph (1) using procedures other than full and open 
     competition until a period of 10 days has elapsed following 
     the date on which the Secretary submits to the congressional 
     committees the report described in subparagraph (C).
       (C) Report.--The report described in this subparagraph is a 
     report of the Secretary of the Army that includes--
       (i) a detailed justification for limiting full and open 
     competition for the procurement authorized under paragraph 
     (1);
       (ii) a description of the objectives, costs, and timelines 
     associated with the procurement; and
       (iii) an assessment of the projected impact of the 
     procurement on any related programs in terms of cost, 
     schedule, and the use of full and open competition in such 
     programs.
       (b) Related Programs.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army is authorized to 
     use funds made available to carry out subsection (a)--
       (A) to accelerate by two years the squad designated 
     marksman rifle program of the Army;
       (B) to accelerate by two years the advanced armor piercing 
     ammunition program of the Army; and
       (C) subject to paragraph (2), to accelerate the next 
     generation squad weapon program of the Army.
       (2) Full and open competition.--Any contract awarded under 
     the next generation squad weapon program of the Army shall be 
     awarded using full and open competition.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``commercially 
     available off-the-shelf item'', ``full and open 
     competition'', and ``nondevelopmental item'' have the 
     meanings given the terms in chapter 1 of title 41, United 
     States Code.

     SEC. 112. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR INCREMENT 2 
                   OF THE WARFIGHTER INFORMATION NETWORK-TACTICAL 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of 
     Defense for fiscal year 2018 for Increment 2 of the 
     Warfighter Information Network-Tactical program of the Army 
     (referred to in this section as ``WIN-T Increment 2'') not 
     more than 50 percent may be used to enter into, or to prepare 
     to enter into, a contract for the procurement of equipment 
     under the program until the date on which the Secretary of 
     the Army submits the report under subsection (b).
       (b) Report.--Not later than January 31, 2018, the Secretary 
     of the Army, in consultation with the Chief of Staff of the 
     Army, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     report on the strategy of the Army for modernizing air-land 
     ad-hoc, mobile tactical communications and data networks.
       (c) Elements.--The report under subsection (b) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) A description of the strategy of the Army for 
     modernizing air-land ad-hoc, mobile tactical communications 
     and data networks.
       (2) The justification, rationale, and decision points for 
     the strategy, including how network requirements are being 
     redefined.
       (3) How the Army intends to implement the recommendations 
     accepted by the Secretary of the Army related to air-land ad-
     hoc, mobile tactical communications and data networks 
     provided by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation pursuant to section 237 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 781).
       (4) How the Army will address the vulnerabilities 
     identified by the report of the Director of Cost Assessment 
     and Program Evaluation on the mobile, ad-hoc network against 
     a modern peer adversary capable of cyber and electronic 
     warfare detection and intrusion.
       (5) A timeline and decision points for upgrading fielded 
     WIN-T Increment 1B systems.
       (6) A list of planned upgrades for components of WIN-T 
     Increment 2 designed to improve program capabilities, 
     including size, weight, and complexity, including the impact 
     of these improvements on the cost of the program, as well as 
     fielding schedules for Army Brigade Combat Teams.
       (7) How the strategy will reduce Army reliance on satellite 
     communications, including procurement and test strategies for 
     more resilient and secure mid-tier line of sight capability.
       (8) How the strategy will address identified joint 
     interoperability capability gaps, specifically for units 
     known as ``fight tonight'' units, including procurement and 
     test plans for identified solutions.
       (9) Decision points associated with the near term 
     modernization strategy for mitigating operational capability 
     gaps for such ``fight tonight'' units.
       (10) The decision points and timelines associated with the 
     fielding of modernized mobile tactical network communications 
     to the reserve components of the Army.
       (11) The planned funding and program realignments required 
     for fiscal year 2018 and across the future years defense 
     program that will be required to support the new strategy.
       (12) Identification of the changes in acquisition policy as 
     well as operational requirements being implemented to deliver 
     an effective, suitable, and survivable network to the 
     warfighter.
       (13) Identification of the changes in leadership and 
     governance that will be associated with the new strategy.
       (d) Form of Report.--The report required by section (b) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 113. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR UPGRADE OF 
                   M113 VEHICLES.

       (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made

[[Page H8712]]

     available for fiscal year 2018 for the upgrade of M113 
     vehicles of the Army, not more than 50 percent may be 
     obligated or expended until the date on which Secretary of 
     the Army submits to the congressional defense committees the 
     report described in subsection (b).
       (b) Report.--The report described in this subsection is a 
     report setting forth the strategy of the Army for the upgrade 
     of M113 vehicles that includes the following:
       (1) A detailed strategy for upgrading and fielding M113 
     vehicles.
       (2) An analysis of the manner in which the Army plans to 
     address M113 vehicle survivability and maneuverability 
     concerns.
       (3) An analysis of the historical costs associated with 
     upgrading M113 vehicles, and a validation of current cost 
     estimates for upgrading such vehicles.
       (4) A comparison of--
       (A) the total procurement and life cycle costs of adding an 
     echelon above brigade requirement to the Army Multi-Purpose 
     Vehicle; and
       (B) the total procurement and life cycle costs of upgrading 
     legacy M113 vehicles.
       (5) An analysis of the possibility of further accelerating 
     Army Multi-Purpose Vehicle production or modifying the 
     fielding strategy for the Army Multi-Purpose Vehicle to meet 
     near-term echelon above brigade requirements.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

     SEC. 121. AIRCRAFT CARRIERS.

       (a) Modification of Cost Limitation Baseline for CVN-78 
     Class Aircraft Carrier Program.--Section 122 of the John 
     Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2105), as most recently 
     amended by section 122 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 749), 
     is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (2) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(2) Carrier designated as cvn-79.--The total amount 
     obligated from funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, or for any other 
     procurement account, for the aircraft carrier designated as 
     CVN-79 may not exceed $11,398,000,000 (as adjusted pursuant 
     to subsection (b)).
       ``(3) Follow-on ships.--The total amount obligated from 
     funds appropriated or otherwise made available for 
     Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, or for any other 
     procurement account, for any ship that is constructed in the 
     CVN-78 class of aircraft carriers after the aircraft carrier 
     designated as CVN-79 may not exceed $12,568,000,000 (as 
     adjusted pursuant to subsection (b)).'';
       (2) in subsection (b), by amending paragraph (1) to read as 
     follows:
       ``(1) The amounts of increases or decreases in costs 
     attributable to economic inflation--
       ``(A) after September 30, 2013, in the case of the aircraft 
     carrier designated as CVN-79; and
       ``(B) after September 30, 2017, in the case of any ship 
     that is constructed in the CVN-78 class of aircraft carriers 
     after the aircraft carrier designated as CVN-79.''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(g) Exclusion of Battle and Interim Spares From Cost 
     Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy shall exclude from the 
     determination of the amounts set forth in paragraphs (2) and 
     (3) of subsection (a), the costs of the following items:
       ``(1) CVN-78 class battle spares.
       ``(2) Interim spares.''.
       (b) Waiver on Limitation of Availability of Funds for CVN-
     79.--The Secretary of Defense may waive subsections (a) and 
     (b) of section 128 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 751) after 
     a period of 60 days has elapsed following the date on which 
     the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees 
     a written notification of the intent of the Secretary to 
     issue such a waiver. The Secretary shall include in any such 
     notification the following:
       (1) The rationale of the Secretary for issuing the waiver.
       (2) The revised test and evaluation master plan that 
     describes when full ship shock trials will be held on Ford-
     class aircraft carriers.
       (3) A certification that the Secretary has analyzed and 
     accepted the operational risk of the U.S.S. Gerald R. Ford 
     deploying without having conducted full ship shock trials, 
     and that the Secretary has not delegated the decision to 
     issue such waiver.

     SEC. 122. ICEBREAKER VESSEL.

       (a) Authority to Procure One Polar-class Heavy 
     Icebreaker.--
       (1) In general.--There is authorized to be procured for the 
     Coast Guard one polar-class heavy icebreaker vessel.
       (2) Condition for out-year contract payments.--A contract 
     entered into under paragraph (1) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations or funds for that 
     purpose for such later fiscal year.
       (b) Limitation on Availability of Funds for Procurement of 
     Icebreaker Vessels.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the 
     Department of Defense for any fiscal year that are 
     unobligated as of the date of the enactment of this Act may 
     be obligated or expended for the procurement of an icebreaker 
     vessel other than the one polar-class heavy icebreaker vessel 
     authorized to be procured under subsection (a)(1).
       (c) Contracting Authority.--
       (1) Coast guard.--If funds are appropriated to the 
     department in which the Coast Guard is operating to carry out 
     subsection (a)(1), the head of contracting activity for the 
     Coast Guard shall be responsible for contracting actions 
     carried out using such funds.
       (2) Navy.--If funds are appropriated to the Department of 
     Defense to carry out subsection (a)(1), the head of 
     contracting activity for the Navy, Naval Sea Systems Command 
     shall be responsible for contracting actions carried out 
     using such funds.
       (3) Interagency acquisition.--Notwithstanding paragraphs 
     (1) and (2), the head of contracting activity for the Coast 
     Guard or head of contracting activity for the Navy, Naval Sea 
     Systems Command (as the case may be) may authorize 
     interagency acquisitions that are within the authority of 
     such head of contracting activity.
       (d) Comptroller General Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees, the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
     Representatives a report assessing the cost of, and schedule 
     for, the procurement of new icebreaker vessels for the 
     Federal Government.
       (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
     an analysis of the following:
       (A) The status of the efforts of the Coast Guard to acquire 
     new icebreaking capability, including an explanation of how 
     such efforts are coordinated through the integrated program 
     office.
       (B) Actions taken by the Coast Guard to incorporate key 
     practices of other countries with respect to the procurement 
     of icebreaker vessels to increase the Coast Guard's knowledge 
     of, and to reduce the costs and risks of, procuring such 
     vessels.
       (C) The extent to which the cost and schedule for the 
     construction of Coast Guard icebreakers differs from such 
     cost and schedule in other countries.
       (D) The extent to which innovative acquisition practices 
     (such as multiyear funding and block buys) may be applied to 
     the procurement of icebreaker vessels to reduce the costs and 
     accelerate the schedule of such procurement.
       (E) A capacity replacement plan to mitigate a potential 
     icebreaker capability gap if the Polar Star cannot remain in 
     service.
       (F) Any other matters the Comptroller General considers 
     appropriate.

     SEC. 123. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR ARLEIGH BURKE 
                   CLASS DESTROYERS.

       (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to 
     section 2306b of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary 
     of the Navy may enter into one or more multiyear contracts 
     for the procurement of up to 15 Arleigh Burke class Flight 
     III guided missile destroyers.
       (b) Authority for Advance Procurement.--The Secretary of 
     the Navy may enter into one or more contracts, beginning in 
     fiscal year 2018, for advance procurement associated with the 
     destroyers for which authorization to enter into a multiyear 
     procurement contract is provided under subsection (a), and 
     for systems and subsystems associated with such destroyers in 
     economic order quantities when cost savings are achievable.
       (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract 
     entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations or funds for that 
     purpose for such later fiscal year.
       (d) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy may not modify a 
     contract entered into under subsection (a) if the 
     modification would increase the target price of the destroyer 
     by more than 10 percent above the target price specified in 
     the original contract awarded for the destroyer under 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 124. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR VIRGINIA CLASS 
                   SUBMARINE PROGRAM.

       (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to 
     section 2306b of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary 
     of the Navy may enter into one or more multiyear contracts 
     for the procurement of not more than 13 Virginia class 
     submarines.
       (b) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy may not modify a 
     contract entered into under subsection (a) if the 
     modification would increase the target price of the submarine 
     by more than 10 percent above the target price specified in 
     the original contract awarded for the submarine under 
     subsection (a).
       (c) Authority for Advance Procurement.--The Secretary of 
     the Navy may enter into one or more contracts, beginning in 
     fiscal year 2018, for advance procurement associated with the 
     Virginia class submarines for which authorization to enter 
     into a multiyear procurement contract is provided under 
     subsection (a) and for equipment or subsystems associated 
     with the Virginia class submarine program, including 
     procurement of--
       (1) long lead time material; or
       (2) material or equipment in economic order quantities when 
     cost savings are achievable.
       (d) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract 
     entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2019 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations or funds for that 
     purpose for such later fiscal year.
       (e) Limitation on Termination Liability.--A contract for 
     the construction of Virginia class submarines entered into 
     under subsection (a) shall include a clause that limits the 
     liability of the United States to the contractor for any 
     termination of the contract. The maximum liability of the 
     United States under the clause shall be the amount 
     appropriated for the submarines covered by the contract 
     regardless of the amount obligated under the contract.

[[Page H8713]]

       (f) Virginia Class Submarine Defined.--The term ``Virginia 
     class submarine'' means a block V configured Virginia class 
     submarine.

     SEC. 125. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE LEAD SHIP OF THE 
                   AMPHIBIOUS SHIP REPLACEMENT DESIGNATED LX(R) OR 
                   AMPHIBIOUS TRANSPORT DOCK DESIGNATED LPD-30.

       (a) In General.--Using funds authorized to be appropriated 
     for the Department of Defense for Shipbuilding and 
     Conversion, Navy, the Secretary of the Navy may enter into a 
     contract, beginning with the fiscal year 2018 program year, 
     for the design and construction of--
       (1) the lead ship of the amphibious ship replacement class 
     designated LX(R); or
       (2) the amphibious transport dock designated LPD-30.
       (b) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to the 
     contract entered into under subsection (a), the Secretary may 
     use incremental funding to make payments under the contract.
       (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--The contract 
     entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under such 
     contract for any fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is 
     subject to the availability of appropriations for that 
     purpose for such later fiscal year.

     SEC. 126. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR V-22 OSPREY 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to 
     section 2306b of title 10, United States Code (except as 
     provided in subsection (b)), the Secretary of the Navy may 
     enter into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with 
     the 2018 program year, for the procurement of the following:
       (1) V-22 Osprey aircraft.
       (2) Common configuration-readiness and modernization 
     upgrades for V-22 Osprey aircraft.
       (b) Contract Period.--Notwithstanding section 2306b(k) of 
     title 10, United States Code, the period covered by a 
     contract entered into on a multiyear basis under the 
     authority of subsection (a) may exceed five years, but may 
     not exceed seven years.
       (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract 
     entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations or funds for that 
     purpose for such later fiscal year.

     SEC. 127. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON USE OF SOLE-SOURCE 
                   SHIPBUILDING CONTRACTS FOR CERTAIN VESSELS.

       Section 124 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended by striking 
     ``2017'' and inserting ``2017 or fiscal year 2018''.

     SEC. 128. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE 
                   ENHANCED MULTI-MISSION PARACHUTE SYSTEM.

       (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of 
     Defense for fiscal year 2018 for the enhanced multi-mission 
     parachute system, not more than 80 percent may be used to 
     enter into, or to prepare to enter into, a contract for the 
     procurement of such parachute system until the date on which 
     the Secretary of the Navy submits to the congressional 
     defense committees the certification under subsection (b) and 
     the report under subsection (c).
       (b) Certification.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     certification that states--
       (1) whether the multi-mission parachute system fielded by 
     the Marine Corps meets Marine Corps requirements;
       (2) whether the RA-1 parachute system of the Army meets 
     Marine Corps requirements;
       (3) whether the PARIS, Special Application Parachute of the 
     Marine Corps meets Marine Corps requirements;
       (4) whether the testing plan for the enhanced multi-mission 
     parachute system meets all applicable regulatory 
     requirements; and
       (5) whether the Department of the Navy has determined that 
     a high glide canopy parachute system is as safe and effective 
     as the fielded free fall parachute systems.
       (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report that 
     includes--
       (1) an explanation for using the Parachute Industry 
     Association specification for a military parachute given that 
     sports parachutes are deployed from relatively slow flying 
     civilian aircraft at altitudes below 10,000 feet;
       (2) a cost estimate for any new equipment and training that 
     the Marine Corps will require in order to use a high glide 
     parachute;
       (3) justification for why the Department of the Navy is not 
     conducting any testing of parachutes until first article 
     testing; and
       (4) an assessment of the risks associated with high glide 
     canopy parachutes with a focus on how the Department of the 
     Navy will mitigate the risk of malfunctions experienced in 
     other high glide canopy parachute programs.

     SEC. 129. REPORT ON NAVY CAPACITY TO INCREASE PRODUCTION OF 
                   CERTAIN ROTARY WING AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Report.--Not later than March 30, 2018, the Secretary 
     of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report that describes and assesses the capacity 
     of the Navy to increase production of the aircraft described 
     in subsection (b), taking into account an increase in the 
     size of the surface fleet of the Navy to 355 ships.
       (b) Aircraft Described.--The aircraft described in this 
     subsection are the following:
       (1) Anti-submarine warfare rotary wing aircraft.
       (2) Search and rescue rotary wing aircraft.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

     SEC. 131. INVENTORY REQUIREMENT FOR AIR FORCE FIGHTER 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Inventory Requirement.--Section 8062 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(i)(1) During the period beginning on October 1, 2017, 
     and ending on October 1, 2022, the Secretary of the Air Force 
     shall maintain a total aircraft inventory of fighter aircraft 
     of not less than 1,970 aircraft, and a total primary mission 
     aircraft inventory (combat-coded) of not less than 1,145 
     fighter aircraft.
       ``(2) In this subsection:
       ``(A) The term `fighter aircraft' means an aircraft that--
       ``(i) is designated by a mission design series prefix of F- 
     or A-;
       ``(ii) is manned by one or two crewmembers; and
       ``(iii) executes single-role or multi-role missions, 
     including air-to-air combat, air-to-ground attack, air 
     interdiction, suppression or destruction of enemy air 
     defenses, close air support, strike control and 
     reconnaissance, combat search and rescue support, or airborne 
     forward air control.
       ``(B) The term `primary mission aircraft inventory' means 
     aircraft assigned to meet the primary aircraft authorization 
     to a unit for the performance of its wartime mission.''.
       (b) Limitation on Retirement of Air Force Fighter 
     Aircraft.--
       (1) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (c), 
     during the period beginning on October 1, 2017, and ending on 
     October 1, 2022, the Secretary of the Air Force may not 
     proceed with a decision to retire fighter aircraft in any 
     number that would reduce the total number of such aircraft in 
     the Air Force total active inventory below 1,970, and shall 
     maintain a minimum of 1,145 fighter aircraft designated as 
     primary mission aircraft inventory.
       (2) Additional limitations on retirement of fighter 
     aircraft.--Except as provided in subsection (c), during the 
     period beginning on October 1, 2017, and ending on October 1, 
     2022, the Secretary of the Air Force may not retire fighter 
     aircraft from the total active inventory as of the date of 
     the enactment of this Act until the later of the following:
       (A) The date that is 30 days after the date on which the 
     Secretary submits the report required under paragraph (3).
       (B) The date that is 30 days after the date on which the 
     Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees 
     that--
       (i) the retirement of such fighter aircraft will not 
     increase the operational risk of meeting the National Defense 
     Strategy; and
       (ii) the retirement of such aircraft will not reduce the 
     total fighter force structure below 1,970 fighter aircraft or 
     the primary mission aircraft inventory below 1,145.
       (3) Report on retirement of aircraft.--The Secretary of the 
     Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report setting forth the following:
       (A) The rationale for the retirement of existing fighter 
     aircraft and an operational analysis of the portfolio of 
     capabilities of the Air Force that demonstrates performance 
     of the designated mission at an equal or greater level of 
     effectiveness as the retiring aircraft.
       (B) An assessment of the implications for the Air Force, 
     the Air National Guard, and the Air Force Reserve of the 
     force mix ratio of fighter aircraft.
       (C) Such other matters relating to the retirement of 
     fighter aircraft as the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (c) Exception for Certain Aircraft.--The requirement of 
     subsection (b) does not apply to individual fighter aircraft 
     that the Secretary of the Air Force determines, on a case-by-
     case basis, to be non-operational because of mishaps, other 
     damage, or being uneconomical to repair.
       (d) Fighter Aircraft Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``fighter aircraft'' has the meaning given the term in 
     subsection (i)(2)(A) of section 8062 of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section.

     SEC. 132. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT 
                   OF E-8 JSTARS AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Retirement.--
     Except as provided by subsection (b), none of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for the Air Force may be 
     obligated or expended to retire, or prepare to retire, any E-
     8 Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System aircraft.
       (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not 
     apply to individual E-8 Joint Surveillance Target Attack 
     Radar System aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force 
     determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be non-operational 
     because of mishaps, other damage, or being uneconomical to 
     repair.

     SEC. 133. REQUIREMENT FOR CONTINUATION OF JSTARS AIRCRAFT 
                   RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--If the budget request submitted to 
     Congress for any fiscal year includes a request by the 
     Secretary of the Air Force to cancel or modify the JSTARS 
     aircraft recapitalization program, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit, as part of such budget request, the report 
     described in subsection (b).
       (b) Report.--The report described in this subsection, is a 
     report that includes the following:
       (1) The assumptions, rationale, and all analysis supporting 
     the proposed cancellation or modification of the JSTARS 
     aircraft recapitalization program.
       (2) An assessment of the implications of such cancellation 
     or modification for meeting the mission requirements for air 
     battle management and moving target indicator intelligence 
     discipline of the Air Force, the Air National Guard, the 
     Army, the Army National Guard, the Navy and Marine Corps, and 
     the combatant commands.

[[Page H8714]]

       (3) A certification that the plan for the cancellation or 
     modification of the recapitalization program would not result 
     in an increased time during which there is a capability or 
     capacity gap in providing battlefield management, command and 
     control and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
     capabilities to the combatant commanders.
       (4) Such other matters relating to the proposed 
     cancellation or modification as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (c) Form of Report.--The report under subsection (b) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``budget request'' means the budget materials 
     submitted by the Secretary of Defense in support of the 
     budget of the President for a fiscal year (submitted to 
     Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States 
     Code).
       (2) The term ``JSTARS aircraft recapitalization program'' 
     means the recapitalization program for the E-8C Joint 
     Surveillance Target Attack Radar System aircraft as such 
     program is proposed to be carried out in the budget request 
     submitted to Congress for fiscal year 2018.

     SEC. 134. LIMITATION ON SELECTION OF SINGLE CONTRACTOR FOR C-
                   130H AVIONICS MODERNIZATION PROGRAM INCREMENT 
                   2.

       (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not 
     select only a single prime contractor to carry out increment 
     2 of the C-130H avionics modernization program until the 
     Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a 
     written certification that, in selecting such a single prime 
     contractor--
       (1) the Secretary will ensure, to the extent practicable, 
     that commercially available off-the-shelf items are used 
     under the program, including technology solutions and 
     nondevelopmental items; and
       (2) excessively restrictive military specification 
     standards will not be used to restrict or eliminate full and 
     open competition in the selection process.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``commercially 
     available off-the-shelf item'', ``full and open 
     competition'', and ``nondevelopmental item'' have the 
     meanings given the terms in chapter 1 of title 41, United 
     States Code.

     SEC. 135. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR EC-130H 
                   COMPASS CALL RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for any 
     fiscal year for the EC-130H Compass Call recapitalization 
     program of the Air Force may be obligated until a period of 
     30 days has elapsed following the date on which the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics submits to the congressional defense committees the 
     certification described in subsection (b).
       (b) Certification.--The certification described in this 
     subsection is a written statement certifying that--
       (1) an independent review of the acquisition process for 
     the EC-130H Compass Call recapitalization program of the Air 
     Force has been conducted; and
       (2) as a result of such review, it has been determined that 
     the acquisition process for such program complies with all 
     applicable laws, guidelines, and best practices.

     SEC. 136. LIMITATION ON RETIREMENT OF U-2 AND RQ-4 AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Air Force may take no 
     action that would prevent the Air Force from maintaining the 
     fleets of U-2 aircraft or RQ-4 aircraft in their current, or 
     improved, configurations and capabilities until--
       (1) the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
     Technology, and Logistics certifies in writing to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress that--
       (A) in the case of the RQ-4 aircraft, the validated 
     operating and sustainment costs of the capability developed 
     to replace the RQ-4 aircraft are less than the validated 
     operating and sustainment costs for the RQ-4 aircraft on a 
     comparable flight-hour cost basis; or
       (B) in the case of the U-2 aircraft, the validated 
     operating and sustainment costs of the capability developed 
     to replace the U-2 aircraft are less than the validated 
     operating and sustainment costs for the U-2 aircraft on a 
     comparable flight-hour cost basis; and
       (2) the Chairman of the Joint Requirements Oversight 
     Council certifies in writing to the appropriate committees of 
     Congress that the capability to be fielded at the same time 
     or before the retirement of the U-2 aircraft or RQ-4 aircraft 
     (as the case may be) would result in equal or greater 
     capability available to the commanders of the combatant 
     commands and would not result in less capacity available to 
     the commanders of the combatant commands.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
     certification requirement under subsection (a)(1) with 
     respect to U-2 aircraft or RQ-4 aircraft if the Secretary--
       (1) determines, after analyzing sufficient and relevant 
     data, that a greater capability is worth increased operating 
     and sustainment costs; and
       (2) provides to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     certification of such determination and supporting analysis.
       (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
       (d) Repeal.--Section 133 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 
     125 Stat. 1321) is repealed.

     SEC. 137. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF UPGRADES TO MQ-9 REAPER 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of the Air Force, shall conduct an 
     analysis that compares the costs and benefits of the 
     following:
       (1) Upgrading fielded MQ-9 Reaper aircraft to a Block 5 
     configuration.
       (2) Proceeding with the procurement of MQ-9B aircraft 
     instead of upgrading fielded MQ-9 Reaper aircraft to a Block 
     5 configuration.
       (b) Report Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
     includes the results of the cost-benefit analysis conducted 
     under subsection (a).
       (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 138. PLAN FOR MODERNIZATION OF THE RADAR FOR F-16 
                   FIGHTER AIRCRAFT OF THE NATIONAL GUARD.

       (a) Modernization Plan Required.--The Secretary of the Air 
     Force shall develop a plan to modernize the radars of F-16 
     fighter aircraft of the National Guard by replacing legacy 
     mechanically-scanned radars for such aircraft with active 
     electronically scanned array radars.
       (b) Report.--Not later 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees the plan 
     developed under subsection (a).

     SEC. 139. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF AIR FORCE FIELDING 
                   PLAN FOR HH-60 REPLACEMENT PROGRAMS.

       (a) Comptroller General Review.--The Comptroller General of 
     the United States shall conduct a review of the Air Force 
     fielding plan for the HH-60 replacement programs.
       (b) Elements.--The review conducted under subsection (a) 
     shall include, with respect to the HH-60 replacement 
     programs, the following:
       (1) A description of the recommendations of the National 
     Commission on the Structure of the Air Force regarding the 
     use of concurrent and proportional fielding and how the Air 
     Force applied the recommendations in the fielding plan for 
     the HH-60G replacement programs.
       (2) An evaluation of the fielding plan, including an 
     assessment of the Air Force rationale for the plan, as well 
     as the alternative fielding plans considered by the Air 
     Force.
       (3) An evaluation of the potential readiness impact of the 
     fielding plan on active duty, National Guard, and Reserve 
     units, including the impact of the plan on the ability of 
     such units to meet training, maintenance, and deployment 
     requirements, as well as the implications for total force 
     integration initiatives should the fielding not be 
     proportional.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Comptroller General shall provide a briefing to the 
     congressional defense committees on the review conducted 
     under subsection (a).
       (d) Final Report.--Not later than June 30, 2018, the 
     Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional 
     committees a report that includes the results of the review 
     conducted under subsection (a).
       (e) HH-60G Replacement Programs Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``HH-60G replacement programs'' means the HH-60G Ops 
     Loss Replacement program and the HH-60W Combat Rescue 
     Helicopter program.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

     SEC. 141. F-35 ECONOMIC ORDER QUANTITY CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.

       (a) In General.--Subject to subsections (b) through (e), 
     from amounts made available for obligation under the F-35 
     aircraft program, the Secretary of Defense may enter into one 
     or more contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2018 
     program year, for the procurement of economic order 
     quantities of material and equipment that has completed 
     formal hardware qualification testing for the F-35 aircraft 
     program for use in procurement contracts to be awarded for 
     such program during fiscal years 2019 and 2020.
       (b) Limitation.--The total amount obligated under all 
     contracts entered into under subsection (a) shall not exceed 
     $661,000,000.
       (c) Preliminary Findings.--Before entering into a contract 
     under subsection (a), the Secretary shall make each of the 
     following findings with respect to such contract:
       (1) The use of such a contract will result in significant 
     savings of the total anticipated costs of carrying out the 
     program through annual contracts.
       (2) The minimum need for the property to be procured is 
     expected to remain substantially unchanged during the 
     contemplated contract period in terms of production rate, 
     procurement rate, and total quantities.
       (3) There is a reasonable expectation that, throughout the 
     contemplated contract period, the Secretary will request 
     funding for the contract at the level required to avoid 
     contract cancellation.
       (4) That there is a stable design for the property to be 
     procured and that the technical risks associated with such 
     property are not excessive.
       (5) The estimates of both the cost of the contract and the 
     anticipated cost avoidance through the use of an economic 
     order quantity contract are realistic.
       (6) Entering into the contract will promote the national 
     security interests of the United States.
       (d) Certification Requirement.--Except as provided in 
     subsection (e), the Secretary of Defense may not enter into a 
     contract under subsection (a) until a period of 30 days has 
     elapsed following the date on which the Secretary certifies 
     to the congressional defense committees, in writing, that 
     each of the following conditions is satisfied:
       (1) A sufficient number of end items of the system being 
     acquired under such contract have

[[Page H8715]]

     been delivered at or within the most recently available 
     estimates of the program acquisition unit cost or procurement 
     unit cost for such system to determine that the estimates of 
     the unit costs are realistic.
       (2) During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be 
     awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the 
     contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense 
     program submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, 
     United States Code, for that fiscal year will include the 
     funding required to execute the program without cancellation.
       (3) The contract is a fixed-price type contract.
       (4) The proposed contract provides for production at not 
     less than minimum economic rates given the existing tooling 
     and facilities.
       (5) The Secretary has determined that each of the 
     conditions described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of 
     subsection (c) will be met by such contract and has provided 
     the basis for such determination to the congressional defense 
     committees.
       (6) The determination under paragraph (5) was made after 
     the completion of a cost analysis performed by the Director 
     of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation for the purpose of 
     section 2334(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, and the 
     analysis supports that determination.
       (e) Exception.--Notwithstanding subsection (d), the 
     Secretary of Defense may enter into a contract under 
     subsection (a) on or after March 1, 2018, if--
       (1) the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
     has not completed a cost analysis of the preliminary findings 
     made by the Secretary under subsection (c) with respect to 
     the contract;
       (2) the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense 
     committees, in writing, that each of the conditions described 
     in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (d) is satisfied; 
     and
       (3) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on 
     which the Secretary submits the certification under paragraph 
     (2).

     SEC. 142. AUTHORITY FOR EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL UNITS TO 
                   ACQUIRE NEW OR EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES AND 
                   CAPABILITIES.

       The Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the head 
     of each military service, may provide to an explosive 
     ordnance disposal unit the authority to acquire new or 
     emerging technologies and capabilities that are not 
     specifically provided for in the authorized equipment 
     allowance for the unit, as such allowance is set forth in the 
     table of equipment and table of allowance for the unit.

     SEC. 143. REQUIREMENT THAT CERTAIN AIRCRAFT AND UNMANNED 
                   AERIAL VEHICLES USE SPECIFIED STANDARD DATA 
                   LINK.

       Section 157 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1667) is 
     amended--
       (1) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
       ``(b) Solicitations.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
       ``(1) ensure that any solicitation issued for a Common Data 
     Link described in subsection (a), regardless of whether the 
     solicitation is issued by a military department or a 
     contractor with respect to a subcontract--
       ``(A) conforms to a Department of Defense specification 
     standard, including interfaces and waveforms, existing as of 
     the date of the solicitation; and
       ``(B) does not include any proprietary or undocumented 
     waveforms or control interfaces or data interfaces as a 
     requirement or criterion for evaluation; and
       ``(2) notify the congressional defense committees not later 
     than 15 days after issuing a solicitation for a Common Data 
     Link to be sunset (CDL-TBS) waveform.''; and
       (2) in subsection (c), in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1)--
       (A) by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
     ``Deputy Secretary of Defense'';
       (B) by striking ``Under Secretary'' and inserting ``Deputy 
     Secretary of Defense''; and
       (C) by inserting ``before October 1, 2023'' after 
     ``committees''.

     SEC. 144. REINSTATEMENT OF REQUIREMENT TO PRESERVE CERTAIN C-
                   5 AIRCRAFT; MOBILITY CAPABILITY AND 
                   REQUIREMENTS STUDY.

       (a) Preservation of Retired Aircraft.--Section 141 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
     (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1659), as amended by section 
     132 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (Public Law 114-328), is amended by inserting after 
     subsection (c) the following:
       ``(d) Preservation of Certain Retired C-5 Aircraft.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
     preserve eight retired C-5 aircraft until the date that is 30 
     days after the date on which the briefing under section 
     144(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2018 is provided to the congressional defense 
     committees.
       ``(2) Manner of preservation.--The retired C-5 aircraft 
     preserved under paragraph (1) shall be preserved such that 
     each aircraft--
       ``(A) can be returned to service; and
       ``(B) is not used to supply parts to other aircraft unless 
     specifically authorized by the Secretary of Defense upon a 
     request by the Secretary of the Air Force.''.
       (b) Study and Briefing.--
       (1) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
     mobility capability and requirements study that estimates the 
     number or airlift aircraft, tanker aircraft, and sealift 
     ships needed to meet combatant commander requirements.
       (2) Briefing.--Not later than September 30, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional 
     defense committees a briefing on the results of the study 
     carried out under paragraph (1). The briefing shall include--
       (A) a detailed explanation of the strategy and associated 
     force sizing and shaping constructs, associated scenarios, 
     and assumptions used to conduct the analysis;
       (B) estimated risk based on Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
     Staff risk management classifications; and
       (C) implications of operations in contested areas with 
     regard to the Civil Reserve Air Fleet.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Cost controls for presidential aircraft recapitalization 
              program.
Sec. 212. Capital investment authority.
Sec. 213. Prizes for advanced technology achievements.
Sec. 214. Joint Hypersonics Transition Office.
Sec. 215. Department of Defense directed energy weapon system 
              prototyping and demonstration program.
Sec. 216. Appropriate use of authority for prototype projects.
Sec. 217. Mechanisms for expedited access to technical talent and 
              expertise at academic institutions to support Department 
              of Defense missions.
Sec. 218. Modification of laboratory quality enhancement program.
Sec. 219. Reauthorization of Department of Defense Established Program 
              to Stimulate Competitive Research.
Sec. 220. Codification and enhancement of authorities to provide funds 
              for defense laboratories for research and development of 
              technologies for military missions.
Sec. 221. Expansion of definition of competitive procedures to include 
              competitive selection for award of science and technology 
              proposals.
Sec. 222. Inclusion of modeling and simulation in test and evaluation 
              activities for purposes of planning and budget 
              certification.
Sec. 223. Limitation on availability of funds for F-35 Joint Strike 
              Fighter Follow-On Modernization.
Sec. 224. Improvement of update process for populating mission data 
              files used in advanced combat aircraft.
Sec. 225. Support for national security innovation and entrepreneurial 
              education.
Sec. 226. Limitation on cancellation of designation Executive Agent for 
              a certain Defense Production Act program.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 231. Columbia-class program accountability matrices.
Sec. 232. Review of barriers to innovation in research and engineering 
              activities of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 233. Pilot program to improve incentives for technology transfer 
              from Department of Defense laboratories.
Sec. 234. Competitive acquisition plan for low probability of detection 
              data link networks.
Sec. 235. Clarification of selection dates for pilot program for the 
              enhancement of the research, development, test, and 
              evaluation centers of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 236. Requirement for a plan to build a prototype for a new ground 
              combat vehicle for the Army.
Sec. 237. Plan for successfully fielding the Integrated Air and Missile 
              Defense Battle Command System.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

     SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Department of Defense for 
     research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in 
     the funding table in section 4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

     SEC. 211. COST CONTROLS FOR PRESIDENTIAL AIRCRAFT 
                   RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM.

       (a) Fixed Capability Requirements.--Except as provided in 
     subsection (b), the capability requirements for aircraft 
     procured under the presidential aircraft recapitalization 
     program of the Air Force (referred to in this section as the 
     ``PAR Program'') shall be the capability requirements 
     identified in version 7.0.2 of the system requirement 
     document for the PAR Program.
       (b) Adjustments.--The Chief of Staff of the Air Force may 
     adjust the capability requirements described in subsection 
     (a) only if the Chief of Staff submits to the congressional 
     defense committees a written determination that such 
     adjustment is necessary--
       (1) to resolve an ambiguity relating to the capability 
     requirement;
       (2) to address a problem with the administration of the 
     capability requirement;
       (3) to lower the development cost or life-cycle cost of the 
     PAR program;
       (4) to comply with a change in international, Federal, 
     State, or local law or regulation that takes effect after 
     September 30, 2017;
       (5) to address a safety issue; or
       (6) subject to subsection (c), to address an emerging 
     threat or vulnerability.
       (c) Limitation on Adjustment for Emerging Threat or 
     Vulnerability.--The Chief of Staff of the Air Force may use 
     the authority under paragraph (6) of subsection (b) to adjust 
     the requirements described in subsection (a) only if

[[Page H8716]]

     the Secretary and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, on a 
     nondelegable basis--
       (1) jointly determine that such adjustment is necessary and 
     in the interests of the national security of the United 
     States; and
       (2) submit to the congressional defense committees notice 
     of such joint determination.
       (d) Analysis for Fixed-price Type Contracts.--The Secretary 
     of the Air Force shall work with the contractor and conduct 
     an analysis of risk and explore opportunities to enter into 
     additional fixed price type contracts for engineering and 
     manufacturing development beyond the procurement of the 
     unmodified commercial aircraft as described in paragraph (1).
       (e) Quarterly Briefings.--
       (1) In general.--Beginning not later than October 1, 2017, 
     and on a quarterly basis thereafter through October 1, 2022, 
     the Secretary of the Air Force shall provide to the 
     congressional defense committees a briefing on the efforts of 
     the Secretary to control costs under the PAR Program.
       (2) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall 
     include, with respect to the PAR Program, the following:
       (A) An overview of the program schedule.
       (B) A description of each contract awarded under the 
     program, including a description of the type of contract and 
     the status of the contract.
       (C) An assessment of the status of the program with respect 
     to--
       (i) modification;
       (ii) testing;
       (iii) delivery; and
       (iv) sustainment.
       (f) Service Acquisition Executive Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``service acquisition executive'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 101(a)(10) of title 10, 
     United States Code.

     SEC. 212. CAPITAL INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.

       Section 2208(k)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``$250,000'' and inserting ``$500,000 for 
     procurements by a major range and test facility installation 
     or a science and technology reinvention laboratory and not 
     less than $250,000 for procurements at all other 
     facilities''.

     SEC. 213. PRIZES FOR ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ACHIEVEMENTS.

       Section 2374a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``in recognition of'' 
     and inserting ``and other types of prizes that the Secretary 
     determines are appropriate to recognize'';
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``cash prize of'' and 
     inserting ``prize with a fair market value of'';
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
     inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
     Engineering''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) No prize competition may result in the award of a 
     solely nonmonetary prize with a fair market value of more 
     than $10,000 without the approval of the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Research and Engineering.'';
       (3) in subsection (e)--
       (A) by inserting ``or nonmonetary items'' after ``accept 
     funds'';
       (B) by striking ``and from State and local governments'' 
     and inserting ``, from State and local governments, and from 
     the private sector''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following: ``The Secretary may 
     not give any special consideration to any private sector 
     entity in return for a donation.''; and
       (4) by amending subsection (f) to read as follows:
       ``(f) Use of Prize Authority.--Use of prize authority under 
     this section shall be considered the use of competitive 
     procedures for the purposes of section 2304 of this title.''.

     SEC. 214. JOINT HYPERSONICS TRANSITION OFFICE.

       (a) Redesignation.--The joint technology office on 
     hypersonics in the Office of the Secretary of Defense is 
     redesignated as the ``Joint Hypersonics Transition Office''. 
     Any reference in a law (other than this section), map, 
     regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
     States to the joint technology office on hypersonics shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to the Joint Hypersonics Transition 
     Office.
       (b) Hypersonics Development.--Section 218 of the John 
     Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), as amended by 
     section 1079(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 999), is 
     amended--
       (1) in the heading of subsection (a), by striking ``Joint 
     Technology Office on Hypersonics'' and inserting ``Joint 
     Hypersonics Transition Office'';
       (2) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``joint technology 
     office on hypersonics'' and inserting ``Joint Hypersonics 
     Transition Office (in this section referred to as the 
     `Office')''; and
       (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``office'' and 
     inserting ``Office'';
       (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``joint technology 
     office established under subsection (a)'' and inserting 
     ``Office''; and
       (4) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
       ``(c) Responsibilities.--In carrying out the program 
     required by subsection (b), the Office shall do the 
     following:
       ``(1) Expedite testing, evaluation, and acquisition of 
     hypersonic weapon systems to meet the stated needs of the 
     warfighter, including flight testing, ground-based-testing, 
     and underwater launch testing.
       ``(2) Coordinate and integrate current and future research, 
     development, test, and evaluation programs and system 
     demonstration programs of the Department of Defense on 
     hypersonics.
       ``(3) Undertake appropriate actions to ensure--
       ``(A) close and continuous integration of the programs on 
     hypersonics of the military departments and the Defense 
     Agencies with the programs on hypersonics across the Federal 
     Government and with appropriate private sector and foreign 
     organizations; and
       ``(B) that both foundational research and developmental and 
     operational testing resources are adequate and well funded, 
     and that facilities are made available in a timely manner to 
     support hypersonics research, demonstration programs, and 
     system development.
       ``(4) Approve prototyping demonstration programs on 
     hypersonic systems to speed the maturation and deployment of 
     the systems to the warfighter,.
       ``(5) Ensure that any demonstration program on hypersonic 
     systems that is carried out in any year after its approval 
     under paragraph (3) is carried out only if certified under 
     subsection (e) as being consistent with the roadmap under 
     subsection (d).
       ``(6) Develop strategies and roadmaps for hypersonic 
     technologies to transition to operational capabilities for 
     the warfighter.
       ``(7) Coordinate with relevant stakeholders and agencies to 
     support United States technological advantage in developing 
     hypersonics.'';
       (5) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``joint technology 
     office established under subsection (a)'' and inserting 
     ``Office''; and
       (6) in subsection (e)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``joint technology office 
     established under subsection (a)'' and inserting ``Office''; 
     and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``joint technology 
     office'' and inserting ``Office''.

     SEC. 215. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DIRECTED ENERGY WEAPON SYSTEM 
                   PROTOTYPING AND DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

       (a) Designation of Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
     and Engineering as the Official With Principal Responsibility 
     for Development and Demonstration of Directed Energy 
     Weapons.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 219 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2431 note) is amended by striking ``Not 
     later'' and all that follows through ``Department of 
     Defense'' and inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Research and Engineering shall serve''.
       (b) Prototyping and Demonstration Program.--Such section is 
     further amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(c) Prototyping and Demonstration Program.--
       ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense, acting 
     through the Under Secretary, shall establish a program on the 
     prototyping and demonstration of directed energy weapon 
     systems to build and maintain the military superiority of the 
     United States by--
       ``(A) accelerating, when feasible, the fielding of directed 
     energy weapon prototypes that would help counter 
     technological advantages of potential adversaries of the 
     United States; and
       ``(B) supporting the military departments, the combatant 
     commanders, and other relevant defense agencies and entities 
     in developing prototypes and demonstrating operational 
     utility of high energy lasers and high powered microwave 
     weapon systems.
       ``(2) Guidelines.--(A) Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2018, the Under Secretary shall issue 
     guidelines for the operation of the program established under 
     paragraph (1), including the following:
       ``(i) Criteria required for an application for funding by a 
     military department, defense agency or entity, or a combatant 
     command.
       ``(ii) The priorities, based on validated requirements or 
     capability gaps, for fielding prototype directed energy 
     weapon system technologies developed by research funding of 
     the Department or industry.
       ``(iii) Criteria for evaluation of an application for 
     funding or changes to policies or acquisition and business 
     practices by such a department, agency, or command for 
     purposes of improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
     program.
       ``(B) Funding for a military department, defense agency, or 
     combatant command under the program established under 
     paragraph (1) may only be available for advanced technology 
     development, prototyping, and demonstrations in which the 
     Department of Defense maintains management of the technical 
     baseline and a primary emphasis on technology transition and 
     evaluating military utility to enhance the likelihood that 
     the particular directed energy weapon system will meet the 
     Department end user's need.
       ``(3) Applications for funding.--(A) Not less frequently 
     than once each year, the Under Secretary shall solicit from 
     the heads of the military departments, the defense agencies, 
     and the combatant commands applications for funding under the 
     program established under paragraph (1) to be used to enter 
     into contracts, cooperative agreements, or other transaction 
     agreements entered into pursuant to section 2371b of title 
     10, United States Code, with appropriate entities for the 
     prototyping or commercialization of technologies.
       ``(B) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require 
     any official of the Department of Defense to provide funding 
     under the program to any congressional earmark as defined 
     pursuant to clause 9 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives or any congressionally directed spending item 
     as defined pursuant to paragraph 5 of rule XLIV of the 
     Standing Rules of the Senate.

[[Page H8717]]

       ``(4) Funding.--(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B) 
     and subject to the availability of appropriations for such 
     purpose, of the funds authorized to be appropriated by the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for research, 
     development, test, and evaluation, defense-wide, up to 
     $100,000,000 may be available to the Under Secretary to 
     allocate to the military departments, the defense agencies, 
     and the combatant commands to carry out the program 
     established under paragraph (1).
       ``(B) Not more than half of the amounts made available 
     under subparagraph (A) may be allocated as described in such 
     paragraph until the Under Secretary--
       ``(i) develops the strategic plan required by subsection 
     (a)(2)(A); and
       ``(ii) submits such strategic plan to the congressional 
     defense committees.
       ``(5) Under secretary defined.--In this subsection, the 
     term `Under Secretary' means the Under Secretary of Defense 
     for Research and Engineering in the Under Secretary's 
     capacity as the official with principal responsibility for 
     the development and demonstration of directed energy weapons 
     pursuant to subsection (a)(1).''.

     SEC. 216. APPROPRIATE USE OF AUTHORITY FOR PROTOTYPE 
                   PROJECTS.

       Section 2371b(d)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting ``or nonprofit research institution'' 
     after ``defense contractor''.

     SEC. 217. MECHANISMS FOR EXPEDITED ACCESS TO TECHNICAL TALENT 
                   AND EXPERTISE AT ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS TO 
                   SUPPORT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MISSIONS.

       (a) Arrangements Authorized.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense and each 
     secretary of a military department may establish one or more 
     multi-institution task order contracts, consortia, 
     cooperative agreements, or other arrangements to facilitate 
     expedited access to university technical expertise, including 
     faculty, staff, and students, in support of Department of 
     Defense missions in the areas specified in subsection (e).
       (2) Use for technical analyses and engineering support.--
     The Secretary may use an arrangement under paragraph (1) to 
     fund technical analyses and other engineering support as 
     required to address acquisition, management, and operational 
     challenges, including support for classified programs and 
     activities.
       (b) Limitation.--An arrangement established under 
     subsection (a)(1) may not be used to fund research programs 
     that can be executed through other Department of Defense 
     basic research activities.
       (c) Consultation With Other Department of Defense 
     Activities.--An arrangement established under subsection 
     (a)(1) shall, to the degree practicable, be made in 
     consultation with other Department of Defense activities, 
     including federally funded research and development centers 
     (FFRDCs), university affiliated research centers (UARCs), and 
     Defense laboratories and test centers, for purposes of 
     providing technical expertise and reducing costs and 
     duplicative efforts.
       (d) Policies and Procedures.--If the Secretary of Defense 
     or a secretary of a military department establishes one or 
     more arrangements under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of 
     Defense shall establish and implement policies and procedures 
     to govern--
       (1) selection of participants in the arrangement or 
     arrangements;
       (2) the awarding of task orders under the arrangement or 
     arrangements;
       (3) maximum award size for tasks under the arrangement or 
     arrangements;
       (4) the appropriate use of competitive awards and sole 
     source awards under the arrangement or arrangements; and
       (5) technical areas under the arrangement or arrangements.
       (e) Mission Areas.--The areas specified in this subsection 
     are as follows:
       (1) Cybersecurity.
       (2) Air and ground vehicles.
       (3) Shipbuilding.
       (4) Explosives detection and defeat.
       (5) Undersea warfare.
       (6) Trusted electronics.
       (7) Unmanned systems.
       (8) Directed energy.
       (9) Energy, power, and propulsion.
       (10) Management science and operations research.
       (11) Artificial intelligence.
       (12) Data analytics.
       (13) Business systems.
       (14) Technology transfer and transition.
       (15) Biological engineering and genetic enhancement.
       (16) High performance computing.
       (17) Materials science and engineering.
       (18) Quantum information sciences.
       (19) Special operations activities.
       (20) Modeling and simulation.
       (21) Autonomous systems.
       (22) Model based engineering.
       (23) Such other areas as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (f) Sunset.--No new arrangements may be entered into under 
     subsection (a)(1) after September 30, 2020.
       (g) Arrangements Established Under Subsection (a)(1) 
     Defined.--In this section, the term ``arrangement established 
     under subsection (a)(1)'' means a multi-institution task 
     order contract, consortia, cooperative agreement, or other 
     arrangement established under subsection (a)(1).

     SEC. 218. MODIFICATION OF LABORATORY QUALITY ENHANCEMENT 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Section 211 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
     inserting a semicolon;
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the semicolon and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(C) new interpretations of existing statutes and 
     regulations that would enhance the ability of a director of a 
     science and technology reinvention laboratory to manage the 
     facility and discharge the mission of the laboratory;'';
       (2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3)(A) Each panel described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) 
     of subsection (b) shall submit to the panel described in 
     paragraph (4) of such subsection (relating to governance and 
     oversight processes) the following:
       ``(i) The findings of the panel with respect to the review 
     conducted by the panel under subsection (a)(1)(C).
       ``(ii) The recommendations made by the panel under such 
     subsection.
       ``(iii) Such comments, findings, and recommendations as the 
     panel may have received by a science and technology 
     reinvention laboratory with respect to--
       ``(I) the review conducted by the panel under such 
     subsection; or
       ``(II) recommendations made by the panel under such 
     subsection.
       ``(B)(i) The panel described in subsection (b)(4) shall 
     review and refashion such recommendations as the panel may 
     receive under subparagraph (A).
       ``(ii) In reviewing and refashioning recommendations under 
     clause (i), the panel may, as the panel considers 
     appropriate, consult with the science and technology 
     executive of the affected service.
       ``(C) The panel described in subsection (b)(4) shall submit 
     to the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
     Engineering the recommendations made by the panel under 
     subsection (a)(1)(C) and the recommendations refashioned by 
     the panel under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.'';
       (3) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsection 
     (f) and (g), respectively; and
       (4) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
     subsection (e):
       ``(e) Interpretation of Provisions of Law.--(1) The Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, acting 
     under the guidance of the Secretary, shall issue regulations 
     regarding the meaning, scope, implementation, and 
     applicability of any provision of a statute relating to a 
     science and technology reinvention laboratory.
       ``(2) In interpreting or defining under paragraph (1), the 
     Under Secretary shall, to the degree practicable, emphasize 
     providing the maximum operational flexibility to the 
     directors of the science and technology reinvention 
     laboratories to discharge the missions of their laboratories.
       ``(3) In interpreting or defining under paragraph (1), the 
     Under Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, consult and 
     coordinate with the secretaries of the military departments 
     and such other agencies or entities as the Under Secretary 
     considers relevant, on any proposed revision to regulations 
     under paragraph (1).
       ``(4) In interpreting or defining under paragraph (1), the 
     Under Secretary shall seek recommendations from the panel 
     described in subsection (b)(4).''.
       (b) Technical Corrections.--(1) Subsections (a), (c)(1)(C), 
     and (d)(2) of such section are amended by striking 
     ``Assistant Secretary'' each place it appears and inserting 
     ``Under Secretary''.
       (2) Subparagraph (C) of section 342(b)(3) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 
     103-337), as amended by section 211(f) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328), as redesignated by subsection (a)(3) of this 
     section, is amended by striking ``Assistant Secretary'' and 
     inserting ``Under Secretary''.

     SEC. 219. REAUTHORIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   ESTABLISHED PROGRAM TO STIMULATE COMPETITIVE 
                   RESEARCH.

       (a) Modification of Program Objectives.--Subsection (b) of 
     section 257 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs 
     (2) and (3), respectively;
       (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated by 
     paragraph (1), the following new paragraph (1):
       ``(1) To increase the number of university researchers in 
     eligible States capable of performing science and engineering 
     research responsive to the needs of the Department of 
     Defense.''; and
       (3) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
     inserting ``relevant to the mission of the Department of 
     Defense and'' after ``that is''.
       (b) Modification of Program Activities.--Subsection (c) of 
     such section is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
     paragraph (3):
       ``(3) To provide assistance to science and engineering 
     researchers at institutions of higher education in eligible 
     States through collaboration between Department of Defense 
     laboratories and such researchers.''.
       (c) Modification of Eligibility Criteria for State 
     Participation.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ``in areas relevant 
     to the mission of the Department of Defense'' after 
     ``programs''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) The Under Secretary shall not remove a designation of 
     a State under paragraph (2) because the State exceeds the 
     funding levels specified under subparagraph (A) of such 
     paragraph

[[Page H8718]]

     unless the State has exceeded such funding levels for at 
     least two consecutive years.''.
       (d) Modification of Coordination Requirement.--Subsection 
     (e) of such section is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``shall'' each place it 
     appears and inserting ``may''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``relevant to the 
     mission of the Department of Defense and'' after ``Research 
     are''.
       (e) Modification of Name.--
       (1) In general.--Such section is amended--
       (A) in subsections (a) and (e) by striking ``Experimental'' 
     each place it appears and inserting ``Established''; and
       (B) in the section heading, by striking ``experimental'' 
     and inserting ``established''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--Such Act is amended, in the table 
     of contents in section 2(b), by striking the item relating to 
     section 257 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 257. Defense established program to stimulate competitive 
              research.''.
       (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 307 of the 1997 
     Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Recovery from 
     Natural Disasters, and for Overseas Peacekeeping Efforts, 
     Including Those in Bosnia (Public Law 105-18) is amended by 
     striking ``Experimental'' and inserting ``Established''.

     SEC. 220. CODIFICATION AND ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITIES TO 
                   PROVIDE FUNDS FOR DEFENSE LABORATORIES FOR 
                   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF TECHNOLOGIES FOR 
                   MILITARY MISSIONS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2362 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2363. Mechanisms to provide funds for defense 
       laboratories for research and development of technologies 
       for military missions

       ``(a) Mechanisms to Provide Funds.--(1) The Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
     departments, shall establish mechanisms under which the 
     director of a defense laboratory may use an amount of funds 
     equal to not less than two percent and not more than four 
     percent of all funds available to the defense laboratory for 
     the following purposes:
       ``(A) To fund innovative basic and applied research that is 
     conducted at the defense laboratory and supports military 
     missions.
       ``(B) To fund development programs that support the 
     transition of technologies developed by the defense 
     laboratory into operational use.
       ``(C) To fund workforce development activities that improve 
     the capacity of the defense laboratory to recruit and retain 
     personnel with necessary scientific and engineering expertise 
     that support military missions.
       ``(D) To fund the repair or minor military construction of 
     the laboratory infrastructure and equipment, in accordance 
     with subsection (b).
       ``(2) The mechanisms established under paragraph (1) shall 
     provide that funding shall be used under paragraph (1) at the 
     discretion of the director of a defense laboratory in 
     consultation with the science and technology executive of the 
     military department concerned.
       ``(3) The science and technology executive of a military 
     department may develop policies and guidance to leverage 
     funding and promote cross-laboratory collaboration, including 
     with laboratories of other military departments.
       ``(4) After consultation with the science and technology 
     executive of the military department concerned, the director 
     of a defense laboratory may charge customer activities a 
     fixed percentage fee, in addition to normal costs of 
     performance, in order to obtain funds to carry out activities 
     authorized by this subsection. The fixed fee may not exceed 
     four percent of costs.
       ``(b) Availability of Funds for Infrastructure Projects.--
     Funds shall be available in accordance with subsection 
     (a)(1)(D) only if--
       ``(1) the Secretary notifies the congressional defense 
     committees of the total cost of the project before the date 
     on which the Secretary uses the mechanism under such 
     subsection for such project; and
       ``(2) the Secretary ensures that the project complies with 
     the applicable cost limitations in--
       ``(A) section 2805(d) of this title, with respect to 
     revitalization and recapitalization projects; and
       ``(B) section 2811 of this title, with respect to repair 
     projects.
       ``(c) Annual Report on Use of Authority.--(1) Not later 
     than March 1 of each year until March 1, 2025, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report on the use of the authority under 
     subsection (a) during the preceding year.
       ``(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, with 
     respect to the year covered by the report, the following:
       ``(A) A description of the mechanisms used to provide 
     funding under subsection (a)(1).
       ``(B) A statement of the amount of funding made available 
     to each defense laboratory for research described under such 
     subsection.
       ``(C) A description of the investments made by each defense 
     laboratory using funds under such subsection.
       ``(D) A description and assessment of any improvements in 
     the performance of the defense laboratories as a result of 
     investments under such subsection.
       ``(E) A description and assessment of the contributions to 
     the development of needed military capabilities provided by 
     research using funds under such subsection.
       ``(F) A description of any modification to the mechanisms 
     under subsection (a) that would improve the efficiency of the 
     authority under such subsection to support military 
     missions.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 139 of such title is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 2362 the 
     following new item:

``2363. Mechanisms to provide funds for defense laboratories for 
              research and development of technologies for military 
              missions.''.
       (c) Conforming Amendments.--(1) Section 219 of the Duncan 
     Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), is hereby 
     repealed.
       (2) Section 2805(d)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by striking ``under section 219(a) of the Duncan 
     Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note)'' and 
     inserting ``section 2363(a) of this title''.

     SEC. 221. EXPANSION OF DEFINITION OF COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES 
                   TO INCLUDE COMPETITIVE SELECTION FOR AWARD OF 
                   SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROPOSALS.

       Section 2302(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``basic research'' and inserting 
     ``science and technology''.

     SEC. 222. INCLUSION OF MODELING AND SIMULATION IN TEST AND 
                   EVALUATION ACTIVITIES FOR PURPOSES OF PLANNING 
                   AND BUDGET CERTIFICATION.

       Section 196 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (d)(1), in the first sentence, by 
     inserting ``, including modeling and simulation 
     capabilities'' after ``and resources''; and
       (2) in subsection (e)(1), by inserting ``, including 
     modeling and simulation activities,'' after ``evaluation 
     activities''.

     SEC. 223. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR F-35 JOINT 
                   STRIKE FIGHTER FOLLOW-ON MODERNIZATION.

       (a) In General.--Not more than 25 percent of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 or any other fiscal year for 
     the Department of Defense may be obligated for F-35 Joint 
     Strike Fighter Follow-On Modernization until the Secretary of 
     Defense provides the final report required under section 
     224(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328).
       (b) Dual Capable Aircraft.--Neither the limitation in 
     subsection (a) nor the limitation in section 224(a) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 shall 
     be construed to limit or otherwise restrict any funding that 
     is required to develop, certify, or deliver F-35A dual 
     capable aircraft.

     SEC. 224. IMPROVEMENT OF UPDATE PROCESS FOR POPULATING 
                   MISSION DATA FILES USED IN ADVANCED COMBAT 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Improvements To Update Process.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall take such 
     actions as may be necessary to improve the process used to 
     update the mission data files used in advanced combat 
     aircraft of the United States so that such updates can occur 
     more quickly.
       (2) Requirements.--In improving the process under paragraph 
     (1), the Secretary shall ensure the following:
       (A) That under such process, updates to the mission data 
     files are developed, operationally tested, and loaded onto 
     systems of advanced combat aircraft while in theaters of 
     operation in a time-sensitive manner to allow for the 
     distinguishing of threats, including distinguishing friends 
     from foes, loading and delivery of weapon suites, and 
     coordination with allied and coalition armed forces.
       (B) When updates are made to the mission data files, all 
     areas of responsibility (AoRs) are included.
       (C) The process includes best practices relating to such 
     mission data files that have been identified by industry and 
     allies of the United States.
       (D) The process improves the exchange of information 
     between weapons systems of the United States and weapon 
     systems of allies and partners of the United States, with 
     respect to such mission data files.
       (b) Consultation and Pilot Programs.--In carrying out 
     subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult the innovation 
     organizations resident in the Department of Defense and may 
     consider carrying out a pilot program under another provision 
     of this Act.
       (c) Report.--Not later than March 31, 2018, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     on the actions taken by the Secretary under subsection (a)(1) 
     and how the process described in such subsection has been 
     improved.

     SEC. 225. SUPPORT FOR NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION AND 
                   ENTREPRENEURIAL EDUCATION.

       (a) Support Authorized.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may, acting 
     through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
     Engineering, support national security innovation and 
     entrepreneurial education programs.
       (2) Elements.--Support under paragraph (1) may include the 
     following:
       (A) Materials to recruit participants, including veterans, 
     for programs described in paragraph (1).
       (B) Model curriculum for such programs.
       (C) Training materials for such programs.
       (D) Best practices for the conduct of such programs.
       (E) Experimental learning opportunities for program 
     participants to interact with operational forces and better 
     understand national security challenges.
       (F) Exchanges and partnerships with Department of Defense 
     science and technology activities.
       (G) Activities consistent with the Proof of Concept 
     Commercialization Pilot Program established under section 
     1603 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2359 note).

[[Page H8719]]

       (b) Consultation.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
     Secretary may consult with the heads of such Federal 
     agencies, universities, and public and private entities 
     engaged in the development of advanced technologies as the 
     Secretary determines to be appropriate.
       (c) Authorities.--The Secretary may--
       (1) develop and maintain metrics to assess national 
     security innovation and entrepreneurial education activities 
     to ensure standards for programs supported under subsection 
     (b) are consistent and being met; and
       (2) ensure that any recipient of an award under the Small 
     Business Technology Transfer program, the Small Business 
     Innovation Research program, and science and technology 
     programs of the Department of Defense has the option to 
     participate in training under a national security innovation 
     and entrepreneurial education program supported under 
     subsection (b).
       (d) Participation by Federal Employees and Members of the 
     Armed Forces.--The Secretary may encourage Federal employees 
     and members of the Armed Forces to participate in a national 
     security innovation and entrepreneurial education program 
     supported under subsection (a) in order to gain exposure to 
     modern innovation and entrepreneurial methodologies.
       (e) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the 
     Secretary shall consider coordinating and partnering with 
     activities and organizations involved in the following:
       (1) Hack the Army.
       (2) Hack the Air Force.
       (3) Hack the Pentagon.
       (4) The Army Digital Service.
       (5) The Defense Digital Service.
       (6) The Air Force Digital Service.
       (7) Challenge and prize competitions of the Defense 
     Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).
       (8) The Defense Science Study Group.
       (9) The Small Business Innovation Research Program (SBIR).
       (10) The Small Business Technology Transfer Program (STTR).
       (11) War colleges of the military departments.
       (12) Hacking for Defense.
       (13) The National Security Science and Engineering Faculty 
     Fellowship (NSSEFF) program.
       (14) The Science, Mathematics and Research for 
     Transformation (SMART) scholarship program.
       (15) The young faculty award program of the Defense 
     Advanced Research Projects Agency.

     SEC. 226. LIMITATION ON CANCELLATION OF DESIGNATION EXECUTIVE 
                   AGENT FOR A CERTAIN DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) Limitation on Cancellation of Designation.--The 
     Secretary of Defense may not implement the decision, issued 
     on July 1, 2017, to cancel the designation, under Department 
     of Defense Directive 4400.1E, entitled ``Defense Production 
     Act Programs'' and dated October 12, 2001, of the currently 
     assigned Department of Defense Executive Agent for the 
     program carried out under title III of the Defense Production 
     Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4531 et seq.) until the Secretary 
     has--
       (1) completed the review and assessment required by 
     subsection (b)(1); and
       (2) carried out the briefing required by subsection (c).
       (b) Review and Assessment Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of the Air Force, shall conduct a review 
     and assessment of the program described in subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--The review and assessment required by 
     paragraph (1) shall include the following:
       (A) Assessment of the current management structure for the 
     program, including analysis of the mechanisms for 
     accountability, as well as cost and management controls 
     currently in place.
       (B) Analysis of alternatives for proposals to modify that 
     management structure to increase accountability, cost and 
     management controls. Such analysis of alternatives should 
     consider the relative merits of centralization and 
     decentralization, roles of other military departments in 
     program management and contracting, as well as the different 
     roles the Office of the Secretary of Defense might play in 
     management, oversight and execution.
       (C) Recommendations for improving the assessment and 
     selection of projects in order to--
       (i) ensure that projects selected are appropriate for use 
     of funds appropriated to carry out title III of the Defense 
     Production Act of 1950;
       (ii) ensure that sufficient vetting and management controls 
     are in place to ensure a reasonable degree of confidence that 
     project ideas or the companies being supported will be 
     viable; and
       (iii) increase overall successful execution for selected 
     projects.
       (D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (c) Briefing Required.--The Secretary shall brief the 
     appropriate Committees of Congress on the findings of the 
     Secretary with respect to the review and assessment conducted 
     under subsection (b).
       (d) Notification Required.--In the event the Secretary of 
     Defense decides to cancel the designation, under Department 
     of Defense Directive 4400.1E, entitled ``Defense Production 
     Act Programs'' and dated October 12, 2001, of the currently 
     assigned Department of Defense Executive Agent for the 
     program described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
     submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a written 
     notification of such decision at least 60 days before the 
     decision goes into effect.
       (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means the--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Financial Services of the House of Representatives.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

     SEC. 231. COLUMBIA-CLASS PROGRAM ACCOUNTABILITY MATRICES.

       (a) Submittal of Matrices.--Concurrent with the President's 
     annual budget request submitted to Congress under section 
     1105 of title 31, United States Code, for fiscal year 2019, 
     the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees and the Comptroller General of the United 
     States the matrices described in subsection (b) relating to 
     the Columbia-class program.
       (b) Matrices Described.--The matrices described in this 
     subsection are the following:
       (1) Design and construction goals.--A matrix that 
     identifies, in six-month increments, key milestones, 
     development events, and specific performance goals for the 
     design and construction of the Columbia-class program, which 
     shall be subdivided, at a minimum, according to the 
     following:
       (A) Technology-readiness levels of major components and key 
     demonstration events.
       (B) Design maturity.
       (C) Manufacturing-readiness levels for critical 
     manufacturing operations and key demonstration events.
       (D) Manufacturing operations.
       (E) Reliability.
       (2) Cost.--A matrix expressing, in annual increments, the 
     total cost phased over the entire Columbia-class design and 
     construction period of--
       (A) the Navy service cost position for the prime 
     contractor's portion of Columbia-class design and 
     construction activities, including the estimated price at 
     completion for each submarine and confidence level of this 
     estimate;
       (B) the program manager's estimate for the prime 
     contractor's portion of Columbia-class design and 
     construction activities, including the estimated price and 
     variance at completion for each submarine; and
       (C) the prime contractor's estimate for the prime 
     contractor's portion of Columbia-class design and 
     construction activities, including the estimated price and 
     variance at completion for each submarine.
       (c) Update of Matrices.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
     which the Secretary of the Navy submits the matrices required 
     by subsection (a), and concurrent with the submittal of each 
     annual budget request to Congress under section 1105 of title 
     31, United States Code, beginning with the fiscal year 2020 
     request, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees and the Comptroller General 
     of the United States updates to the matrices described in 
     subsection (b).
       (2) Elements.--Each update submitted under paragraph (1) 
     shall detail progress made toward the goals identified in the 
     matrix described in subsection (b)(1) and provide updated 
     cost data as prescribed in subsection (b)(2).
       (3) Treatment of initial matrices as baseline.--The 
     matrices submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall be 
     treated as the baseline for the full Columbia-class design 
     and construction period for purposes of the updates submitted 
     pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
       (4) Report termination.--The report required under 
     paragraph (1) shall terminate upon delivery of the first 
     Columbia-class submarine.
       (d) Assessment by Comptroller General of the United 
     States.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
     Comptroller General of the United States receives an update 
     to a matrix under subsection (c)(1), the Comptroller General 
     shall review such matrix and provide to the congressional 
     defense committees an assessment of such matrix in whatever 
     form that the Comptroller General deems appropriate.
       (e) Repeal of Report Requirement.--Section 131 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (129 
     Stat. 754; Public Law 114-92) is hereby repealed.
       (f) Major Component Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``major component'' includes, at a minimum, the integrated 
     power system, nuclear reactor, propulsor and related 
     coordinated stern features, stern area system, and common 
     missile compartment.

     SEC. 232. REVIEW OF BARRIERS TO INNOVATION IN RESEARCH AND 
                   ENGINEERING ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
     Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, 
     shall review directives, rules, regulations, and other 
     policies that adversely affect the ability of the innovation, 
     research, and engineering enterprise of the Department of 
     Defense to effectively and efficiently execute its missions, 
     including policies and practices concerning the following:
       (1) Personnel and talent management.
       (2) Financial management and budgeting.
       (3) Infrastructure, installations, and military 
     construction.
       (4) Acquisition.
       (5) Management.
       (6) Such other areas as the Secretary may designate.
       (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on--
       (1) the findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
     review conducted under subsection (a);
       (2) proposed changes in directives, rules, regulations, and 
     other policies that will enhance the ability of the 
     innovation, research, and engineering enterprise of the 
     Department to executive its designated missions, including a 
     description of how proposed changes have been coordinated 
     with other appropriate Secretaries of the

[[Page H8720]]

     military departments and the appropriate heads of the defense 
     agencies; and
       (3) processes by which new directives, rules, regulations, 
     and other policies will be reviewed for their potential to 
     adversely affect the ability of the innovation, research, and 
     engineering enterprise of the Department and the lead 
     official designated to execute such review in consultation 
     with other relevant and appropriate Secretaries of the 
     military departments and heads of defense agencies.

     SEC. 233. PILOT PROGRAM TO IMPROVE INCENTIVES FOR TECHNOLOGY 
                   TRANSFER FROM DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   LABORATORIES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
     pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of 
     distributing royalties and other payments as described in 
     this section. Under the pilot program, except as provided in 
     subsections (b) and (d), any royalties or other payments 
     received by a Federal agency from the licensing and 
     assignment of inventions under agreements entered into by 
     Department of Defense laboratories, and from the licensing of 
     inventions of Department of Defense laboratories, shall be 
     retained by the laboratory which produced the invention and 
     shall be disposed of as follows:
       (1)(A) The laboratory director shall pay each year the 
     first $2,000, and thereafter at least 20 percent, of the 
     royalties or other payments, other than payments of patent 
     costs as delineated by a license or assignment agreement, to 
     the inventor or coinventors, if the inventor's or 
     coinventor's rights are directly assigned to the United 
     States.
       (B) A laboratory director may provide appropriate 
     incentives, from royalties or other payments, to laboratory 
     employees who are not an inventor of such inventions but who 
     substantially increased the technical value of the 
     inventions.
       (C) The laboratory shall retain the royalties and other 
     payments received from an invention until the laboratory 
     makes payments to employees of a laboratory under 
     subparagraph (A) or (B).
       (2) The balance of the royalties or other payments shall be 
     transferred by the agency to its laboratories, with the 
     majority share of the royalties or other payments from any 
     invention going to the laboratory where the invention 
     occurred. The royalties or other payments so transferred to 
     any laboratory may be used or obligated by that laboratory 
     during the fiscal year in which they are received or during 
     the 2 succeeding fiscal years--
       (A) to reward scientific, engineering, and technical 
     employees of the laboratory, including developers of 
     sensitive or classified technology, regardless of whether the 
     technology has commercial applications;
       (B) to further scientific exchange among the laboratories 
     of the agency;
       (C) for education and training of employees consistent with 
     the research and development missions and objectives of the 
     agency or laboratory, and for other activities that increase 
     the potential for transfer of the technology of the 
     laboratories of the agency;
       (D) for payment of expenses incidental to the 
     administration and licensing of intellectual property by the 
     agency or laboratory with respect to inventions made at that 
     laboratory, including the fees or other costs for the 
     services of other agencies, persons, or organizations for 
     intellectual property management and licensing services; or
       (E) for scientific research and development consistent with 
     the research and development missions and objectives of the 
     laboratory.
       (3) All royalties or other payments retained by the 
     laboratory after payments have been made pursuant to 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) that are unobligated and unexpended at 
     the end of the second fiscal year succeeding the fiscal year 
     in which the royalties and other payments were received shall 
     be paid into the Treasury of the United States.
       (b) Treatment of Payments to Employees.--
       (1) In general.--Any payment made to an employee under the 
     pilot program shall be in addition to the regular pay of the 
     employee and to any other awards made to the employee, and 
     shall not affect the entitlement of the employee to any 
     regular pay, annuity, or award to which the employee is 
     otherwise entitled or for which the employee is otherwise 
     eligible or limit the amount thereof. Any payment made to an 
     inventor as such shall continue after the inventor leaves the 
     laboratory.
       (2) Cumulative payments.--(A) Cumulative payments made 
     under the pilot program while the inventor is still employed 
     at the laboratory shall not exceed $500,000 per year to any 
     one person, unless the Secretary concerned (as defined in 
     section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code) approves a 
     larger award.
       (B) Cumulative payments made under the pilot program after 
     the inventor leaves the laboratory shall not exceed $150,000 
     per year to any one person, unless the head of the agency 
     approves a larger award (with the excess over $150,000 being 
     treated as an agency award to a former employee under section 
     4505 of title 5, United States Code).
       (c) Invention Management Services.--Under the pilot 
     program, a laboratory receiving royalties or other payments 
     as a result of invention management services performed for 
     another Federal agency or laboratory under section 207 of 
     title 35, United States Code, may retain such royalties or 
     payments to the extent required to offset payments to 
     inventors under subparagraph (A) of subsection (a)(1), costs 
     and expenses incurred under subparagraph (D) of subsection 
     (a)(2), and the cost of foreign patenting and maintenance for 
     any invention of the other agency. All royalties and other 
     payments remaining after offsetting the payments to 
     inventors, costs, and expenses described in the preceding 
     sentence shall be transferred to the agency for which the 
     services were performed, for distribution in accordance with 
     subsection (a)(2).
       (d) Certain Assignments.--Under the pilot program, if the 
     invention involved was one assigned to the laboratory--
       (1) by a contractor, grantee, or participant, or an 
     employee of a contractor, grantee, or participant, in an 
     agreement or other arrangement with the agency; or
       (2) by an employee of the agency who was not working in the 
     laboratory at the time the invention was made,
     the agency unit that was involved in such assignment shall be 
     considered to be a laboratory for purposes of this section.
       (e) Sunset.--The pilot program under this section shall 
     terminate 5 years after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.

     SEC. 234. COMPETITIVE ACQUISITION PLAN FOR LOW PROBABILITY OF 
                   DETECTION DATA LINK NETWORKS.

       (a) Plan Required.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the Vice Chairman 
     of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Air 
     Force, develop a plan to procure a secure, low probability of 
     detection data link network capability with the ability to 
     effectively operate in hostile jamming environments while 
     preserving the low observable characteristics of the relevant 
     platforms, between existing and planned--
       (1) fifth-generation combat aircraft;
       (2) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft;
       (3) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft 
     and appropriate support aircraft and other network nodes for 
     command, control, communications, intelligence, surveillance, 
     and reconnaissance purposes; and
       (4) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft 
     and their associated network-enabled precision weapons.
       (b) Additional Plan Requirements.--The plan required by 
     subsection (a) shall include--
       (1) nonproprietary and open systems approaches compatible 
     with the Rapid Capabilities Office Open Mission Systems 
     initiative of the Air Force and the Future Airborne 
     Capability Environment initiative of the Navy;
       (2) a competitive acquisition process, to include 
     comparative flight demonstrations in realistic airborne 
     environments; and
       (3) low risk and affordable solutions with minimal impact 
     or changes to existing host platforms, and minimal overall 
     integration costs.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than February 15, 2018, the Under 
     Secretary and the Vice Chairman shall provide to the 
     congressional defense committees a potential acquisition 
     strategy and briefing on the plan developed under subsection 
     (a).
       (d) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for operations and maintenance for the Office of the 
     Secretary of the Air Force and the Office of the Secretary of 
     the Navy, not more than 85 percent may be obligated or 
     expended until a period of 15 days has elapsed following the 
     date on which the Under Secretary and Vice Chairman submits 
     to the congressional defense committees the plan required by 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 235. CLARIFICATION OF SELECTION DATES FOR PILOT PROGRAM 
                   FOR THE ENHANCEMENT OF THE RESEARCH, 
                   DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION CENTERS OF 
                   THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       Section 233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``the enactment of 
     this Act'' both places it appears and inserting ``such 
     submittal''; and
       (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``propose and 
     implement'' and inserting ``submit to the Assistant Secretary 
     concerned a proposal on, and implement,''.

     SEC. 236. REQUIREMENT FOR A PLAN TO BUILD A PROTOTYPE FOR A 
                   NEW GROUND COMBAT VEHICLE FOR THE ARMY.

       (a) In General.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a plan to build a prototype for a new 
     ground combat vehicle for the Army.
       (b) Contents.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) A description of how the Secretary intends to exploit 
     the latest enabling component technologies that have the 
     potential to dramatically change basic combat vehicle design 
     and improve lethality, protection, mobility, range, and 
     sustainment, including an analysis of capabilities of the 
     most advanced foreign ground combat vehicles and whether any 
     have characteristics that should inform the development of 
     the Army's prototype vehicle, including whether any United 
     States allies or partners have advanced capabilities that 
     could be directly incorporated in the prototype.
       (2) The schedule, cost, key milestones, and leadership plan 
     to rapidly design and build the prototype ground combat 
     vehicle.

     SEC. 237. PLAN FOR SUCCESSFULLY FIELDING THE INTEGRATED AIR 
                   AND MISSILE DEFENSE BATTLE COMMAND SYSTEM.

       (a) Plan Required.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a plan to successfully field a suitable, 
     survivable, and effective Integrated Air and Missile Defense 
     Battle Command System program.
       (b) Limitation.--Not more than 50 percent of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act for research, 
     development, test, and evaluation may be obligated by the 
     Secretary of the

[[Page H8721]]

     Army for the Army Integrated Air and Missile Defense and the 
     Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System 
     until the date on which the plan is submitted under 
     subsection (a).

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Military Aviation and Installation Assurance Siting 
              Clearinghouse.
Sec. 312. Energy performance goals and master plan.
Sec. 313. Payment to Environmental Protection Agency of stipulated 
              penalty in connection with Umatilla Chemical Depot, 
              Oregon.
Sec. 314. Payment to Environmental Protection Agency of stipulated 
              penalty in connection with Longhorn Army Ammunition 
              Plant, Texas.
Sec. 315. Department of the Army cleanup and removal of petroleum, oil, 
              and lubricant associated with the Prinz Eugen.
Sec. 316. Centers for Disease Control study on health implications of 
              per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances contamination in 
              drinking water.
Sec. 317. Sentinel Landscapes Partnership.
Sec. 318. Report on release of radium or radioactive material into the 
              groundwater near the industrial reserve plant in 
              Bethpage, New York.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 321. Reauthorization of multi-trades demonstration project.
Sec. 322. Increased percentage of sustainment funds authorized for 
              realignment to restoration and modernization at each 
              installation.
Sec. 323. Guidance regarding use of organic industrial base.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Quarterly reports on personnel and unit readiness.
Sec. 332. Biennial report on core depot-level maintenance and repair 
              capability.
Sec. 333. Annual report on personnel, training, and equipment needs of 
              non-federalized National Guard.
Sec. 334. Annual report on military working dogs used by the Department 
              of Defense.
Sec. 335. Report on effects of climate change on Department of Defense.
Sec. 336. Report on optimization of training in and management of 
              special use airspace.
Sec. 337. Plan for modernized, dedicated Department of the Navy 
              adversary air training enterprise.
Sec. 338. Updated guidance regarding biennial core report.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Explosive safety board.
Sec. 342. Servicewomen's commemorative partnerships.
Sec. 343. Limitation on availability of funds for advanced skills 
              management software system of the Navy.
Sec. 344. Cost-benefit analysis of uniform specifications for Afghan 
              military or security forces.
Sec. 345. Temporary installation reutilization authority for arsenals, 
              depots, and plants.
Sec. 346. Comprehensive plan for sharing depot-level maintenance best 
              practices.
Sec. 347. Pilot program for operation and maintenance budget 
              presentation.
Sec. 348. Repurposing and reuse of surplus Army firearms.
Sec. 349. Department of the Navy marksmanship awards.
Sec. 350. Civilian training for National Guard pilots and sensor 
              operator aircrews of MQ-9 unmanned aerial vehicles.
Sec. 351. Training for National Guard personnel on wildfire response.
Sec. 352. Modification of the Second Division Memorial.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

     SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and 
     maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
     4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

     SEC. 311. MILITARY AVIATION AND INSTALLATION ASSURANCE SITING 
                   CLEARINGHOUSE.

       (a) Codification.--Chapter 7 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 183 the following 
     new section:

     ``Sec. 183a. Military Aviation and Installation Assurance 
       Clearinghouse for review of mission obstructions

       ``(a) Establishment.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish a Military Aviation and Installation Assurance 
     Siting Clearinghouse (in this section referred to as the 
     `Clearinghouse').
       ``(2) The Clearinghouse shall be--
       ``(A) organized under the authority, direction, and control 
     of an Assistant Secretary of Defense designated by the 
     Secretary; and
       ``(B) assigned such personnel and resources as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to carry out this section.
       ``(b) Functions.--(1) The Clearinghouse shall coordinate 
     Department of Defense review of applications for energy 
     projects filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant 
     to section 44718 of title 49 and received by the Department 
     of Defense from the Secretary of Transportation. In 
     performing such coordination, the Clearinghouse shall provide 
     procedures to ensure affected local military installations 
     are consulted.
       ``(2) The Clearinghouse shall accelerate the development of 
     planning tools necessary to determine the acceptability to 
     the Department of Defense of proposals included in an 
     application for an energy project submitted pursuant to such 
     section.
       ``(3) The Clearinghouse shall perform such other functions 
     as the Secretary of Defense assigns.
       ``(c) Review of Proposed Actions.--(1) Not later than 60 
     days after receiving from the Secretary of Transportation a 
     proper application for an energy project under section 44718 
     of title 49 that may have an adverse impact on military 
     operations and readiness, the Clearinghouse shall conduct a 
     preliminary review of such application. The review shall--
       ``(A) assess the likely scope, duration, and level of risk 
     of any adverse impact of such energy project on military 
     operations and readiness; and
       ``(B) identify any feasible and affordable actions that 
     could be taken by the Department, the developer of such 
     energy project, or others to mitigate the adverse impact and 
     to minimize risks to national security while allowing the 
     energy project to proceed with development.
       ``(2) If the Clearinghouse finds under paragraph (1) that 
     an energy project will have an adverse impact on military 
     operations and readiness, the Clearinghouse shall issue to 
     the applicant a notice of presumed risk that describes the 
     concerns identified by the Department in the preliminary 
     review and requests a discussion of possible mitigation 
     actions.
       ``(3) At the same time that the Clearinghouse issues to the 
     applicant a notice of presumed risk under paragraph (2), the 
     Clearinghouse shall provide the same notice to the governor 
     of the State in which the project is located and request that 
     the governor provide the Clearinghouse any comments the 
     governor believes of relevance to the application. The 
     Secretary of Defense shall consider the comments of the 
     governor in the Secretary's evaluation of whether the project 
     presents an unacceptable risk to the national security of the 
     United States and shall include the comments with the finding 
     provided to the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to 
     section 44718(f) of title 49.
       ``(4) The Clearinghouse shall develop, in coordination with 
     other departments and agencies of the Federal Government, an 
     integrated review process to ensure timely notification and 
     consideration of energy projects filed with the Secretary of 
     Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49 that may 
     have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness.
       ``(5) The Clearinghouse shall establish procedures for the 
     Department of Defense for the coordinated consideration of 
     and response to a request for a review received from another 
     Federal agency, a State government, an Indian tribal 
     government, a local government, a landowner, or the developer 
     of an energy project, including guidance to personnel at each 
     military installation in the United States on how to initiate 
     such procedures and ensure a coordinated Department response.
       ``(6) The Clearinghouse shall develop procedures for 
     conducting early outreach to parties carrying out energy 
     projects that could have an adverse impact on military 
     operations and readiness and to clearly communicate to such 
     parties actions being taken by the Department of Defense 
     under this section. The procedures shall provide for filing 
     by such parties of a project area and preliminary project 
     layout at least one year before expected construction of any 
     project proposed within a military training route or within 
     line-of-sight of any air route surveillance radar or airport 
     surveillance radar operated or used by the Department of 
     Defense in order to provide adequate time for analysis and 
     negotiation of mitigation options. Material marked as 
     proprietary or competition sensitive by a party filing for 
     this preliminary review shall be protected from public 
     release by the Department of Defense.
       ``(d) Comprehensive Review.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
     shall develop a comprehensive strategy for addressing the 
     impacts upon the military of projects filed with the 
     Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of 
     title 49.
       ``(2) In developing the strategy required by paragraph (1), 
     the Secretary shall--
       ``(A) assess the magnitude of interference posed by 
     projects filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant 
     to section 44718 of title 49;
       ``(B) solely for the purpose of informing preliminary 
     reviews under subsection (c)(1) and early outreach efforts 
     under subsection (c)(5), identify distinct geographic areas 
     selected as proposed locations for projects filed, or for 
     projects that are reasonably expected to be filed in the near 
     future, with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant to 
     section 44718 of title 49 where the Secretary of Defense can 
     demonstrate such projects could have an adverse impact on 
     military operations and readiness, including military 
     training routes, and categorize the risk of adverse impact in 
     such areas;
       ``(C) develop procedures for the initial identification of 
     such geographic areas identified under subparagraph (B), to 
     include a process to provide notice and seek public comment 
     prior to making a final designation of the geographic areas, 
     including maps of the area and the basis for identification;
       ``(D) develop procedures to periodically review and modify, 
     consistent with the notice and public comment process under 
     subparagraph (C), geographic areas identified under 
     subparagraph

[[Page H8722]]

     (B) and to solicit and identify additional geographic areas 
     as appropriate;
       ``(E) at the conclusion of the notice and public comment 
     period conducted under subparagraph (C), make a final finding 
     on the designation of a geographic area of concern or 
     delegate the authority to make such finding to a Deputy 
     Secretary of Defense, an Under Secretary of Defense, or a 
     Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense; and
       ``(F) specifically identify feasible and affordable long-
     term actions that may be taken to mitigate adverse impacts of 
     projects filed, or which may be filed in the future, with the 
     Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of 
     title 49, on military operations and readiness, including--
       ``(i) investment priorities of the Department of Defense 
     with respect to research and development;
       ``(ii) modifications to military operations to accommodate 
     applications for such projects;
       ``(iii) recommended upgrades or modifications to existing 
     systems or procedures by the Department of Defense;
       ``(iv) acquisition of new systems by the Department and 
     other departments and agencies of the Federal Government and 
     timelines for fielding such new systems; and
       ``(v) modifications to the projects for which such 
     applications are filed with the Secretary of Transportation 
     pursuant to section 44718 of title 49, including changes in 
     size, location, or technology.
       ``(3) The Clearinghouse shall make access to data 
     reflecting geographic areas identified under subparagraph (B) 
     of paragraph (2) and reviewed and modified under subparagraph 
     (C) of such paragraph available online.
       ``(e) Department of Defense Finding of Unacceptable Risk.--
     (1) The Secretary of Defense may not object to an energy 
     project filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant 
     to section 44718 of title 49, except in a case in which the 
     Secretary of Defense determines, after giving full 
     consideration to mitigation actions identified pursuant to 
     this section, that such project, in isolation or cumulatively 
     with other projects, would result in an unacceptable risk to 
     the national security of the United States. The Secretary of 
     Defense's finding of unacceptable risk to national security 
     shall be transmitted to the Secretary of Transportation for 
     inclusion in the report required under section 44718(b)(2) of 
     title 49.
       ``(2)(A) Not later than 30 days after making a finding of 
     unacceptable risk under paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees, 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on 
     such finding and the basis for such finding. Such report 
     shall include an explanation of the operational impact that 
     led to the finding, a discussion of the mitigation options 
     considered, and an explanation of why the mitigation options 
     were not feasible or did not resolve the conflict. The report 
     may include a classified annex. Unclassified reports shall 
     also be provided to the project proponent. The Secretary of 
     Defense may provide public notice through the Federal 
     Register of the finding.
       ``(B) The Secretary of Defense shall notify the appropriate 
     State agency of a finding made under paragraph (1).
       ``(3) The Secretary of Defense may only delegate the 
     responsibility for making a finding of unacceptable risk 
     under paragraph (1) to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, an 
     under secretary of defense, or a deputy under secretary of 
     defense.
       ``(4) The Clearinghouse shall develop procedures for making 
     a finding of unacceptable risk, including with respect to how 
     to implement cumulative effects analysis. Such procedures 
     shall be subject to public comment prior to finalization.
       ``(f) Authority to Accept Contributions of Funds.--The 
     Secretary of Defense is authorized to request and accept a 
     voluntary contribution of funds from an applicant for a 
     project filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant 
     to section 44718 of title 49. Amounts so accepted shall 
     remain available until expended for the purpose of offsetting 
     the cost of measures undertaken by the Secretary of Defense 
     to mitigate adverse impacts of such a project on military 
     operations and readiness or to conduct studies of potential 
     measures to mitigate such impacts.
       ``(g) Effect of Department of Defense Hazard Assessment.--
     An action taken pursuant to this section shall not be 
     considered to be a substitute for any assessment or 
     determination required of the Secretary of Transportation 
     under section 44718 of title 49.
       ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `adverse impact on military operations and 
     readiness' means any adverse impact upon military operations 
     and readiness, including flight operations, research, 
     development, testing, and evaluation, and training, that is 
     demonstrable and is likely to impair or degrade the ability 
     of the armed forces to perform their warfighting missions.
       ``(2) The term `energy project' means a project that 
     provides for the generation or transmission of electrical 
     energy.
       ``(3) The term `landowner' means a person that owns a fee 
     interest in real property on which a proposed energy project 
     is planned to be located.
       ``(4) The term `military installation' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 2801(c)(4) of this title.
       ``(5) The term `military readiness' includes any training 
     or operation that could be related to combat readiness, 
     including testing and evaluation activities.
       ``(6) The term `military training route' means a training 
     route developed as part of the Military Training Route 
     Program, carried out jointly by the Federal Aviation 
     Administration and the Secretary of Defense, for use by the 
     armed forces for the purpose of conducting low-altitude, 
     high-speed military training.
       ``(7) The term `unacceptable risk to the national security 
     of the United States' means the construction, alteration, 
     establishment, or expansion, or the proposed construction, 
     alteration, establishment, or expansion, of a structure or 
     sanitary landfill, that the Secretary of Defense can 
     demonstrate would--
       ``(A) endanger safety in air commerce directly related to 
     the activities of the Department of Defense;
       ``(B) interfere with the efficient use of the navigable 
     airspace directly related to the activities of the Department 
     of Defense; or
       ``(C) significantly impair or degrade the capability of the 
     Department of Defense to conduct training, research, 
     development, testing, and evaluation, and operations or to 
     maintain military readiness.''.
       (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Repeal of existing provision.--Section 358 of the Ike 
     Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011 (49 U.S.C. 44718 note) is repealed.
       (2) Cross-reference in title 49, united states code.--
     Section 44718(f) of title 49, United States Code, is amended 
     by inserting ``and in accordance with section 183a(e) of 
     title 10'' after ``conducted under subsection (b)''.
       (3) Reference to definitions.--Section 44718(g) of title 
     49, United States Code, is amended by striking ``211.3 of 
     title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on 
     January 6, 2014'' both places it appears and inserting 
     ``183a(g) of title 10''.
       (4) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
     the beginning of chapter 7 of title 10 is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 183 the 
     following new item:

``183a. Military Aviation and Installation Assurance Siting 
              Clearinghouse for review of mission obstructions.''.
       (c) Applicability of Existing Rules and Regulations.--
     Notwithstanding the amendments made by subsection (a), any 
     rule or regulation promulgated to carry out section 358 of 
     the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2011 (49 U.S.C. 44718 note), that is in effect on the 
     day before the date of the enactment of this Act shall 
     continue in effect and apply to the extent such rule or 
     regulation is consistent with the authority under section 
     183a of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection 
     (a), until such rule or regulation is otherwise amended or 
     repealed.
       (d) Deadline for Initial Identification of Geographic 
     Areas.--The initial identification of geographic areas under 
     section 183a(d)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, as 
     added by subsection (a), shall be completed not later than 
     180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (e) Conforming Amendment Regarding Critical Military-use 
     Airspace Areas.--Section 44718 of title 49, United States 
     Code, as amended by subsection (b)(3), is further amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(g) Special Rule for Identified Geographic Areas.--In the 
     case of a proposed structure to be located within a 
     geographic area identified under section 183a(d)(2)(B) of 
     title 10, the Secretary of Transportation may not issue a 
     determination pursuant to this section until the Secretary of 
     Defense issues a finding under section 183a(e) of title 10, 
     the Secretary of Defense advises the Secretary of 
     Transportation that no finding under section 183a(e) of title 
     10 will be forthcoming, or 180 days have lapsed since the 
     project was filed with the Secretary of Transportation 
     pursuant to this section, whichever occurs first.''.

     SEC. 312. ENERGY PERFORMANCE GOALS AND MASTER PLAN.

       Section 2911(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the 
     end the following: ``, the future demand for energy, and the 
     requirements for the use of energy'';
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``reduce the future 
     demand and the requirements for the use of energy'' and 
     inserting ``enhance energy resilience to ensure the 
     Department of Defense has the ability to prepare for and 
     recover from energy disruptions that affect mission assurance 
     on military installations''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(13) Opportunities to leverage financing provided by a 
     non-Department entity to address installation energy 
     needs.''.

     SEC. 313. PAYMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OF 
                   STIPULATED PENALTY IN CONNECTION WITH UMATILLA 
                   CHEMICAL DEPOT, OREGON.

       (a) Authority to Transfer Funds.--
       (1) Transfer amount.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     transfer an amount of not more than $125,000 to the Hazardous 
     Substance Superfund established under subchapter A of chapter 
     98 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Any such transfer 
     shall be made without regard to section 2215 of title 10, 
     United States Code.
       (2) Source of funds.--Any transfer under subsection (a) 
     shall be made using funds authorized to be appropriated by 
     this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for 
     Base Realignment and Closure, Army.
       (b) Purpose of Transfer.--A transfer under subsection (a) 
     shall be for the purpose of satisfying a stipulated penalty 
     assessed by the Environmental Protection Agency in the 
     settlement agreement approved by the Army on July 14,

[[Page H8723]]

     2016, against the Umatilla Chemical Depot, Oregon under the 
     Federal Facility Agreement between the Army and the 
     Environmental Protection Agency dated September 19, 1989.
       (c) Acceptance of Payment.--If the Secretary of the Army 
     makes a transfer under subsection (a), the Administrator of 
     the Environmental Protection Agency shall accept the amount 
     transferred as payment in full of the penalty referred to in 
     subsection (b).

     SEC. 314. PAYMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OF 
                   STIPULATED PENALTY IN CONNECTION WITH LONGHORN 
                   ARMY AMMUNITION PLANT, TEXAS.

       (a) Authority to Transfer Funds.--
       (1) Transfer amount.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     transfer an amount of not more than $1,185,000 to the 
     Hazardous Substance Superfund established under subchapter A 
     of chapter 98 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Any such 
     transfer shall be made without regard to section 2215 of 
     title 10, United States Code.
       (2) Source of funds.--Any transfer under subsection (a) 
     shall be made using funds authorized to be appropriated by 
     this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for 
     Environmental Restoration, Army.
       (b) Purpose of Transfer.--A transfer under subsection (a) 
     shall be for the purpose of satisfying a stipulated penalty 
     assessed by the Environmental Protection Agency on April 5, 
     2013, against Longhorn Army Ammunition Plant, Texas, under 
     the Federal Facility Agreement for Longhorn Army Ammunition 
     Plant, which was entered into between the Army and the 
     Environmental Protection Agency in 1991.
       (c) Acceptance of Payment.--If the Secretary of the Army 
     makes a transfer under subsection (a), the Administrator of 
     the Environmental Protection Agency shall accept the amount 
     transferred as payment in full of the penalty referred to in 
     subsection (b).

     SEC. 315. DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY CLEANUP AND REMOVAL OF 
                   PETROLEUM, OIL, AND LUBRICANT ASSOCIATED WITH 
                   THE PRINZ EUGEN.

       (a) Authority.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
     the Department of the Army may by used for all necessary 
     expenses for the removal and cleanup of petroleum, oil, and 
     lubricants associated with the heavy cruiser Prinz Eugen, 
     which was transferred from the United States to the Republic 
     of the Marshall Islands in 1986.
       (b) Certification.--If the Secretary of the Army does not 
     use the authority provided by subsection (a), the Secretary 
     shall submit a certification to the congressional defense 
     committees not later than September 30, 2018, that the 
     petroleum, oil, and lubricants associated with the heavy 
     cruiser Prinz Eugen do not adversely impact safety or 
     military operations.

     SEC. 316. CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL STUDY ON HEALTH 
                   IMPLICATIONS OF PER- AND POLYFLUOROALKYL 
                   SUBSTANCES CONTAMINATION IN DRINKING WATER.

       (a) Study on Human Health Implications.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services, acting through the Centers for Disease Control and 
     Prevention and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
     Registry, and, as appropriate, the National Institute of 
     Environmental Health Sciences, and in consultation with the 
     Department of Defense, shall--
       (A) commence a study on the human health implications of 
     per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) contamination in 
     drinking water, ground water, and any other sources of water 
     and relevant exposure pathways, including the cumulative 
     human health implications of multiple types of PFAS 
     contamination at levels above and below health advisory 
     levels;
       (B) not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of 
     this Act (or 7 years after such date of enactment after 
     providing notice to the appropriate congressional committees 
     of the need for the delay)--
       (i) complete such study and make any appropriate 
     recommendations; and
       (ii) submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
     committees on the results of such study; and
       (C) not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, and annually thereafter until submission of the 
     report under subparagraph (B)(ii), submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report on the progress of the 
     study.
       (2) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act for the Department of Defense, $7,000,000 shall 
     be available to carry out the study under this subsection.
       (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Heath, Education, Labor, and Pensions, 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works, and the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
       (C) the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives.
       (b) Exposure Assessment.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services, acting through the Centers for Disease Control and 
     Prevention and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
     Registry, and, as appropriate, the National Institute of 
     Environmental Health Sciences, and in consultation with the 
     Department of Defense, shall conduct an exposure assessment 
     of no less than 8 current or former domestic military 
     installations known to have PFAS contamination in drinking 
     water, ground water, and any other sources of water and 
     relevant exposure pathways.
       (2) Contents.--The exposure assessment required under this 
     subsection shall--
       (A) include--
       (i) for each military installation covered under the 
     exposure assessment, a statistical sample to be determined by 
     the Secretary of Health and Human Services in consultation 
     with the relevant State health departments; and
       (ii) bio-monitoring for assessing the contamination 
     described in paragraph (1); and
       (B) produce findings, which shall be--
       (i) used to help design the study described in subsection 
     (a)(1)(A); and
       (ii) released to the appropriate congressional committees 
     not later than 1 year after the conclusion of such exposure 
     assessment.
       (3) Timing.--The exposure assessment required under this 
     subsection shall--
       (A) begin not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act; and
       (B) conclude not later than 2 years after such date of 
     enactment.
       (c) Coordination With Other Agencies.--The Agency for Toxic 
     Substance and Disease Registry may, as necessary, use staff 
     and other resources from other Federal agencies in carrying 
     out the study under subsection (a) and the assessment under 
     subsection (b).
       (d) No Effect on Regulatory Process.--The study and 
     assessment conducted under this section shall not interfere 
     with any regulatory processes of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency, including determinations of maximum contaminant 
     levels.

     SEC. 317. SENTINEL LANDSCAPES PARTNERSHIP.

       (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
     Secretary of the Interior, may establish and carry out a 
     program to preserve sentinel landscapes. The program shall be 
     known as the ``Sentinel Landscapes Partnership''.
       (b) Designation of Sentinel Landscapes.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of 
     the Interior, may, as the Secretaries determine appropriate, 
     collectively designate one or more sentinel landscapes.
       (c) Coordination of Activities.--The Secretaries may 
     coordinate actions between their departments and with other 
     agencies and private organizations to more efficiently work 
     together for the mutual benefit of conservation, working 
     lands, and national defense, and to encourage private 
     landowners to engage in voluntary land management and 
     conservation activities that contribute to the sustainment of 
     military installations, ranges, and airspace.
       (d) Priority Consideration.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
     and the Secretary of the Interior may give to any eligible 
     landowner or agricultural producer within a designated 
     sentinel landscape priority consideration for participation 
     in any easement, grant, or assistance programs administered 
     by that Secretary's department. Participation in any such 
     program pursuant to this section shall be voluntary.
       (e) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Military installation.--The term ``military 
     installation'' has the same meaning as provided in section 
     670(1) of title 16, United States Code.
       (2) State-owned national guard installation.--The term 
     ``State-owned National Guard installation'' has the same 
     meaning as provided in section 670(3) of title 16, United 
     States Code.
       (3) Sentinel landscape.--The term ``sentinel landscape'' 
     means a landscape-scale area encompassing--
       (A) one or more military installations or state-owned 
     National Guard installations and associated airspace; and
       (B) the working or natural lands that serve to protect and 
     support the rural economy, the natural environment, outdoor 
     recreation, and the national defense test and training 
     missions of the military- or State-owned National Guard 
     installation or installations.
       (f) Conforming Amendment.--Section 312(b) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
     113-66; 127 Stat. 729; 10 U.S.C. 2684a note) is repealed.

     SEC. 318. REPORT ON RELEASE OF RADIUM OR RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL 
                   INTO THE GROUNDWATER NEAR THE INDUSTRIAL 
                   RESERVE PLANT IN BETHPAGE, NEW YORK.

       Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress 
     an addendum to the report submitted to Congress in June 2017 
     entitled ``2017 Annual Report For Groundwater Impacts at 
     Naval Weapons Industrial Reserve Plant Bethpage, New York'' 
     that would detail any releases by the Department of Defense 
     of radium or radioactive material into the groundwater within 
     a 75-mile radius of the industrial reserve plant in Bethpage, 
     New York.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

     SEC. 321. REAUTHORIZATION OF MULTI-TRADES DEMONSTRATION 
                   PROJECT.

       Section 338 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 U.S.C. 5013 note), 
     as most recently amended by section 321 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
     112-239; 126 Stat. 1694) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
     ``2023''; and
       (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2024''.

     SEC. 322. INCREASED PERCENTAGE OF SUSTAINMENT FUNDS 
                   AUTHORIZED FOR REALIGNMENT TO RESTORATION AND 
                   MODERNIZATION AT EACH INSTALLATION.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may authorize an 
     installation commander to realign up to 7.5 percent of an 
     installation's sustainment funds to restoration and 
     modernization.
       (b) Sunset.--The authority under subsection (a) shall 
     expire at the close of September 30, 2022.
       (c) Definitions.--The terms ``sustainment'', 
     ``restoration'', and ``modernization'' have the meanings 
     given the terms in the Department of Defense Financial 
     Management Regulation.

[[Page H8724]]

  


     SEC. 323. GUIDANCE REGARDING USE OF ORGANIC INDUSTRIAL BASE.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall establish clear and 
     prescriptive guidance on the process for conducting make-or-
     buy analyses for Army requirements, including the use of the 
     organic industrial base.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

     SEC. 331. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PERSONNEL AND UNIT READINESS.

       (a) Modification and Improvement.--Section 482 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by striking ``Each report'' and inserting ``The reports 
     for the first and third quarters of a calendar year''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
     reports for the second and fourth quarters of a calendar year 
     shall contain the information required by subsection (j).'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``and Remedial 
     Actions'';
       (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
     ``Each report'' and inserting ``A report for the second or 
     fourth quarter of a calendar year'';
       (C) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (D) by striking paragraph (2); and
       (E) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2);
       (3) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``Each report'' and 
     inserting ``A report for the second or fourth quarter of a 
     calendar year'';
       (4) in subsection (e), by striking ``Each report'' and 
     inserting ``A report for the second or fourth quarter of a 
     calendar year'';
       (5) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``Each report'' and 
     inserting ``A report for the second or fourth quarter of a 
     calendar year'';
       (6) in subsection (g)(1), by striking ``Each report'' and 
     inserting ``A report for the second or fourth quarter of a 
     calendar year''; and
       (7) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(j) Remedial Actions.--A report for the first or third 
     quarter of a calendar year shall include--
       ``(1) a description of the mitigation plans of the 
     Secretary to address readiness shortfalls and operational 
     deficiencies identified in the report submitted for the 
     preceding calendar quarter; and
       ``(2) for each such shortfall or deficiency, a timeline for 
     resolution, the cost necessary for such resolution, the 
     mitigation strategy the Department will employ until the 
     resolution is in place, and any legislative remedies 
     required.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 117 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Quarterly''and 
     inserting ``Semi-annual''; and
       (B) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``quarterly'' and 
     inserting ``semi-annual''; and
       (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``each quarter'' and 
     inserting ``semi-annually''.

     SEC. 332. BIENNIAL REPORT ON CORE DEPOT-LEVEL MAINTENANCE AND 
                   REPAIR CAPABILITY.

       Section 2464(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(4) Any workload shortfalls at any work breakdown 
     structure category designated as a lower-level category 
     pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4151.20, or any 
     successor instruction.
       ``(5) A description of any workload executed at a category 
     designated as a first-level category pursuant to such 
     Instruction, or any successor instruction, that could be used 
     to mitigate shortfalls in similar categories.
       ``(6) A description of any progress made on implementing 
     mitigation plans developed pursuant to paragraph (3).
       ``(7) A description of core capability requirements and 
     corresponding workloads at the first level category.
       ``(8) In the case of any shortfall that is identified, a 
     description of the shortfall and an identification of the 
     subcategory of the work breakdown structure in which the 
     shortfall occurred.
       ``(9) In the case of any work breakdown structure category 
     designated as a special interest item or other pursuant to 
     such Instruction, or any successor instruction, an 
     explanation for such designation.
       ``(10) Whether the core depot-level maintenance and repair 
     capability requirements described in the report submitted 
     under this subsection for the preceding fiscal year have been 
     executed.''.

     SEC. 333. ANNUAL REPORT ON PERSONNEL, TRAINING, AND EQUIPMENT 
                   NEEDS OF NON-FEDERALIZED NATIONAL GUARD.

       (a) Annual Report Required.--Section 10504 of title 10, 
     United States Code, as amended by section 1051, is further 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Report'' and 
     inserting ``Report on State of the National Guard''; and
       (B) by striking ``The report'' and inserting the following:
       ``(2) The annual report required by paragraph (1)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Annual Report on Non-federalized Service National 
     Guard Personnel, Training, and Equipment Requirements.--(1) 
     Not later than January 31 of each of calendar years 2018 
     through 2020, the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to 
     the recipients described in paragraph (3) a report that 
     identifies the personnel, training, and equipment required by 
     the non-Federalized National Guard--
       ``(A) to support civilian authorities in connection with 
     natural and man-made disasters during the covered period; and
       ``(B) to carry out prevention, protection, mitigation, 
     response, and recovery activities relating to such disasters 
     during the covered period.
       ``(2) In preparing each report under paragraph (1), the 
     Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall--
       ``(A) consult with the chief executive of each State, the 
     Council of Governors, and other appropriate civilian 
     authorities;
       ``(B) collect and validate information from each State 
     relating to the personnel, training, and equipment 
     requirements described in paragraph (1);
       ``(C) set forth separately the personnel, training, and 
     equipment requirements for--
       ``(i) each of the emergency support functions of the 
     National Response Framework; and
       ``(ii) each of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
     regions;
       ``(D) assess core civilian capability gaps relating to 
     natural and man-made disasters, as identified by States in 
     submissions to the Department of Homeland Security;
       ``(E) take into account threat and hazard identifications 
     and risk assessments of the Department of Defense, the 
     Department of Homeland Security, and the States; and
       ``(F) assess the budgets of each State to support the 
     personnel, training, and equipment requirements of the non-
     Federalized National Guard.
       ``(3) The annual report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted to the following officials:
       ``(A) The congressional defense committees, the Committee 
     on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
     the Senate.
       ``(B) The Secretary of Defense.
       ``(C) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
       ``(D) The Council of Governors.
       ``(E) The Secretary of the Army.
       ``(F) The Secretary of the Air Force.
       ``(G) The Commander of the United States Northern Command.
       ``(H) The Commander of the United States Pacific Command.
       ``(I) The Commander of the United States Cyber Command.
       ``(4) In this subsection, the term `covered period' means 
     the fiscal year beginning after the date on which a report is 
     submitted under paragraph (1).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is 
     amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 10504. Chief of National Guard Bureau: annual 
       reports''.

       (2) Table of contents.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 1011 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 10504 and 
     inserting the following:

``10504. Chief of National Guard Bureau: annual reports.''.

     SEC. 334. ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY WORKING DOGS USED BY THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Capacity.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
     Executive Agent for Military Working Dogs (hereinafter in 
     this section referred to as the ``Executive Agent''), shall--
       (1) identify the number of military working dogs required 
     to fulfill the various missions of the Department of Defense 
     for which such dogs are used, including force protection, 
     facility and check point security, and explosives and drug 
     detection;
       (2) take such steps as are practicable to ensure an 
     adequate number of military working dog teams are available 
     to meet and sustain the mission requirements identified in 
     paragraph (1);
       (3) ensure that the Department's needs and performance 
     standards with respect to military working dogs are readily 
     available to dog breeders and trainers; and
       (4) coordinate with other Federal, State, and local 
     agencies, nonprofit organizations, universities, and private 
     sector entities, as appropriate, to increase the training 
     capacity for military working dog teams.
       (b) Military Working Dog Procurement.--The Secretary, 
     acting through the Executive Agent, shall work to ensure that 
     military working dogs are procured as efficiently as possible 
     and at the best value to the Government, while maintaining 
     the necessary level of quality and encouraging increased 
     domestic breeding.
       (c) Annual Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until 
     September 30, 2021, the Secretary, acting through the 
     Executive Agent, shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report on the procurement and retirement of 
     military working dogs for the fiscal year preceding the 
     fiscal year during which the report is submitted. Each report 
     under this subsection shall include the following for the 
     fiscal year covered by the report:
       (1) The number of military working dogs procured, by 
     source, by each military department or Defense Agency.
       (2) The cost of procuring military working dogs incurred by 
     each military department or Defense Agency.
       (3) The number of domestically-bred and sourced military 
     working dogs procured by each military department or Defense 
     Agency, including a list of vendors, their location, cost, 
     and the quantity of dogs procured from each vendor.
       (4) The number of non-domestically-bred military working 
     dogs procured from non-domestic sources by each military 
     department or Defense Agency, including a list of vendors, 
     their location, cost, and the quantity of dogs procured from 
     each vendor.

[[Page H8725]]

       (5) The cost of procuring pre-trained and green dogs for 
     force protection, facility and checkpoint security, and 
     improvised explosive device, other explosives, and drug 
     detection.
       (6) An analysis of the procurement practices of each 
     military department or Defense Agency that limit market 
     access for domestic canine vendors and breeders.
       (7) The total cost of procuring domestically-bred military 
     working dogs versus the total cost of procuring dogs from 
     non-domestic sources.
       (8) The total number of domestically-bred dogs and the 
     number of dogs from foreign sources procured by each military 
     department or Defense Agency and the number and percentage of 
     those dogs that are ultimately deployed for their intended 
     use.
       (9) An explanation for any significant difference in the 
     cost of procuring military working dogs from different 
     sources.
       (10) An estimate of the number of military working dogs 
     expected to retire annually and an identification of the 
     primary cause of the retirement of such dogs.
       (11) An identification of the final disposition of military 
     working dogs no longer in service.
       (d) Military Working Dog Defined.--For purposes of this 
     section, the term ``military working dog'' means a dog used 
     in any official military capacity, as defined by the 
     Secretary of Defense.

     SEC. 335. REPORT ON EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Secretary of Defense James Mattis has stated: ``It is 
     appropriate for the Combatant Commands to incorporate drivers 
     of instability that impact the security environment in their 
     areas into their planning.''.
       (2) Secretary of Defense James Mattis has stated: ``I agree 
     that the effects of a changing climate -- such as increased 
     maritime access to the Arctic, rising sea levels, 
     desertification, among others -- impact our security 
     situation.''.
       (3) Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Joseph Dunford 
     has stated: ``It's a question, once again, of being forward 
     deployed, forward engaged, and be in a position to respond to 
     the kinds of natural disasters that I think we see as a 
     second or third order effect of climate change.''.
       (4) Former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates has stated: 
     ``Over the next 20 years and more, certain pressures-
     population, energy, climate, economic, environmental-could 
     combine with rapid cultural, social, and technological change 
     to produce new sources of deprivation, rage, and 
     instability.''.
       (5) Former Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army Gordon Sullivan 
     has stated: ``Climate change is a national security issue. We 
     found that climate instability will lead to instability in 
     geopolitics and impact American military operations around 
     the world.''.
       (6) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence 
     (ODNI) has stated: ``Many countries will encounter climate-
     induced disruptions--such as weather-related disasters, 
     drought, famine, or damage to infrastructure--that stress 
     their capacity to respond, cope with, or adapt. Climate-
     related impacts will also contribute to increased migration, 
     which can be particularly disruptive if, for example, demand 
     for food and shelter outstrips the resources available to 
     assist those in need.''.
       (7) The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has stated: 
     ``DOD links changes in precipitation patterns with potential 
     climate change impacts such as changes in the number of 
     consecutive days of high or low precipitation as well as 
     increases in the extent and duration of droughts, with an 
     associated increase in the risk of wildfire. . . this may 
     result in mission vulnerabilities such as reduced live-fire 
     training due to drought and increased wildfire risk.''.
       (8) A three-foot rise in sea levels will threaten the 
     operations of more than 128 United States military sites, and 
     it is possible that many of these at-risk bases could be 
     submerged in the coming years.
       (9) As global temperatures rise, droughts and famines can 
     lead to more failed states, which are breeding grounds of 
     extremist and terrorist organizations.
       (10) In the Marshall Islands, an Air Force radar 
     installation built on an atoll at a cost of $1,000,000,000 is 
     projected to be underwater within two decades.
       (11) In the western United States, drought has amplified 
     the threat of wildfires, and floods have damaged roads, 
     runways, and buildings on military bases.
       (12) In the Arctic, the combination of melting sea ice, 
     thawing permafrost, and sea-level rise is eroding shorelines, 
     which is damaging radar and communication installations, 
     runways, seawalls, and training areas.
       (13) In the Yukon Training Area, units conducting artillery 
     training accidentally started a wildfire despite observing 
     the necessary practices during red flag warning conditions.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) climate change is a direct threat to the national 
     security of the United States and is impacting stability in 
     areas of the world both where the United States Armed Forces 
     are operating today, and where strategic implications for 
     future conflict exist;
       (2) there are complexities in quantifying the cost of 
     climate change on mission resiliency, but the Department of 
     Defense must ensure that it is prepared to conduct operations 
     both today and in the future and that it is prepared to 
     address the effects of a changing climate on threat 
     assessments, resources, and readiness; and
       (3) military installations must be able to effectively 
     prepare to mitigate climate damage in their master planning 
     and infrastructure planning and design, so that they might 
     best consider the weather and natural resources most 
     pertinent to them.
       (c) Report.--
       (1) Report required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives a report on 
     vulnerabilities to military installations and combatant 
     commander requirements resulting from climate change over the 
     next 20 years.
       (2) Elements.--The report on vulnerabilities to military 
     installations and combatant commander requirements required 
     by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
       (A) A list of the ten most vulnerable military 
     installations within each service based on the effects of 
     rising sea tides, increased flooding, drought, 
     desertification, wildfires, thawing permafrost, and any other 
     categories the Secretary determines necessary.
       (B) An overview of mitigations that may be necessary to 
     ensure the continued operational viability and to increase 
     the resiliency of the identified vulnerable military 
     installations and the cost of such mitigations.
       (C) A discussion of the climate-change related effects on 
     the Department, including the increase in the frequency of 
     humanitarian assistance and disaster relief missions and the 
     theater campaign plans, contingency plans, and global posture 
     of the combatant commanders.
       (D) An overview of mitigations that may be necessary to 
     ensure mission resiliency and the cost of such mitigations.
       (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 336. REPORT ON OPTIMIZATION OF TRAINING IN AND 
                   MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL USE AIRSPACE.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bases, Ranges, 
     and Airspace Directorate of the Air Force and the 
     Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall 
     submit to Congress a report on optimization of training in 
     and management of special use airspace that includes the 
     following:
       (1) Best practices for the management of special use 
     airspace, including practices that--
       (A) result in cost savings relating to training;
       (B) increase training opportunities for airmen;
       (C) increase joint use of such airspace;
       (D) improve coordination with respect to such airspace 
     with--
       (i) the Federal Aviation Administration;
       (ii) Indian tribes;
       (iii) airports, civilian aircraft operators, and local 
     communities; and
       (iv) private landowners and other stakeholders; or
       (E) improve the coordination of large force exercises, 
     including the use of waivers or other exceptional measures.
       (2) An assessment of whether the capacity of ranges, 
     including limitations on flight operations, is adequate to 
     meet current and future training needs.
       (3) An assessment of whether the establishment of a 
     dedicated squadron for the purpose of coordinating the use of 
     a special use airspace at the installation located in that 
     airspace would improve the achievement of the objectives 
     described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1).
       (4) An assessment of the processes in place to consider, 
     evaluate, and mitigate special use airspace impacts to the 
     public right of transit through navigable airspace and the 
     safe and efficient use of the National Airspace System by 
     commercial and general aviation.
       (5) Recommendations for improving the management and 
     utilization of special use airspace to meet the objectives 
     described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1) 
     and to address any gaps in capacity identified under 
     paragraph (2).
       (b) Special Use Airspace Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``special use airspace'' means special use airspace 
     designated under part 73 of title 14, Code of Federal 
     Regulations.

     SEC. 337. PLAN FOR MODERNIZED, DEDICATED DEPARTMENT OF THE 
                   NAVY ADVERSARY AIR TRAINING ENTERPRISE.

       (a) Plan Required.--The Chief of Naval Operations and the 
     Commandant of the Marine Corps shall develop a plan--
       (1) to establish a modernized, dedicated adversary air 
     training enterprise for the Department of the Navy in order 
     to--
       (A) maximize warfighting effectiveness and synergies of the 
     current and planned fourth and fifth generation combat air 
     forces through optimized training and readiness; and
       (B) harness intelligence analysis, emerging live-virtual-
     constructive training technologies, range infrastructure 
     improvements, and results of experimentation and prototyping 
     efforts in operational concept development;
       (2) to explore all available opportunities to challenge the 
     combat air forces of the Department of the Navy with threat 
     representative adversary-to-friendly aircraft ratios, known 
     and emerging adversary tactics, and high-fidelity replication 
     of threat airborne and ground capabilities; and
       (3) to execute all means available to achieve training and 
     readiness goals and objectives of the Navy and Marine Corps 
     with demonstrated institutional commitment to the adversary 
     air training enterprise through the application of Department 
     of the Navy policy and resources, partnering with the other 
     Armed Forces, allies, and friends, and employing the use of 
     industry contracted services.
       (b) Plan Elements.--The plan required under subsection (a) 
     shall include enterprise goals, objectives, concepts of 
     operations, phased implementation timelines, analysis of 
     expected readiness improvements, prioritized resource 
     requirements, and such other matters as the Chief of Naval 
     Operations and Commandant of the Marine Corps consider 
     appropriate.

[[Page H8726]]

       (c) Submittal of Plan and Briefing.--Not later than March 
     1, 2018, the Chief of Naval Operations and Commandant of the 
     Marine Corps shall provide to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     written plan and briefing on the plan required under 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 338. UPDATED GUIDANCE REGARDING BIENNIAL CORE REPORT.

       To ensure that the biennial core reporting procedures of 
     the Department of Defense align with the requirements of 
     section 2464 of title 10, United States Code, and that each 
     reporting agency provides accurate and complete information, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall direct the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics to update 
     the Department of Defense Guidance, in particular Department 
     of Defense Instruction 4151.20, to require future biennial 
     core reports include instructions to the reporting agencies 
     on how to--
       (1) report additional depot workload performed that has not 
     been identified as a core requirement;
       (2) accurately capture inter-service workload;
       (3) calculate shortfalls; and
       (4) estimate the cost of planned workload.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

     SEC. 341. EXPLOSIVE SAFETY BOARD.

       (a) Modification and Improvement of Ammunition Storage 
     Board.--Section 172 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``The Secretaries of the military 
     departments'' and inserting ``(a) In General.--The Secretary 
     of Defense'';
       (2) by inserting ``that includes members'' after ``joint 
     board'';
       (3) by striking ``selected by them'' and inserting 
     ``selected by the Secretaries of the military departments,'';
       (4) by inserting ``military'' before ``officers'';
       (5) by inserting ``designated as the chair and voting 
     members of the board for each military department'' after 
     ``officers'';
       (6) by inserting ``and other'' before ``civilian 
     officers'';
       (7) by striking ``or both'' and inserting ``as necessary'';
       (8) by striking ``keep informed on stored'' and inserting 
     ``provide oversight on storage and transportation of''; and
       (9) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Oversight by Secretaries of the Military 
     Departments.--The Secretaries of the military departments 
     shall provide research, development, test, evaluation, and 
     manufacturing oversight for energetic materials supporting 
     military requirements.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 172 of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``Ammunition 
     storage'' and inserting ``Explosive safety''.
       (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 7 of such title is amended by striking 
     the item relating to section 172 and inserting the following 
     new item:

``172. Explosive safety board.''.

     SEC. 342. SERVICEWOMEN'S COMMEMORATIVE PARTNERSHIPS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may provide not 
     more than $5,000,000 in financial support for the 
     acquisition, installation, and maintenance of exhibits, 
     facilities, historical displays, and programs at military 
     service memorials and museums that highlight the role of 
     women in the military. The Secretary may enter into a 
     contract, partnership, or grant with a non-profit 
     organization for the purpose of performing such acquisition, 
     installation, and maintenance.
       (b) Purposes.--The contracts, partnerships, or grants shall 
     be limited to serving the purposes of--
       (1) preserving the history of the 3,000,000 women who have 
     served in the United States Armed Forces;
       (2) managing an archive of artifacts, historic memorabilia, 
     and documents related to servicewomen;
       (3) maintaining a women veterans' oral history program; and
       (4) conducting other educational programs related to women 
     in service.

     SEC. 343. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ADVANCED 
                   SKILLS MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE SYSTEM OF THE NAVY.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense may be 
     obligated for the enhancement of the advanced skills 
     management software system of the Navy until a period of 60 
     days has elapsed following the date on which Secretary of the 
     Navy makes the submission required under subsection (b)(3).
       (b) Briefing and Certification.--The Secretary of the Navy 
     shall--
       (1) provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on any 
     enhancements that are needed for the advanced skills 
     management software system of the Navy;
       (2) after providing the briefing under paragraph (1), issue 
     a request for information for such enhancements in accordance 
     with part 15.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and
       (3) submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives--
       (A) the results of the request for information issued under 
     paragraph (2); and
       (B) a written certification that--
       (i) as part of the request for information, the Secretary 
     solicited information on commercially available off-the-shelf 
     software solutions that may be used to enhance the advanced 
     skills management software system of the Navy; and
       (ii) the Secretary has considered using such solutions.
       (c) Advanced Skills Management Software System Defined.--In 
     this section, the term ``advanced skills management software 
     system'' means a software application designed to--
       (1) identify job task requirements for Navy personnel;
       (2) assist in determining the proficiencies of such 
     personnel;
       (3) document qualifications and certifications of such 
     personnel; and
       (4) track the technical training completed by Navy aviation 
     maintenance personnel.

     SEC. 344. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF UNIFORM SPECIFICATIONS FOR 
                   AFGHAN MILITARY OR SECURITY FORCES.

       Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     whenever the Secretary of Defense enters into a contract for 
     the provision of uniforms for Afghan military or security 
     forces, the Secretary shall conduct a cost-benefit analysis 
     of the uniform specification for the Afghan military or 
     security forces uniform. Such analysis shall determine--
       (1) whether there is a more effective alternative uniform 
     specification, considering both operational environment and 
     cost, available to the Afghan military or security forces;
       (2) the efficacy of the existing pattern compared to other 
     alternatives (both proprietary and non-proprietary patterns); 
     and
       (3) the costs and feasibility of transitioning the uniforms 
     of the Afghan military or security forces to a pattern owned 
     by the United States, using existing excess inventory where 
     available, and acquiring the rights to the Spec4ce Forest 
     pattern.

     SEC. 345. TEMPORARY INSTALLATION REUTILIZATION AUTHORITY FOR 
                   ARSENALS, DEPOTS, AND PLANTS.

       (a) Modified Authority.--In the case of a military 
     manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant, the Secretary of the 
     Army may authorize up to 10 leases and contracts per fiscal 
     year under section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, for 
     a term of up to 25 years, notwithstanding subsection (b)(1) 
     of such section, if the Secretary determines that a lease or 
     contract of that duration will promote the national defense 
     for the purpose of--
       (1) helping to maintain the viability of the military 
     manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant and any military 
     installations on which it is located;
       (2) eliminating, or at least reducing, the cost of 
     Government ownership of the military manufacturing arsenal, 
     depot, or plant, including the costs of operations and 
     maintenance, the costs of environmental remediation, and 
     other costs; and
       (3) leveraging private investment at the military 
     manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant through long-term 
     facility use contracts, property management contracts, 
     leases, or other agreements that support and advance the 
     preceding purposes.
       (b) Delegation and Review Process.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army may delegate the 
     authority provided by this section to the commander of the 
     major subordinate command of the Army that has responsibility 
     for the military manufacturing arsenal, depot, or plant or, 
     if part of a larger military installation, the installation 
     as a whole. The commander may approve a lease or contract 
     under such authority on a case-by-case basis or a class 
     basis.
       (2) Notice of approval.--Upon any approval of a lease or 
     contract by a commander pursuant to a delegation of authority 
     under paragraph (1), the commander shall notify the Chief of 
     the Army Corps of Engineers and Congress of the approval.
       (3) Review period.--Any lease or contract that is approved 
     utilizing the delegation authority under paragraph (1) is 
     subject to a 90-day hold period so that the Chief of the Army 
     Corps of Engineers may review the lease or contract pursuant 
     to paragraph (4).
       (4) Disposition of review.--If the Chief of the Army Corps 
     of Engineers disapproves of a contract or lease submitted for 
     review under paragraph (3), the agreement shall be null and 
     void upon transmittal by the Chief of the Army Corps of 
     Engineers to the delegating authority of a written 
     disapproval, including a justification for such disapproval, 
     within the 90-day hold period. If no such disapproval is 
     transmitted within the 90-day hold period, the agreement 
     shall be deemed approved.
       (5) Approval of revised agreement.--If, not later than 60 
     days after receiving a disapproval under paragraph (4), the 
     delegating authority submits to the Chief of the Army Corps 
     of Engineers a new contract or lease that addresses the 
     concerns of the Chief of the Army Corps of Engineers outlined 
     in such disapproval, the new contract or lease shall be 
     deemed approved unless the Chief of the Army Corps of 
     Engineers transmits to the delegating authority a disapproval 
     of the new contract or lease within 30 days of such 
     submission.
       (c) Military Manufacturing Arsenal, Depot, or Plant 
     Defined.--In this section, the term ``military manufacturing 
     arsenal, depot, or plant'' means a Government-owned, 
     Government-operated defense plant of the Army that 
     manufactures weapons, weapon components, or both.
       (d) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall 
     terminate at the close of September 30, 2020. Any contracts 
     entered into on or before such date shall continue in effect 
     according to their terms.

     SEC. 346. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR SHARING DEPOT-LEVEL 
                   MAINTENANCE BEST PRACTICES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     comprehensive plan for the sharing of best practices for 
     depot-level maintenance among the military services.

[[Page H8727]]

       (b) Elements.--The comprehensive plan required under 
     subsection (a) shall cover the sharing of best practices with 
     regard to--
       (1) programing and scheduling;
       (2) core capability requirements;
       (3) workload;
       (4) personnel management, development, and sustainment;
       (5) induction, duration, efficiency, and completion 
     metrics;
       (6) parts, supply, tool, and equipment management;
       (7) capital investment and manufacturing and production 
     capability; and
       (8) inspection and quality control.

     SEC. 347. PILOT PROGRAM FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BUDGET 
                   PRESENTATION.

       (a) In General.--Along with the budget for fiscal years 
     2019, 2020, and 2021 submitted by the President pursuant to 
     section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the 
     Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
     departments shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
     of the Senate and the House of Representatives an annex for 
     the following Operation and Maintenance sub-activity groups 
     (SAG):
       (1) For the Army:
       (A) SAG 111 - Maneuver Units.
       (B) SAG 123 - Land Forces Depot Maintenance.
       (C) SAG 131 - Base Operations Support.
       (D) SAG 322 - Flight Training.
       (2) For the Navy:
       (A) SAG 1A5A - Aircraft Depot Maintenance.
       (B) SAG 1B1B - Mission and Other Ship Operations.
       (C) SAG 1B4B - Ship Depot Maintenance.
       (D) SAG BSS1 - Base Operating Support.
       (3) For the Marine Corps:
       (A) SAG 1A1A - Operational Forces.
       (B) SAG 1A3A - Depot Maintenance.
       (C) SAG 1B1B - Field Logistics.
       (D) SAG BSS1 - Base Operating Support.
       (4) For the Air Force:
       (A) SAG 011A - Primary Combat Forces.
       (B) SAG 011Y - Flying Hour Program.
       (C) SAG 011Z - Base Support.
       (D) SAG 021M - Depot Maintenance.
       (b) Elements.--The annex required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) A summary by appropriation account with subtotals for 
     Department of Defense components.
       (2) A summary of each appropriation account by budget 
     activity, activity group, and sub-activity group with budget 
     activity and activity group subtotals and an appropriation 
     total.
       (3) A detailed sub-activity group by program element and 
     expense aggregate listing in budget activity and activity 
     group sequence.
       (4) A rollup document by sub-activity group with 
     accompanying program element funding with the PB-61 program 
     element tags included.
       (5) A summary of each depot maintenance facility with 
     information on workload, work force, sources of funding, and 
     expenses similar to the exhibit on Mission Funded Naval 
     Shipyards included with the 2012 Navy Budget Justification.
       (6) A summary of contractor logistics support for each 
     program element, including a measure of workload and unit 
     cost.
       (c) Formatting.--The annex required under subsection (a) 
     shall be formatted in accordance with relevant Department of 
     Defense financial management regulations that provide 
     guidance for budget submissions to Congress.

     SEC. 348. REPURPOSING AND REUSE OF SURPLUS ARMY FIREARMS.

       (a) Required Transfer.--Not later than 90 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, and subject to subsection 
     (c), the Secretary of the Army shall transfer to a suitable 
     organic facility all excess firearms, related spare parts and 
     components, small arms ammunition, and ammunition components 
     currently stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, 
     Alabama, that are no longer actively issued for military 
     service and that are otherwise prohibited from commercial 
     sale, or distribution, under Federal law.
       (b) Repurposing and Reuse.--The items specified for 
     transfer under subsection (a) shall be melted and repurposed 
     for military use as determined by the Secretary of the Army, 
     including--
       (1) the reforging of new firearms or their components; and
       (2) force protection barriers and security bollards.
       (c) Items Exempt From Transfer.--M-1 Garand, caliber .45 
     M1911/M1911A1 pistols, caliber .22 rimfire rifles, and such 
     additional items as designated by the Secretary in the annual 
     report required under subsection (d) are not subject to the 
     transfer requirement under subsection (a).
       (d) Annual Report.--Not later than 5 days after the budget 
     of the President for a fiscal year is submitted to Congress 
     under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the 
     Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Director of 
     the Defense Logistics Agency, shall submit to the Committees 
     on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report specifying additional excess 
     firearms, related spare parts and components, small arms 
     ammunition, and ammunition components designated as no longer 
     actively issued for military service and that are otherwise 
     prohibited from commercial sale, or distribution, under 
     Federal law. The Secretary of the Army shall designate these 
     items to either be added to the transfer list for the 
     purposes described under subsection (b) or the list of items 
     exempted under subsection (c). The report may not include the 
     redesignation or change in status of items previously 
     designated for transfer or exemption pursuant to subsections 
     (a) or (c).
       (e) Actions Pursuant to Annual Report.--The Secretary of 
     the Army may not take any action to transfer items designated 
     in the report submitted under subsection (d) until the date 
     of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for the fiscal year following the year such report is 
     submitted. Upon enactment of such Act, the Secretary shall 
     transfer or exempt the items so designated.

     SEC. 349. DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY MARKSMANSHIP AWARDS.

       Section 40728 of title 36, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(i) Authorized Navy Transfers.--(1) Notwithstanding 
     subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of the Navy may 
     transfer to the corporation, in accordance with the 
     procedures prescribed in this subchapter, M-1 Garand and 
     caliber .22 rimfire rifles held within the inventories of the 
     United States Navy and the United States Marine Corps and 
     stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Alabama, or 
     Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane, Indiana, as of the date 
     of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2018.
       ``(2) The items specified for transfer under paragraph 
     (1)--
       ``(A) shall be used as awards for competitors in 
     marksmanship competitions held by the United States Marine 
     Corps or the United States Navy and may not be resold; and
       ``(B) shall be rendered inoperable prior to award and 
     transfer to marksmanship competitors.''.

     SEC. 350. CIVILIAN TRAINING FOR NATIONAL GUARD PILOTS AND 
                   SENSOR OPERATOR AIRCREWS OF MQ-9 UNMANNED 
                   AERIAL VEHICLES.

       (a) Contracts for Training.--Subject to subsection (c), the 
     Secretary of the Air Force may enter into one or more 
     contracts with appropriate civilian entities in order to 
     provide flying or operating training for Air National Guard 
     pilots and sensor operator aircrew members in the MQ-9 
     unmanned aerial vehicle if the Secretary of the Air Force 
     determines that--
       (1) Air Force training units lack sufficient capacity to 
     train such pilots or sensor operator aircrew members for 
     initial qualification in the MQ-9 unmanned aerial vehicle;
       (2) pilots or sensor operator aircrew members of Air 
     National Guard units require continuation training in order 
     to remain current and qualified in the MQ-9 unmanned aerial 
     vehicle;
       (3) non-combat continuation training in the MQ-9 unmanned 
     aerial vehicle is necessary for such pilots or sensor 
     operator aircrew members to achieve required levels of flying 
     or operating proficiency; and
       (4) such training for such pilots or sensor operator 
     aircrew members is necessary in order to meet requirements 
     for the Air National Guard to provide pilots and sensor 
     operator aircrew members qualified in the MQ-9 unmanned 
     aerial vehicle for operations on active duty and in State 
     status.
       (b) Nature of Training Under Contracts.--Any training 
     provided pursuant to a contract under subsection (a) shall 
     incorporate a level of instruction that is equivalent to the 
     instruction in the MQ-9 unmanned aerial vehicle provided to 
     pilots and sensor operator aircrew members at Air Force 
     training units, as determined by the Secretary of the Air 
     Force.
       (c) Authority Contingent on Certification and Notice and 
     Wait Period.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not use the 
     authority in subsection (a) unless and until the Secretary of 
     the Air Force certifies to the congressional defense 
     committees in writing, 90 days in advance of executing such 
     authority provided in subsection (a), that the use of the 
     authority is necessary to provide required flying or 
     operating training for Air National Guard pilots and sensor 
     operator aircrew members in the MQ-9 unmanned aerial vehicle.

     SEC. 351. TRAINING FOR NATIONAL GUARD PERSONNEL ON WILDFIRE 
                   RESPONSE.

       The Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Air 
     Force may, in consultation with the Chief of the National 
     Guard Bureau, provide support for training of appropriate 
     personnel of the National Guard on wildfire response and 
     prevention, with preference given to military installations 
     with the highest wildfire suppression need.

     SEC. 352. MODIFICATION OF THE SECOND DIVISION MEMORIAL.

       (a) Authorization.--The Second Indianhead Division 
     Association, Inc., Scholarship and Memorials Foundation, an 
     organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 
     501(a) of that Code, may place additional commemorative 
     elements or engravings on the raised platform or stone work 
     of the existing Second Division Memorial located in 
     President's Park, between 17th Street Northwest and 
     Constitution Avenue in the District of Columbia, to further 
     honor the members of the Second Infantry Division who have 
     given their lives in service to the United States.
       (b) Application of Commemorative Works Act.--Chapter 89 of 
     title 40, United States Code (commonly known as the 
     ``Commemorative Works Act''), shall apply to the design and 
     placement of the commemorative elements or engravings 
     authorized under subsection (a).
       (c) Funding.--Federal funds may not be used for 
     modifications of the Second Division Memorial authorized 
     under subsection (a).

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
              levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
              reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).

[[Page H8728]]

Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2018 limitation on number of non-dual status 
              technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
              active duty for operational support.
Sec. 416. Number of members of the National Guard on full-time duty in 
              support of the reserves within the National Guard Bureau.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

     SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.

       The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty 
     personnel as of September 30, 2018, as follows:
       (1) The Army, 483,500.
       (2) The Navy, 327,900.
       (3) The Marine Corps, 186,000.
       (4) The Air Force, 325,100.

     SEC. 402. REVISIONS IN PERMANENT ACTIVE DUTY END STRENGTH 
                   MINIMUM LEVELS.

       Section 691(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking paragraphs (1) through (4) and inserting the 
     following new paragraphs:
       ``(1) For the Army, 483,500.
       ``(2) For the Navy, 327,900.
       ``(3) For the Marine Corps, 186,000.
       ``(4) For the Air Force, 325,100.''.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

     SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.

       (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths 
     for Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as 
     of September 30, 2018, as follows:
       (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 343,500.
       (2) The Army Reserve, 199,500.
       (3) The Navy Reserve, 59,000.
       (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
       (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 106,600.
       (6) The Air Force Reserve, 69,800.
       (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
       (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed 
     by subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve 
     component shall be proportionately reduced by--
       (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to 
     serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component 
     which are on active duty (other than for training) at the end 
     of the fiscal year; and
       (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
     organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
     component who are on active duty (other than for training or 
     for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their 
     consent at the end of the fiscal year.
       (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual 
     members of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are 
     released from active duty during any fiscal year, the end 
     strength prescribed for such fiscal year for the Selected 
     Reserve of such reserve component shall be increased 
     proportionately by the total authorized strengths of such 
     units and by the total number of such individual members.

     SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN 
                   SUPPORT OF THE RESERVES.

       Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the 
     reserve components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of 
     September 30, 2018, the following number of Reserves to be 
     serving on full-time active duty or full-time duty, in the 
     case of members of the National Guard, for the purpose of 
     organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or 
     training the reserve components:
       (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,155.
       (2) The Army Reserve, 16,261.
       (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,101.
       (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,261.
       (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,260.
       (6) The Air Force Reserve, 3,588.

     SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL 
                   STATUS).

       The minimum number of military technicians (dual status) as 
     of the last day of fiscal year 2018 for the reserve 
     components of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding 
     section 129 of title 10, United States Code) shall be the 
     following:
       (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
     22,294.
       (2) For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
       (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 
     19,135.
       (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 8,880.

     SEC. 414. FISCAL YEAR 2018 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF NON-DUAL 
                   STATUS TECHNICIANS.

       (a) Limitations.--
       (1) National guard.--The number of non-dual status 
     technicians employed by the National Guard as of September 
     30, 2018, may not exceed the following:
       (A) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 0.
       (B) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 0.
       (2) Army reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
     technicians employed by the Army Reserve as of September 30, 
     2018, may not exceed 0.
       (3) Air force reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
     technicians employed by the Air Force Reserve as of September 
     30, 2018, may not exceed 0.
       (b) Non-dual Status Technicians Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``non-dual status technician'' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 10217(a) of title 10, United States 
     Code.

     SEC. 415. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO 
                   BE ON ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

       During fiscal year 2018, the maximum number of members of 
     the reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving 
     at any time on full-time operational support duty under 
     section 115(b) of title 10, United States Code, is the 
     following:
       (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
       (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
       (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
       (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
       (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
       (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

     SEC. 416. NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD ON FULL-
                   TIME DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE RESERVES WITHIN THE 
                   NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU.

       (a) Army National Guard of the United States.--As of the 
     end of fiscal year 2019, and as of the end of each fiscal 
     year thereafter, the number of members of the Army National 
     Guard of the United States serving with the National Guard 
     Bureau on full-time duty for the purpose of organizing, 
     administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the 
     reserve components may not exceed the number equal to six 
     percent of the total number of members of the Army National 
     Guard of the United States authorized for service on full-
     time duty for that purpose in that fiscal year.
       (b) Air National Guard of the United States.--As of the end 
     of fiscal year 2019, and as of the end of each fiscal year 
     thereafter, the number of members of the Air National Guard 
     of the United States serving with the National Guard Bureau 
     on full-time duty for the purpose of organizing, 
     administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the 
     reserve components may not exceed the number equal to six 
     percent of the total number of members of the Air National 
     Guard of the United States authorized for service on full-
     time duty for that purpose in that fiscal year.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

     SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the 
     use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
     the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise 
     provided for, for military personnel, as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4401.
       (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
     appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other 
     authorization of appropriations (definite or indefinite) for 
     such purpose for fiscal year 2018.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Modification of deadline for submittal by officers of written 
              communications to promotion selection boards on matters 
              of importance to their selection.
Sec. 502. Clarification to exception for removal of officers from list 
              of officers recommended for promotion after 18 months 
              without appointment.
Sec. 503. Modification of requirement for specification of number of 
              officers who may be recommended for early retirement by a 
              Selective Early Retirement Board.
Sec. 504. Extension of service-in-grade waiver authority for voluntary 
              retirement of certain general and flag officers for 
              purposes of enhanced flexibility in officer personnel 
              management.
Sec. 505. Inclusion of Principal Military Deputy to the Assistant 
              Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, and 
              Logistics among officers subject to repeal of statutory 
              specification of general officer grade.
Sec. 506. Clarification of effect of repeal of statutory specification 
              of general or flag officer grade for various positions in 
              the Armed Forces.
Sec. 507. Standardization of authorities in connection with repeal of 
              statutory specification of general officer grade for the 
              Dean of the Academic Board of the United States Military 
              Academy and the Dean of the Faculty of the United States 
              Air Force Academy.
Sec. 508. Flexibility in promotion of officers to positions of Staff 
              Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps and 
              Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy or Air Force.
Sec. 509. Grandfathering of retired grade of Assistant Judge Advocates 
              General of the Navy as of repeal of statutory 
              specification of general and flag officers grades in the 
              Armed Forces.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Equal treatment of orders to serve on active duty under 
              sections 12304a and 12304b of title 10, United States 
              Code.
Sec. 512. Service credit for cyberspace experience or advanced 
              education upon original appointment as a commissioned 
              officer.
Sec. 513. Consolidation of authorities to order members of the reserve 
              components of the Armed Forces to perform duty.
Sec. 514. Pilot program on use of retired senior enlisted members of 
              the Army National Guard as Army National Guard 
              recruiters.

[[Page H8729]]

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

   Part I--Matters Relating to Discharge and Correction of Military 
                                Records

Sec. 520. Consideration of additional medical evidence by Boards for 
              the Correction of Military Records and liberal 
              consideration of evidence relating to post-traumatic 
              stress disorder or traumatic brain injury.
Sec. 521. Public availability of information related to disposition of 
              claims regarding discharge or release of members of the 
              Armed Forces when the claims involve sexual assault.
Sec. 522. Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge 
              of members who are victims of sex-related offenses.
Sec. 523. Training requirements for members of boards for the 
              correction of military records and personnel who 
              investigate claims of retaliation.
Sec. 524. Pilot program on use of video teleconferencing technology by 
              boards for the correction of military records and 
              discharge review boards.

               Part II--Other General Service Authorities

Sec. 526. Modification of basis for extension of period for enlistment 
              in the Armed Forces under the Delayed Entry Program.
Sec. 527. Reauthorization of authority to order retired members to 
              active duty in high-demand, low-density assignments.
Sec. 528. Notification of members of the Armed Forces undergoing 
              certain administrative separations of potential 
              eligibility for veterans benefits.
Sec. 529. Extension of authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
              to provide for the conduct of medical disability 
              examinations by contract physicians.
Sec. 530. Provision of information on naturalization through military 
              service.

          Subtitle D--Military Justice and Other Legal Issues

Sec. 531. Clarifying amendments related to the Uniform Code of Military 
              Justice reform by the Military Justice Act of 2016.
Sec. 532. Enhancement of effective prosecution and defense in courts-
              martial and related matters.
Sec. 533. Punitive article under the Uniform Code of Military Justice 
              on wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual 
              images or visual images of sexually explicit conduct.
Sec. 534. Garnishment to satisfy judgment rendered for physically, 
              sexually, or emotionally abusing a child.
Sec. 535. Sexual assault prevention and response training for all 
              individuals enlisted in the Armed Forces under a delayed 
              entry program.
Sec. 536. Special Victims' Counsel training regarding the unique 
              challenges often faced by male victims of sexual assault.
Sec. 537. Inclusion of information in annual SAPRO reports regarding 
              military sexual harassment and incidents involving 
              nonconsensual distribution of private sexual images.
Sec. 538. Inclusion of information in annual SAPRO reports regarding 
              sexual assaults committed by a member of the Armed Forces 
              against the member's spouse or other family member.

   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

Sec. 541. Element in preseparation counseling for members of the Armed 
              Forces on assistance and support services for caregivers 
              of certain veterans through the Department of Veterans 
              Affairs.
Sec. 542. Improved employment assistance for members of the Army, Navy, 
              Air Force, and Marine Corps and veterans.
Sec. 543. Limitation on release of military service academy graduates 
              to participate in professional athletics.
Sec. 544. Two-year extension of suicide prevention and resilience 
              program for the National Guard and Reserves.
Sec. 545. Annual certifications related to Ready, Relevant Learning 
              initiative of the Navy.
Sec. 546. Authority to expand eligibility for the United States 
              Military Apprenticeship Program.
Sec. 547. Limitation on availability of funds for attendance of Air 
              Force enlisted personnel at Air Force officer 
              professional military education in-residence courses.
Sec. 548. Lieutenant Henry Ossian Flipper Leadership Scholarships.
Sec. 549. Pilot programs on appointment in the excepted service in the 
              Department of Defense of physically disqualified former 
              cadets and midshipmen.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             Part I--Defense Dependents' Education Matters

Sec. 551. Assistance to schools with military dependent students.
Sec. 552. Transitions of military dependent students from Department of 
              Defense dependent schools to other schools and among 
              schools of local educational agencies.
Sec. 553. Report on educational opportunities in science, technology, 
              engineering, and mathematics for children who are 
              dependents of members of the Armed Forces.

               Part II--Military Family Readiness Matters

Sec. 555. Codification of authority to conduct family support programs 
              for immediate family members of members of the Armed 
              Forces assigned to special operations forces.
Sec. 556. Reimbursement for State licensure and certification costs of 
              a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces arising from 
              relocation to another State.
Sec. 557. Temporary extension of extended period of protections for 
              members of uniformed services relating to mortgages, 
              mortgage foreclosure, and eviction.
Sec. 558. Enhancing military childcare programs and activities of the 
              Department of Defense.
Sec. 559. Direct hire authority for Department of Defense for childcare 
              services providers for Department child development 
              centers.
Sec. 560. Pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework 
              facilities for military spouses on military installations 
              outside the United States.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 561. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to Garlin M. 
              Conner for acts of valor during World War II.
Sec. 562. Authorization for award of Distinguished-Service Cross to 
              Specialist Frank M. Crary for acts of valor in Vietnam.

            Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

Sec. 571. Analysis and report on accompanied and unaccompanied tours of 
              duty in remote locations with high family support costs.
Sec. 572. Review and reports on policies for regular and reserve 
              officer career management.
Sec. 573. Review and report on effects of personnel requirements and 
              limitations on the availability of members of the 
              National Guard for the performance of funeral honors duty 
              for veterans.
Sec. 574. Review and report on authorities for the employment, use, and 
              status of National Guard and Reserve technicians.
Sec. 575. Assessment and report on expanding and contracting for 
              childcare services of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 576. Review and report on compensation provided childcare services 
              providers of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 577. Comptroller General of the United States assessment and 
              report on the Office of Complex Investigations within the 
              National Guard Bureau.
Sec. 578. Modification of submittal date of Comptroller General of the 
              United States report on integrity of the Department of 
              Defense whistleblower program.

                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

Sec. 581. Expansion of United States Air Force Institute of Technology 
              enrollment authority to include civilian employees of the 
              homeland security industry.
Sec. 582. Conditional designation of Explosive Ordnance Disposal Corps 
              as a basic branch of the Army.
Sec. 583. Designation of office within Office of the Secretary of 
              Defense to oversee use of food assistance programs by 
              members of the Armed Forces on active duty.

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

     SEC. 501. MODIFICATION OF DEADLINE FOR SUBMITTAL BY OFFICERS 
                   OF WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS TO PROMOTION 
                   SELECTION BOARDS ON MATTERS OF IMPORTANCE TO 
                   THEIR SELECTION.

       (a) Officers on Active-duty List.--Section 614(b) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the day'' 
     and inserting ``10 calendar days''.
       (b) Officers in Reserve Active-status.--Section 14106 of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended in the second 
     sentence by striking ``the day'' and inserting ``10 calendar 
     days''.
       (c) Application of Amendments.--The amendments made by this 
     section shall apply with respect to promotion selection 
     boards convened on or after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.

     SEC. 502. CLARIFICATION TO EXCEPTION FOR REMOVAL OF OFFICERS 
                   FROM LIST OF OFFICERS RECOMMENDED FOR PROMOTION 
                   AFTER 18 MONTHS WITHOUT APPOINTMENT.

       Section 629(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``the Senate is not able to obtain the 
     information necessary'' and inserting ``the military 
     department concerned is not able to obtain and provide to the 
     Senate the information the Senate requires''.

[[Page H8730]]

  


     SEC. 503. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR SPECIFICATION OF 
                   NUMBER OF OFFICERS WHO MAY BE RECOMMENDED FOR 
                   EARLY RETIREMENT BY A SELECTIVE EARLY 
                   RETIREMENT BOARD.

       Section 638a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph (1) and 
     inserting the following new paragraph:
       ``(1) In the case of an action under subsection (b)(2), the 
     total number of officers described in that subsection that a 
     selection board convened under section 611(b) of this title 
     pursuant to the authority of that subsection may recommend 
     for early retirement may not be more than 30 percent of the 
     number of officers considered in each grade in each 
     competitive category.''; and
       (2) in subsection (d), by striking paragraph (2) and 
     inserting the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) The total number of officers to be recommended for 
     discharge by a selection board convened pursuant to 
     subsection (b)(3) may not be more than 30 percent of the 
     number of officers considered.''.

     SEC. 504. EXTENSION OF SERVICE-IN-GRADE WAIVER AUTHORITY FOR 
                   VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT OF CERTAIN GENERAL AND 
                   FLAG OFFICERS FOR PURPOSES OF ENHANCED 
                   FLEXIBILITY IN OFFICER PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.

       Section 1370(a)(2)(G) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting ``2025''.

     SEC. 505. INCLUSION OF PRINCIPAL MILITARY DEPUTY TO THE 
                   ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE ARMY FOR 
                   ACQUISITION, TECHNOLOGY, AND LOGISTICS AMONG 
                   OFFICERS SUBJECT TO REPEAL OF STATUTORY 
                   SPECIFICATION OF GENERAL OFFICER GRADE.

       Section 3016(b)(5)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``a lieutenant general'' and inserting 
     ``an officer''.

     SEC. 506. CLARIFICATION OF EFFECT OF REPEAL OF STATUTORY 
                   SPECIFICATION OF GENERAL OR FLAG OFFICER GRADE 
                   FOR VARIOUS POSITIONS IN THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) Retention of Grade of Incumbents in Positions on 
     Effective Date.--
       (1) In general.--Section 502 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2102) is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new subsection:
       ``(tt) Retention of Grade of Incumbents in Positions on 
     Effective Date.--The grade of service of an officer serving 
     as of the date of the enactment of this Act in a position 
     whose statutory grade is affected by an amendment made by 
     this section may not be reduced after that date by reason of 
     such amendment as long as the officer remains in continuous 
     service in such position after that date.''.
       (2) Retroactive effective date.--The amendment made by 
     paragraph (1) shall take effect as of December 23, 2016, and 
     be treated as if included in the enactment of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328).
       (b) Clarifying Amendment to Chief of Veterinary Corps of 
     the Army Repeal.--Section 3084 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking the last sentence.

     SEC. 507. STANDARDIZATION OF AUTHORITIES IN CONNECTION WITH 
                   REPEAL OF STATUTORY SPECIFICATION OF GENERAL 
                   OFFICER GRADE FOR THE DEAN OF THE ACADEMIC 
                   BOARD OF THE UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY AND 
                   THE DEAN OF THE FACULTY OF THE UNITED STATES 
                   AIR FORCE ACADEMY.

       (a) Dean of Academic Board of Military Academy.--Section 
     4335(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking the first and third sentences; and
       (2) in the remaining sentence, by striking ``so appointed'' 
     and inserting ``appointed as Dean of the Academic Board''.
       (b) Dean of Faculty of Air Force Academy.--Section 9335(b) 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``so 
     appointed'' and inserting ``appointed as Dean of the 
     Faculty''.

     SEC. 508. FLEXIBILITY IN PROMOTION OF OFFICERS TO POSITIONS 
                   OF STAFF JUDGE ADVOCATE TO THE COMMANDANT OF 
                   THE MARINE CORPS AND DEPUTY JUDGE ADVOCATE 
                   GENERAL OF THE NAVY OR AIR FORCE.

       (a) Staff Judge Advocate to Commandant of the Marine 
     Corps.--Section 5046(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) If the Secretary of the Navy elects to convene a 
     selection board under section 611(a) of this title to 
     consider eligible officers for selection to appointment as 
     Staff Judge Advocate, the Secretary may, in connection with 
     such consideration for selection--
       ``(A) treat any section in chapter 36 of this title 
     referring to promotion to the next higher grade as if such 
     section referred to promotion to a higher grade; and
       ``(B) waive section 619(a)(2) of this title if the 
     Secretary determines that the needs of the Marine Corps 
     require the waiver.''.
       (b) Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy.--Section 
     5149(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
     at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) If the Secretary of the Navy elects to convene a 
     selection board under section 611(a) of this title to 
     consider eligible officers for selection to appointment as 
     Deputy Judge Advocate General, the Secretary may, in 
     connection with such consideration for selection--
       ``(A) treat any section in chapter 36 of this title 
     referring to promotion to the next higher grade as if such 
     section referred to promotion to a higher grade; and
       ``(B) waive section 619(a)(2) of this title if the 
     Secretary determines that the needs of the Navy require the 
     waiver.''.
       (c) Deputy Judge Advocate of the Air Force.--Section 
     8037(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(e)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) If the Secretary of the Air Force elects to convene a 
     selection board under section 611(a) of this title to 
     consider eligible officers for selection to appointment as 
     Deputy Judge Advocate General, the Secretary may, in 
     connection with such consideration for selection--
       ``(A) treat any section in chapter 36 of this title 
     referring to promotion to the next higher grade as if such 
     section referred to promotion to a higher grade; and
       ``(B) waive section 619(a)(2) of this title if the 
     Secretary determines that the needs of the Air Force require 
     the waiver.''.

     SEC. 509. GRANDFATHERING OF RETIRED GRADE OF ASSISTANT JUDGE 
                   ADVOCATES GENERAL OF THE NAVY AS OF REPEAL OF 
                   STATUTORY SPECIFICATION OF GENERAL AND FLAG 
                   OFFICERS GRADES IN THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the amendments made by 
     section 502(gg)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2105), an 
     officer selected to hold a position specified in subsection 
     (b) as of December 23, 2016, may be retired after that date 
     in the grade of rear admiral (lower half) or brigadier 
     general, as applicable, with the retired pay of such grade 
     (unless entitled to higher pay under another provision of 
     law).
       (b) Specified Positions.--Subsection (a) applies with 
     respect to the Assistant Judge Advocates General of the Navy 
     provided for by subsections (b) and (c) of section 5149 of 
     title 10, United States Code.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

     SEC. 511. EQUAL TREATMENT OF ORDERS TO SERVE ON ACTIVE DUTY 
                   UNDER SECTIONS 12304A AND 12304B OF TITLE 10, 
                   UNITED STATES CODE.

       (a) Eligibility of Reserve Component Members for Pre-
     mobilization Health Care.--Section 1074(d)(2) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``in support of a 
     contingency operation under'' and inserting ``under section 
     12304b of this title or''.
       (b) Eligibility of Reserve Component Members for 
     Transitional Health Care.--Section 1145(a)(2)(B) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``in support of a 
     contingency operation'' and inserting ``under section 12304b 
     of this title or a provision of law referred to in section 
     101(a)(13)(B) of this title''.

     SEC. 512. SERVICE CREDIT FOR CYBERSPACE EXPERIENCE OR 
                   ADVANCED EDUCATION UPON ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT AS 
                   A COMMISSIONED OFFICER.

       (a) Original Appointment as a Reserve Officer.--Section 
     12207 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(2), by inserting ``or (e)'' after 
     ``subsection (b)'';
       (2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
     (f) and (g), respectively;
       (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
     subsection (e):
       ``(e)(1) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
     Defense, if the Secretary of a military department determines 
     that the number of commissioned officers with cyberspace-
     related experience or advanced education in reserve active-
     status in an armed force under the jurisdiction of such 
     Secretary is critically below the number needed, such 
     Secretary may credit any person receiving an original 
     appointment as a reserve commissioned officer with a period 
     of constructive service for the following:
       ``(A) Special experience or training in a particular 
     cyberspace-related field if such experience or training is 
     directly related to the operational needs of the armed force 
     concerned.
       ``(B) Any period of advanced education in a cyberspace-
     related field beyond the baccalaureate degree level if such 
     advanced education is directly related to the operational 
     needs of the armed force concerned.
       ``(2) Constructive service credited an officer under this 
     subsection shall not exceed one year for each year of special 
     experience, training, or advanced education, and not more 
     than three years total constructive service may be credited.
       ``(3) Constructive service credited an officer under this 
     subsection is in addition to any service credited that 
     officer under subsection (a) and shall be credited at the 
     time of the original appointment of the officer.
       ``(4) The authority to award constructive service credit 
     under this subsection expires on December 31, 2023.''; and
       (4) in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
     striking ``or (d)'' and inserting ``, (d), or (e)''.
       (b) Extension of Authority in Connection With Original 
     Appointment of Regular Officers.--Section 533(g)(4) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 
     2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2023''.

     SEC. 513. CONSOLIDATION OF AUTHORITIES TO ORDER MEMBERS OF 
                   THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO 
                   PERFORM DUTY.

       Section 515 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 810) is 
     amended--
       (1) in the second sentence of subsection (b), by striking 
     ``such legislation as would be necessary to amend titles 10, 
     14, 32, and 37 of the United States Code and other provisions 
     of law in order

[[Page H8731]]

     to implement the Secretary's approach by October 1, 2018'' 
     and inserting ``legislation implementing the alternate 
     approach by April 30, 2019''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(c) Attributes of Alternate Approach.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall ensure the alternate approach described in 
     subsection (b)--
       ``(1) reduces the number of statutory authorities by which 
     members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces may be 
     ordered to perform duty to not more than 8 statutory 
     authorities grouped into 4 duty categories to which specific 
     pay and benefits may be aligned, which categories shall 
     include--
       ``(A) one duty category that shall generally reflect active 
     service performed in support of contingency type operations 
     or other military actions in support of the commander of a 
     combatant command;
       ``(B) a second duty category that shall--
       ``(i) generally reflect active service not described in 
     subparagraph (A); and
       ``(ii) consist of training, administration, operational 
     support, and full-time support of the reserve components;
       ``(C) a third duty category that shall--
       ``(i) generally reflect duty performed under direct 
     military supervision while not in active service; and
       ``(ii) include duty characterized by partial-day service; 
     and
       ``(D) a fourth duty category that shall--
       ``(i) generally reflect remote duty completed while not 
     under direct military supervision; and
       ``(ii) include completion of correspondence courses and 
     telework;
       ``(2) distinguishes among duty performed under titles 10, 
     14, and 32, United States Code, and ensures that the reasons 
     the members of the reserve components are utilized under the 
     statutory authorities which exist prior to the alternate 
     approach are preserved and can be tracked as separate and 
     distinct purposes;
       ``(3) minimizes, to the maximum extent practicable, 
     disruptions in pay and benefits for members, and adheres to 
     the principle that a member should receive pay and benefits 
     commensurate with the nature and performance of the member's 
     duties;
       ``(4) ensures the Secretary has the flexibility to meet 
     emerging requirements and to effectively manage the force; 
     and
       ``(5) aligns Department of Defense programming and 
     budgeting to the types of duty members perform.''.

     SEC. 514. PILOT PROGRAM ON USE OF RETIRED SENIOR ENLISTED 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMY NATIONAL GUARD AS ARMY 
                   NATIONAL GUARD RECRUITERS.

       (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army 
     may carry out a pilot program for the Army National Guard 
     under which retired senior enlisted members of the Army 
     National Guard would serve as contract recruiters for the 
     Army National Guard.
       (b) Objectives of Pilot Program.--The Secretary of the Army 
     shall design any pilot program conducted under this section 
     to determine the following:
       (1) The feasibility and effectiveness of hiring retired 
     senior enlisted members of the Army National Guard who have 
     retired within the previous two years to serve as recruiters.
       (2) The merits of hiring such retired senior enlisted 
     members as contractors or as employees of the Department of 
     Defense.
       (3) The best method of providing a competitive compensation 
     package for such retired senior enlisted members.
       (4) The merits of requiring such retired senior enlisted 
     members to wear a military uniform while performing 
     recruiting duties under the pilot program.
       (c) Consultation.--In developing a pilot program under this 
     section, the Secretary of the Army shall consult with the 
     operators of a previous pilot program carried out by the Army 
     involving the use of contract recruiters.
       (d) Commencement and Duration.--The Secretary of the Army 
     may commence a pilot program under this section on or after 
     January 1, 2018, and all activities under such a pilot 
     program shall terminate no later than December 31, 2020.
       (e) Funding Source.--If a pilot program is conducted under 
     this section, the Secretary of the Army shall use funds 
     otherwise available for the National Guard Bureau to carry 
     out the program.
       (f) Reporting Requirement.--If a pilot program is conducted 
     under this section, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to 
     the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a report containing an 
     evaluation of the success of the pilot program, including the 
     determinations described in subsection (b). The report shall 
     be submitted not later than January 1, 2019.

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

   PART I--MATTERS RELATING TO DISCHARGE AND CORRECTION OF MILITARY 
                                RECORDS

     SEC. 520. CONSIDERATION OF ADDITIONAL MEDICAL EVIDENCE BY 
                   BOARDS FOR THE CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS 
                   AND LIBERAL CONSIDERATION OF EVIDENCE RELATING 
                   TO POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER OR TRAUMATIC 
                   BRAIN INJURY.

       (a) In General.--Section 1552 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections 
     (i) and (j), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new 
     subsection (h):
       ``(h)(1) This subsection applies to a former member of the 
     armed forces whose claim under this section for review of a 
     discharge or dismissal is based in whole or in part on 
     matters relating to post-traumatic stress disorder or 
     traumatic brain injury as supporting rationale, or as 
     justification for priority consideration, and whose post-
     traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury is 
     related to combat or military sexual trauma, as determined by 
     the Secretary concerned.
       ``(2) In the case of a claimant described in paragraph (1), 
     a board established under subsection (a)(1) shall--
       ``(A) review medical evidence of the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs or a civilian health care provider that is presented 
     by the claimant; and
       ``(B) review the claim with liberal consideration to the 
     claimant that post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic 
     brain injury potentially contributed to the circumstances 
     resulting in the discharge or dismissal or to the original 
     characterization of the claimant's discharge or dismissal.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1553(d)(3)(A)(ii) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
     ``discharge of a lesser characterization'' and inserting 
     ``discharge or dismissal or to the original characterization 
     of the member's discharge or dismissal''.

     SEC. 521. PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION RELATED TO 
                   DISPOSITION OF CLAIMS REGARDING DISCHARGE OR 
                   RELEASE OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHEN THE 
                   CLAIMS INVOLVE SEXUAL ASSAULT.

       (a) Boards for the Correction of Military Records.--
     Subsection (i) of section 1552 of title 10, United States 
     Code, as redesignated by section 520(a)(1), is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The number and disposition of claims decided during 
     the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which 
     such information is made available in which sexual assault is 
     alleged to have contributed, whether in whole or in part, to 
     the original characterization of the discharge or release of 
     the former member.''.
       (b) Discharge Review Boards.--Section 1553(f) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The number and disposition of claims decided during 
     the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which 
     such information is made available in which sexual assault is 
     alleged to have contributed, whether in whole or in part, to 
     the original characterization of the discharge or release of 
     the former member.''.
       (c) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) Boards for the correction of military records.--
     Subsection (i) of section 1552 of title 10, United States 
     Code, as redesignated by section 520(a)(1) and amended by 
     subsection (a), is further amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``claimant'' both places 
     it appears and inserting ``former member'';
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``claimant'' and 
     inserting ``former member''; and
       (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``claimants'' and 
     inserting ``former members''.
       (2) Discharge review boards.--Section 1553(f)(2) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``claimant'' 
     and inserting ``former member''.

     SEC. 522. CONFIDENTIAL REVIEW OF CHARACTERIZATION OF TERMS OF 
                   DISCHARGE OF MEMBERS WHO ARE VICTIMS OF SEX-
                   RELATED OFFENSES.

       (a) Codification of Current Confidential Process.--
       (1) Codification.--Chapter 79 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 1554a a new 
     section 1554b consisting of--
       (A) a heading as follows:

     ``Sec. 1554b. Confidential review of characterization of 
       terms of discharge of members of the armed forces who are 
       victims of sex-related offenses''; and

       (B) a text consisting of the text of section 547 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 1553 note).
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 79 of such title is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 1554a the following new 
     item:

``1554b. Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge 
              of members of the armed forces who are victims of sex-
              related offenses.''.
       (3) Conforming repeal.--Section 547 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     10 U.S.C. 1553 note) is repealed.
       (b) Clarification of Applicability to Individuals Who 
     Allege Sex-related Offenses During Military Service.--
     Subsection (a) of section 1554b of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, is amended 
     by striking ``sex-related offense'' and inserting the 
     following: ``sex-related offense, or alleges that the 
     individual was the victim of a sex-related offense,''.
       (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1554b of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by subsection (a), is further 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``Armed Forces'' each place it appears in 
     subsections (a) and (b) and inserting ``armed forces'';
       (2) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by striking ``boards for the correction of military 
     records of the military department concerned'' and inserting 
     ``boards of the military department concerned established in 
     accordance with this chapter''; and
       (B) by striking ``such an offense'' and inserting ``a sex-
     related offense'';
       (3) in subsection (b), striking ``boards for the correction 
     of military records'' in the matter preceding paragraph (1) 
     and inserting ``boards of the military department concerned 
     established in accordance with this chapter''; and
       (4) in subsection (d)--
       (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``title 10, United States 
     Code'' and inserting ``this title''; and

[[Page H8732]]

       (C) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by striking ``such title'' 
     and inserting ``this title''.

     SEC. 523. TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR MEMBERS OF BOARDS FOR THE 
                   CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS AND PERSONNEL 
                   WHO INVESTIGATE CLAIMS OF RETALIATION.

       (a) Members of Boards for the Correction of Military 
     Records.--Section 534(c)(1) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     10 U.S.C. 1552 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new sentence: ``This curriculum shall also address 
     the proper handling of claims in which a sex-related offense 
     is alleged to have contributed to the original 
     characterization of the discharge or release of the claimant, 
     including guidelines for the consideration of evidence 
     substantiating such allegations in accordance with the 
     requirements of section 1554b(b) of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by section 522 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.''.
       (b) Department of Defense Personnel Who Investigate Claims 
     of Retaliation.--Section 546(a) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended by striking ``section.'' and inserting ``section, 
     including guidelines for the consideration of evidence 
     substantiating such allegations in accordance with the 
     requirements of section 1554b(b) of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by section 522 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.''.

     SEC. 524. PILOT PROGRAM ON USE OF VIDEO TELECONFERENCING 
                   TECHNOLOGY BY BOARDS FOR THE CORRECTION OF 
                   MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARDS.

       (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may 
     carry out a pilot program under which boards for the 
     correction of military records established under section 1552 
     of title 10, United States Code, and discharge review boards 
     established under section 1553 of such title are authorized 
     to utilize, in the performance of their duties, video 
     teleconferencing technology, to the extent such technology is 
     reasonably available and technically feasible.
       (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the pilot program is to 
     evaluate the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of utilizing 
     video teleconferencing technology to allow persons who raise 
     a claim before a board for the correction of military 
     records, persons who request a review by a discharge review 
     board, and witnesses who present evidence to such a board to 
     appear before such a board without being physically present.
       (c) Implementation.--As part of the pilot program, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall make funds available to develop 
     the capabilities of boards for the correction of military 
     records and discharge review boards to effectively use video 
     teleconferencing technology.
       (d) No Expansion of Eligibility.--Nothing in the pilot 
     program is intended to alter the eligibility criteria of 
     persons who may raise a claim before a board for the 
     correction of military records, request a review by a 
     discharge review board, or present evidence to such a board.
       (e) Termination.--The authority of the Secretary of Defense 
     to carry out the pilot program shall terminate on December 
     31, 2020.

               PART II--OTHER GENERAL SERVICE AUTHORITIES

     SEC. 526. MODIFICATION OF BASIS FOR EXTENSION OF PERIOD FOR 
                   ENLISTMENT IN THE ARMED FORCES UNDER THE 
                   DELAYED ENTRY PROGRAM.

       Section 513(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (4) and, in 
     such paragraph, by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and inserting 
     ``this subsection'';
       (2) by designating the second sentence of paragraph (1) as 
     paragraph (2) and indenting the left margin of such paragraph 
     (2) two ems to the right;
       (3) in paragraph (2), as so designated, by inserting 
     ``described in paragraph (1)'' after ``the 365-day period''; 
     and
       (4) by inserting after paragraph (2), as so designated, the 
     following new paragraph (3):
       ``(3)(A) The Secretary concerned may extend by up to an 
     additional 365 days the period of extension under paragraph 
     (2) for a person who enlisted before October 1, 2017, under 
     section 504(b)(2) of this title if the Secretary determines 
     that the period of extension under this paragraph is required 
     for the performance of adequate background and security 
     reviews of that person.
       ``(B) A person whose period of extension under paragraph 
     (2) is extended under this paragraph shall undergo all 
     security and suitability screening requirements and receive a 
     favorable military security suitability determination before 
     entering into service in a regular or reserve component. 
     Screening priority shall be given to those persons who were 
     enlisted for a military occupational specialty that requires 
     specialized language or medical skills that are vital to the 
     national interest.
       ``(C) The authority to make an extension under this 
     paragraph shall expire one year after the date of the 
     enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2018. The expiration of such authority shall not 
     effect the validity of any extension made in accordance with 
     this paragraph on or before that date.''.

     SEC. 527. REAUTHORIZATION OF AUTHORITY TO ORDER RETIRED 
                   MEMBERS TO ACTIVE DUTY IN HIGH-DEMAND, LOW-
                   DENSITY ASSIGNMENTS.

       Section 688a(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``after December 31, 2011.'' and inserting 
     ``outside a period as follows:
       ``(1) The period beginning on December 2, 2002, and ending 
     on December 31, 2011.
       ``(2) The period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 
     and ending on December 31, 2022.''.

     SEC. 528. NOTIFICATION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
                   UNDERGOING CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATIONS 
                   OF POTENTIAL ELIGIBILITY FOR VETERANS BENEFITS.

       (a) Notification Required.--A member of the Armed Forces 
     who receives an administrative separation or mandatory 
     discharge under conditions other than honorable shall be 
     provided written notification that the member may petition 
     the Veterans Benefits Administration of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to receive, despite the characterization of 
     the member's service, certain benefits under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
       (b) Deadline for Notification.--Notification under 
     subsection (a) shall be provided to a member described in 
     such subsection in conjunction with the member's notification 
     of the administrative separation or mandatory discharge or as 
     soon thereafter as practicable.

     SEC. 529. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS 
                   AFFAIRS TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONDUCT OF MEDICAL 
                   DISABILITY EXAMINATIONS BY CONTRACT PHYSICIANS.

       Section 704(c) of the Veterans Benefits Act of 2003 (Public 
     Law 108-183; 38 U.S.C. 5101 note) is amended by striking 
     ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.

     SEC. 530. PROVISION OF INFORMATION ON NATURALIZATION THROUGH 
                   MILITARY SERVICE.

       The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that members of the 
     Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps who are aliens 
     lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
     residence are informed of the availability of naturalization 
     through service in the Armed Forces under section 328 of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1439) and the 
     process by which to pursue naturalization. The Secretary 
     shall ensure that resources are available to assist qualified 
     members of the Armed Forces to navigate the application and 
     naturalization process.

          Subtitle D--Military Justice and Other Legal Issues

     SEC. 531. CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS RELATED TO THE UNIFORM CODE 
                   OF MILITARY JUSTICE REFORM BY THE MILITARY 
                   JUSTICE ACT OF 2016.

       (a) Enforcement of Rights of Victims of Offenses Under 
     UCMJ.--Section 806b(e)(3) of title 10, United States Code 
     (article 6b(e)(3) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
     is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'';
       (2) by striking ``President, and, to the extent 
     practicable, shall have priority over all other proceedings 
     before the court.'' and inserting the following; ``President, 
     subject to section 830a of this title (article 30a).''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(B) To the extent practicable, a petition for a writ of 
     mandamus described in this subsection shall have priority 
     over all other proceedings before the Court of Criminal 
     Appeals.
       ``(C) Review of any decision of the Court of Criminal 
     Appeals on a petition for a writ of mandamus described in 
     this subsection shall have priority in the Court of Appeals 
     for the Armed Forces, as determined under the rules of the 
     Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.''.
       (b) Review of Certain Matters Before Referral of Charges 
     and Specifications.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 830a of 
     title 10, United States Code (article 30a of the Uniform Code 
     of Military Justice), as added by section 5202 of the 
     Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-
     328; 130 Stat. 2904), is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
     ``, or otherwise act on,'' after ``to review''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(D) Pre-referral matters under subsection (c) or (e) of 
     section 806b of this title (article 6b).''.
       (c) Defense Counsel Assistance in Post-trial Matters for 
     Accused Convicted by Court-martial.--Section 838(c)(2) of 
     title 10, United States Code (article 38(c)(2) of the Uniform 
     Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking ``section 
     860 of this title (article 60)'' and inserting ``section 860, 
     860a, or 860b of this title (article 60, 60a, or 60b)''.
       (d) Limitation on Acceptance of Plea Agreements.--Section 
     853a of title 10, United States Code (article 53a of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5237 
     of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2917), is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period and inserting 
     a semicolon; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(4) is prohibited by law; or
       ``(5) is contrary to, or is inconsistent with, a regulation 
     prescribed by the President with respect to terms, 
     conditions, or other aspects of plea agreements.''; and
       (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``shall bind the parties 
     and the military judge'' and inserting ``shall bind the 
     parties and the court-martial''.
       (e) Applicability of Standards and Procedures to Sentence 
     Appeal by the United States.--Subsection (d)(1) of section 
     856 of title 10, United States Code (article 56 of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5301 
     of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2919), is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
     after ``concerned,'' the following:

[[Page H8733]]

     ``and consistent with standards and procedures set forth in 
     regulations prescribed by the President,''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting before the period at 
     the end the following: ``, as determined in accordance with 
     standards and procedures prescribed by the President''.
       (f) Sentence of Reduction in Enlisted Grade.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 858a of title 
     10, United States Code (article 58a of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), as amended by section 5303(1) of the 
     Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-
     328; 130 Stat. 2923), is further amended in the matter after 
     paragraph (3) by striking ``, effective on the date'' and 
     inserting the following: ``, if such a reduction is 
     authorized by regulation prescribed by the President. The 
     reduction in pay grade shall take effect on the date''.
       (2) Section heading.--The heading of section 858a of title 
     10, United States Code (article 58a of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 858a. Art. 58a. Sentences: reduction in enlisted 
       grade''.

       (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter VIII of chapter 47 of title 10, 
     United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 858a 
     (article 58a) and inserting the following new item:

``858a. 58a. Sentences: reduction in enlisted grade.''.
       (g) Convening Authority Authorities.--Section 858b(b) of 
     title 10, United States Code (article 58b(b) of the Uniform 
     Code of Military Justice), is amended in the first sentence 
     by striking ``section 860 of this title (article 60)'' and 
     inserting ``section 860a or 860b of this title (article 60a 
     or 60b)''.
       (h) Appeal by the United States.--Section 862(b) of title 
     10, United States Code (article 62(b) of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), is amended by striking ``, notwithstanding 
     section 866(c) of this title (article 66(c))''.
       (i) Rehearing and Sentencing.--Subsection (b) of section 
     863 of title 10, United States Code (article 63 of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5327 
     of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2929), is amended by inserting before the 
     period at the end the following: ``, subject to such 
     limitations as the President may prescribe by regulation''.
       (j) Courts of Criminal Appeals.--Section 866 of title 10, 
     United States Code (article 66 of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), as amended by section 5330 of the Military 
     Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-328; 130 
     Stat. 2932), is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (e)(2)(C), by inserting after 
     ``required'' the following: ``by regulation prescribed by the 
     President or''; and
       (2) in subsection (f)(3)--
       (A) by inserting ``of Criminal Appeals'' after ``Court'' 
     the first time it appears; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``If 
     the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces determines that 
     additional proceedings are warranted, the Court of Criminal 
     Appeals shall order a hearing or other proceeding in 
     accordance with the direction of the Court of Appeals for the 
     Armed Forces.''.
       (k) Military Justice Review Panel.--Subsection (f) of 
     section 946 of title 10, United States Code (article 146 of 
     the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 
     5521 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of 
     Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2962), is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' in 
     the first sentence and inserting ``fiscal year 2021'';
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the sentence beginning 
     ``Not later than'' and inserting the following new sentence: 
     ``The analysis under this paragraph shall be included in the 
     assessment required by paragraph (1).''; and
       (3) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following 
     new paragraph (5):
       ``(5) Reports.--With respect to each review and assessment 
     under this subsection, the Panel shall submit a report to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives. Each report--
       ``(A) shall set forth the results of the review and 
     assessment concerned, including the findings and 
     recommendations of the Panel; and
       ``(B) shall be submitted not later than December 31 of the 
     calendar year in which the review and assessment is 
     concluded.''.
       (l) Transitional Compensation for Dependents of Members 
     Separated for Dependent Abuse.--Section 1059(e) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(A)(ii), by striking ``the approval 
     of'' and all that follows through ``as approved,'' and 
     inserting ``entry of judgment under section 860c of this 
     title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) 
     if the sentence''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``by a court-martial'' 
     the second place it appears and all that follows through 
     ``include any such punishment,'' and inserting ``for a 
     dependent-abuse offense and the conviction is disapproved or 
     is otherwise not part of the judgment under section 860c of 
     this title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice) or the punishment is disapproved or is otherwise not 
     part of the judgment under such section (article),''.
       (m) Benefits for Dependents Who Are Victims of Abuse by 
     Members Losing Right to Retired Pay.--Section 1408(h)(10)(A) 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the 
     approval'' and all that follows through the end of the 
     subparagraph and inserting ``entry of judgment under section 
     860c of this title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice).''.
       (n) Treatment of Certain Offenses Pending Execution of 
     Military Justice Act of 2016 Amendments.--
       (1) Applicability to certain cases.--Section 5542(c)(1) of 
     the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2967) is amended by inserting after 
     ``shall apply to a case in which'' the following: ``a 
     specification alleges the commission, before the effective 
     date of such amendments, of one or more offenses or to a case 
     in which''.
       (2) Child abuse offenses.--With respect to offenses 
     committed before the date designated by the President under 
     section 5542(a) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division 
     E of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2967), subsection 
     (b)(2)(B) of section 843 of title 10, United States Code 
     (article 43 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), shall 
     be applied as in effect on December 22, 2016.
       (3) Fraudulent enlistment or appointment offenses.--With 
     respect to the period beginning on December 23, 2016, and 
     ending on the day before the date designated by the President 
     under section 5542(a) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 
     (division E of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2967), in the 
     application of subsection (h) of section 843 of title 10, 
     United States Code (article 43 of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), as added by section 5225(b) of that Act 
     (130 Stat. 2909), the reference in such subsection (h) to 
     section 904a(1) of title 10, United States Code (article 
     104a(1) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to section 883(1) of title 10, 
     United States Code (article 83(1) of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice).
       (o) Sentencing in Certain Transitional Cases.--
       (1) In general.--In any transition-period court-martial, 
     the relevant sentencing sections of chapter 47 of title 10, 
     United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
     shall be applied as follows:
       (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the relevant 
     sentencing sections shall be applied as if the amendments to 
     such sections made by the Military Justice Act of 2016 
     (division E of Public Law 114-328) and this section had not 
     been enacted.
       (B) If the accused so requests, the relevant sentencing 
     sections shall be applied as amended by the Military Justice 
     Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-328) and this 
     section.
       (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
       (A) Transition-period court-martial.--The term 
     ``transition-period court-martial'' means a court-martial 
     under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform 
     Code of Military Justice), that consists of both of the 
     following:
       (i) A prosecution of one or more offenses committed before 
     the date designated by the President under section 5542(a) of 
     the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2967).
       (ii) A prosecution of one or more offenses committed on or 
     after that date.
       (B) Relevant sentencing sections.--The term ``relevant 
     sentencing sections'' means section 856 of title 10, United 
     States Code (article 56 of the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice), and any other sections (articles) of chapter 47 of 
     title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice), that, by regulation prescribed by the President, 
     are designated as relevant to sentencing for the purposes of 
     paragraph (1).
       (p) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect immediately after the amendments made by 
     the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328) take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that 
     Act (130 Stat. 2967).

     SEC. 532. ENHANCEMENT OF EFFECTIVE PROSECUTION AND DEFENSE IN 
                   COURTS-MARTIAL AND RELATED MATTERS.

       (a) Additional Element in Program for Effective Prosecution 
     and Defense.--Section 542(a)(1) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     10 U.S.C. 827 note) is amended by inserting before the 
     semicolon the following: ``or there is adequate supervision 
     and oversight of trial counsel and defense counsel so 
     detailed to ensure effective prosecution and defense in the 
     court-martial''.
       (b) Use of Civilian Employees to Advise Less Experienced 
     Judge Advocates in Prosecution and Defense.--Section 542 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 827 note) is further amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
     (d) and (e), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
     subsection (c):
       ``(c) Use of Civilian Employees to Advise Less Experienced 
     Judge Advocates in Prosecution and Defense.--The Secretary 
     concerned may use highly qualified experts and other civilian 
     employees who are under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
     concerned, are available, and are experienced in the 
     prosecution or defense of complex criminal cases to provide 
     assistance to, and consult with, less experienced judge 
     advocates throughout the court-martial process.''.
       (c) Pilot Programs on Professional Developmental Process 
     for Judge Advocates.--Subsection (d) of section 542 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 827 note), as redesignated by 
     subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``establishing'' and all 
     that follows and inserting ``a military justice career track 
     for judge advocates under the jurisdiction of the 
     Secretary.'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
     paragraph (4):
       ``(4) Elements.--Each pilot program shall include the 
     following:
       ``(A) A military justice career track for judge advocates 
     that leads to judge advocates with

[[Page H8734]]

     military justice expertise in the grade of colonel, or in the 
     grade of captain in the case of judge advocates of the Navy.
       ``(B) The use of skill identifiers to identify judge 
     advocates for participation in the pilot program from among 
     judge advocates having appropriate skill and experience in 
     military justice matters.
       ``(C) Guidance for promotion boards considering the 
     selection for promotion of officers participating in the 
     pilot program in order to ensure that judge advocates who are 
     participating in the pilot program have the same opportunity 
     for promotion as all other judge advocate officers being 
     considered for promotion by such boards.
       ``(D) Such other matters as the Secretary concerned 
     considers appropriate.''.

     SEC. 533. PUNITIVE ARTICLE UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY 
                   JUSTICE ON WRONGFUL BROADCAST OR DISTRIBUTION 
                   OF INTIMATE VISUAL IMAGES OR VISUAL IMAGES OF 
                   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT CONDUCT.

       (a) Prohibition.--Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 917 
     (article 117 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) the 
     following new section (article):

     ``Sec. 917a. Art. 117a. Wrongful broadcast or distribution of 
       intimate visual images

       ``(a) Prohibition.--Any person subject to this chapter--
       ``(1) who knowingly and wrongfully broadcasts or 
     distributes an intimate visual image of another person or a 
     visual image of sexually explicit conduct involving a person 
     who--
       ``(A) is at least 18 years of age at the time the intimate 
     visual image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct was 
     created;
       ``(B) is identifiable from the intimate visual image or 
     visual image of sexually explicit conduct itself, or from 
     information displayed in connection with the intimate visual 
     image or visual image of sexually explicit conduct; and
       ``(C) does not explicitly consent to the broadcast or 
     distribution of the intimate visual image or visual image of 
     sexually explicit conduct;
       ``(2) who knows or reasonably should have known that the 
     intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit 
     conduct was made under circumstances in which the person 
     depicted in the intimate visual image or visual image of 
     sexually explicit conduct retained a reasonable expectation 
     of privacy regarding any broadcast or distribution of the 
     intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit 
     conduct;
       ``(3) who knows or reasonably should have known that the 
     broadcast or distribution of the intimate visual image or 
     visual image of sexually explicit conduct is likely--
       ``(A) to cause harm, harassment, intimidation, emotional 
     distress, or financial loss for the person depicted in the 
     intimate visual image or visual image of sexually explicit 
     conduct; or
       ``(B) to harm substantially the depicted person with 
     respect to that person's health, safety, business, calling, 
     career, financial condition, reputation, or personal 
     relationships; and
       ``(4) whose conduct, under the circumstances, had a 
     reasonably direct and palpable connection to a military 
     mission or military environment,
     is guilty of wrongful distribution of intimate visual images 
     or visual images of sexually explicit conduct and shall be 
     punished as a court-martial may direct.
       ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Broadcast.--The term `broadcast' means to 
     electronically transmit a visual image with the intent that 
     it be viewed by a person or persons.
       ``(2) Distribute.--The term `distribute' means to deliver 
     to the actual or constructive possession of another person, 
     including transmission by mail or electronic means.
       ``(3) Intimate visual image.--The term `intimate visual 
     image' means a visual image that depicts a private area of a 
     person.
       ``(4) Private area.--The term `private area' means the 
     naked or underwear-clad genitalia, anus, buttocks, or female 
     areola or nipple.
       ``(5) Reasonable expectation of privacy.--The term 
     `reasonable expectation of privacy' means circumstances in 
     which a reasonable person would believe that a private area 
     of the person, or sexually explicit conduct involving the 
     person, would not be visible to the public.
       ``(6) Sexually explicit conduct.--The term `sexually 
     explicit conduct' means actual or simulated genital-genital 
     contact, oral-genital contact, anal-genital contact, or oral-
     anal contact, whether between persons of the same or opposite 
     sex, bestiality, masturbation, or sadistic or masochistic 
     abuse.
       ``(7) Visual image.--The term `visual image' means the 
     following:
       ``(A) Any developed or undeveloped photograph, picture, 
     film, or video.
       ``(B) Any digital or computer image, picture, film, or 
     video made by any means, including those transmitted by any 
     means, including streaming media, even if not stored in a 
     permanent format.
       ``(C) Any digital or electronic data capable of conversion 
     into a visual image.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United 
     States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
     amended by inserting after the item relating to section 917 
     (article 117) the following new item:

``917a. 117a. Wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual 
              images.''.

     SEC. 534. GARNISHMENT TO SATISFY JUDGMENT RENDERED FOR 
                   PHYSICALLY, SEXUALLY, OR EMOTIONALLY ABUSING A 
                   CHILD.

       (a) Garnishment Authority.--Section 1408 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(l) Garnishment To Satisfy a Judgment Rendered for 
     Physically, Sexually, or Emotionally Abusing a Child.--(1) 
     Subject to paragraph (2), any payment of retired pay that 
     would otherwise be made to a member shall be paid (in whole 
     or in part) by the Secretary concerned to another person if 
     and to the extent expressly provided for in the terms of a 
     child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(2) A court order providing for the payment of child 
     support or alimony or, with respect to a division of 
     property, specifically providing for the payment of an amount 
     of the disposable retired pay from a member to the spouse or 
     a former spouse of the member, shall be given priority over a 
     child abuse garnishment order. The total amount of the 
     disposable retired pay of a member payable under a child 
     abuse garnishment order shall not exceed 25 percent of the 
     member's disposable retired pay.
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `court order' includes a 
     child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(4) In this subsection, the term `child abuse garnishment 
     order' means a final decree issued by a court that--
       ``(A) is issued in accordance with the laws of the 
     jurisdiction of that court; and
       ``(B) provides in the nature of garnishment for the 
     enforcement of a judgment rendered against the member for 
     physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child.
       ``(5) For purposes of this subsection, a judgment rendered 
     for physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child is 
     any legal claim perfected through a final enforceable 
     judgment, which claim is based in whole or in part upon the 
     physical, sexual, or emotional abuse of an individual under 
     18 years of age, whether or not that abuse is accompanied by 
     other actionable wrongdoing, such as sexual exploitation or 
     gross negligence.
       ``(6) If the Secretary concerned is served with more than 
     one court order with respect to the retired pay of a member, 
     the disposable retired pay of the member shall be available 
     to satisfy such court orders on a first-come, first-served 
     basis, subject to the order of precedence specified in 
     paragraph (2), with any such process being satisfied out of 
     such monies as remain after the satisfaction of all such 
     processes which have been previously served.
       ``(7) The Secretary concerned shall not be required to vary 
     normal pay and disbursement cycles for retired pay in order 
     to comply with a child abuse garnishment order.''.
       (b) Application of Amendment.--Subsection (l) of section 
     1408 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection 
     (a), shall apply with respect to a court order received by 
     the Secretary concerned on or after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, regardless of the date of the court order.

     SEC. 535. SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE TRAINING FOR 
                   ALL INDIVIDUALS ENLISTED IN THE ARMED FORCES 
                   UNDER A DELAYED ENTRY PROGRAM.

       (a) Training Required.--Commencing not later than 180 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, each Secretary 
     concerned shall, insofar as practicable, provide training on 
     sexual assault prevention and response to each individual 
     under the jurisdiction of such Secretary who is enlisted in 
     the Armed Forces under a delayed entry program such that each 
     such individual completes such training before the date of 
     commencement of basic training or initial active duty for 
     training in the Armed Forces.
       (b) Training Elements.--The training provided pursuant to 
     subsection (a)--
       (1) shall, to the extent practicable, be uniform across the 
     Armed Forces;
       (2) should be provided through in-person instruction, 
     whenever possible;
       (3) should include instruction on the proper use of social 
     media; and
       (4) shall meet such other requirements as the Secretary of 
     Defense may establish.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``delayed entry program'' means the following:
       (A) The Future Soldiers Program of the Army.
       (B) The Delayed Entry Program of the Navy and the Marine 
     Corps.
       (C) The program of the Air Force for the delayed entry of 
     enlistees into the Air Force.
       (D) The program of the Coast Guard for the delayed entry of 
     enlistees into the Coast Guard.
       (E) Any successor program to a program referred to in 
     subparagraphs (A) through (D).
       (2) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States 
     Code.

     SEC. 536. SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL TRAINING REGARDING THE 
                   UNIQUE CHALLENGES OFTEN FACED BY MALE VICTIMS 
                   OF SEXUAL ASSAULT.

       The baseline Special Victims' Counsel training established 
     under section 1044e(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, 
     shall include training for Special Victims' Counsel to 
     recognize and deal with the unique challenges often faced by 
     male victims of sexual assault.

     SEC. 537. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION IN ANNUAL SAPRO REPORTS 
                   REGARDING MILITARY SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND 
                   INCIDENTS INVOLVING NONCONSENSUAL DISTRIBUTION 
                   OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.

       (a) Additional Reporting Requirements.--Section 1631(b) of 
     the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(13) Information and data collected through formal and 
     informal reports of sexual harassment involving members of 
     the Armed Forces during the year covered by the report, as 
     follows:
       ``(A) The number of substantiated and unsubstantiated 
     reports.
       ``(B) A synopsis of each substantiated report.

[[Page H8735]]

       ``(C) The action taken in the case of each substantiated 
     report, including the type of disciplinary or administrative 
     sanction imposed, if any, such as--
       ``(i) conviction and sentence by court-martial;
       ``(ii) imposition of non-judicial punishment under section 
     815 of title 10, United States Code (article 15 of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice); or
       ``(iii) administrative separation or other type of 
     administrative action imposed.
       ``(14) Information and data collected during the year 
     covered by the report on each reported incident involving the 
     nonconsensual distribution by a person subject to chapter 47 
     of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice), of a private sexual image of another person, 
     including the following:
       ``(A) The number of substantiated and unsubstantiated 
     reports.
       ``(B) A synopsis of each substantiated report.
       ``(C) The action taken in the case of each substantiated 
     report, including the type of disciplinary or administrative 
     sanction imposed, if any, such as--
       ``(i) conviction and sentence by court-martial;
       ``(ii) imposition of non-judicial punishment under section 
     815 of title 10, United States Code (article 15 of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice); or
       ``(iii) administrative separation or other type of 
     administrative action imposed.''.
       (b) Application of Amendment.--The amendment made by this 
     section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of 
     this Act and apply beginning with the reports required to be 
     submitted by March 1, 2020, under section 1631 of the Ike 
     Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note).

     SEC. 538. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION IN ANNUAL SAPRO REPORTS 
                   REGARDING SEXUAL ASSAULTS COMMITTED BY A MEMBER 
                   OF THE ARMED FORCES AGAINST THE MEMBER'S SPOUSE 
                   OR OTHER FAMILY MEMBER.

       Beginning with the reports required to be submitted by 
     March 1, 2019, under section 1631 of the Ike Skelton National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
     111-383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note), information regarding a sexual 
     assault committed by a member of the Armed Forces against the 
     spouse or intimate partner of the member or another dependent 
     of the member shall be included in such reports in addition 
     to the annual Family Advocacy Program report. The information 
     may be included as an annex to such reports.

   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

     SEC. 541. ELEMENT IN PRESEPARATION COUNSELING FOR MEMBERS OF 
                   THE ARMED FORCES ON ASSISTANCE AND SUPPORT 
                   SERVICES FOR CAREGIVERS OF CERTAIN VETERANS 
                   THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

       (a) In General.--Section 1142(b) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(18) A description, developed in consultation with the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, of the assistance and support 
     services for family caregivers of eligible veterans under the 
     program conducted by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     pursuant to section 1720G of title 38, including the veterans 
     covered by the program, the caregivers eligible for 
     assistance and support through the program, and the 
     assistance and support available through the program.''.
       (b) Participation of Potential Caregivers in Appropriate 
     Preseparation Counseling.--
       (1) In general.--In accordance with procedures established 
     by the Secretary of Defense, each Secretary of a military 
     department shall take appropriate actions to achieve the 
     following:
       (A) To determine whether each member of the Armed Forces 
     under the jurisdiction of such Secretary who is undergoing 
     preseparation counseling pursuant to section 1142 of title 
     10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), and 
     who may require caregiver services after separation from the 
     Armed Forces has identified an individual to provide such 
     services after the member's separation.
       (B) In the case of a member described in subparagraph (A) 
     who has identified an individual to provide caregiver 
     services after the member's separation, at the election of 
     the member, to permit such individual to participate in 
     appropriate sessions of the member's preseparation counseling 
     in order to inform such individual of--
       (i) the assistance and support services available to 
     caregivers of members after separation from the Armed Forces; 
     and
       (ii) the manner in which the member's transition to 
     civilian life after separation may likely affect such 
     individual as a caregiver.
       (2) Caregivers.--For purposes of this subsection, 
     individuals who provide caregiver services refers to 
     individuals (including a spouse, partner, parent, sibling, 
     adult child, other relative, or friend) who provide physical 
     or emotional assistance to former members of the Armed Forces 
     during and after their transition from military life to 
     civilian life following separation from the Armed Forces.
       (3) Deadline for commencement.--Each Secretary of a miliary 
     department shall commence the actions required pursuant to 
     this subsection by not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 542. IMPROVED EMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE FOR MEMBERS OF THE 
                   ARMY, NAVY, AIR FORCE, AND MARINE CORPS AND 
                   VETERANS.

       (a) Improved Employment Skills Verification.--Section 
     1143(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary of 
     Defense''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) In order to improve the accuracy and completeness of 
     a certification or verification of job skills and experience 
     required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall--
       ``(A) establish a database to record all training performed 
     by members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps 
     that may have application to employment in the civilian 
     sector; and
       ``(B) make unclassified information regarding such 
     information available to States and other potential employers 
     referred to in subsection (c) so that State and other 
     entities may allow military training to satisfy licensing or 
     certification requirements to engage in a civilian 
     profession.''.
       (b) Improved Accuracy of Certificates of Training and 
     Skills.--Section 1143(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     further amended by inserting after paragraph (2), as added by 
     subsection (a), the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that a 
     certification or verification of job skills and experience 
     required by paragraph (1) is rendered in such a way that 
     States and other potential employers can confirm the accuracy 
     and authenticity of the certification or verification.''.
       (c) Improved Responsiveness to Certification Requests.--
     Section 1143(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``For the purpose''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2)(A) A State may--
       ``(i) use a certification or verification of job skills and 
     experience provided to a member of the armed forces under 
     subsection (a); and
       ``(ii) in the case of members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
     and Marine Corps, request the Department of Defense to 
     confirm the accuracy and authenticity of the certification or 
     verification.
       ``(B) A response confirming or denying the information 
     shall be provided within five business days.''.
       (d) Improved Notice to Members.--Section 1142(b)(4)(A) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting before 
     the semicolon the following: ``, including State-submitted 
     and approved lists of military training and skills that 
     satisfy occupational certifications and licenses''.

     SEC. 543. LIMITATION ON RELEASE OF MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY 
                   GRADUATES TO PARTICIPATE IN PROFESSIONAL 
                   ATHLETICS.

       (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4348(a) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) That the cadet--
       ``(A) will not seek release from the cadet's commissioned 
     service obligation to obtain employment as a professional 
     athlete following graduation until the cadet completes a 
     period of at least two consecutive years of commissioned 
     service; and
       ``(B) understands that the appointment alternative 
     described in paragraph (3) will not be used to allow the 
     cadet to obtain such employment until at least the end of 
     that two-year period.''.
       (b) United States Naval Academy.--Section 6959(a) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(5) That the midshipman--
       ``(A) will not seek release from the midshipman's 
     commissioned service obligation to obtain employment as a 
     professional athlete following graduation until the 
     midshipman completes a period of at least two consecutive 
     years of commissioned service; and
       ``(B) understands that the appointment alternative 
     described in paragraph (3) will not be used to allow the 
     midshipman to obtain such employment until at least the end 
     of that two-year period.''.
       (c) United States Air Force Academy.--Section 9348(a) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) That the cadet--
       ``(A) will not seek release from the cadet's commissioned 
     service obligation to obtain employment as a professional 
     athlete following graduation until the cadet completes a 
     period of at least two consecutive years of commissioned 
     service; and
       ``(B) understands that the appointment alternative 
     described in paragraph (2) will not be used to allow the 
     cadet to obtain such employment until at least the end of 
     that two-year period.''.
       (d) Application of Amendments.--The Secretaries of the 
     military departments shall promptly revise the cadet and 
     midshipman service agreements under sections 4348, 6959, and 
     9348 of title 10, United States Code, to reflect the 
     amendments made by this section. The revised agreement shall 
     apply to cadets and midshipmen who are attending the United 
     States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, or 
     the United States Air Force Academy on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act and to persons who begin attendance at 
     such military service academies on or after that date.

     SEC. 544. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF SUICIDE PREVENTION AND 
                   RESILIENCE PROGRAM FOR THE NATIONAL GUARD AND 
                   RESERVES.

       Section 10219(g) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``October 1, 2018'' and inserting 
     ``October 1, 2020''.

     SEC. 545. ANNUAL CERTIFICATIONS RELATED TO READY, RELEVANT 
                   LEARNING INITIATIVE OF THE NAVY.

       (a) Annual Certifications Required.--Not later than March 
     1, 2018, and each year thereafter, the Secretary of the Navy 
     shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate

[[Page H8736]]

     and the House of Representatives a certification on the 
     status of implementation of the Ready, Relevant Learning 
     initiative of the Navy for each applicable enlisted rating.
       (b) Elements.--Each certification under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) A certification by the Commander of the United States 
     Fleet Forces Command that the block learning and modernized 
     delivery methods of the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative 
     to be implemented during the fiscal year beginning in which 
     such certification is submitted will meet or exceed the 
     existing training delivery approach for all associated 
     training requirements.
       (2) A certification by the Secretary of the Navy that the 
     content re-engineering necessary to meet all training 
     objectives and transition from the traditional training 
     curriculum to the modernized delivery format to be 
     implemented during such fiscal year will be complete prior to 
     such transition, including full functionality of all required 
     course software and hardware.
       (3) A detailed cost estimate of transitioning to the block 
     learning and modernized delivery approaches to be implemented 
     during such fiscal year with funding listed by purpose, 
     amount, appropriations account, budget program element or 
     line item, and end strength adjustments.
       (4) A detailed phasing plan associated with transitioning 
     to the block learning and modernized delivery approaches to 
     be implemented during such fiscal year, including the current 
     status, timing, and identification of reductions in ``A'' 
     school and ``C'' school courses, curricula, funding, and 
     personnel.
       (5) A certification by the Secretary of the Navy that--
       (A) the contracting strategy associated with transitioning 
     to the modernized delivery approach to be implemented during 
     such fiscal year has been completed; and
       (B) contracting actions contain sufficient specification 
     detail to enable a low risk approach to receiving the 
     deliverable end item or items on-budget, on-schedule, and 
     with satisfactory performance.

     SEC. 546. AUTHORITY TO EXPAND ELIGIBILITY FOR THE UNITED 
                   STATES MILITARY APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM.

       (a) Expansion Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may 
     expand eligibility for the United Services Military 
     Apprenticeship Program to include any member of the uniformed 
     services.
       (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``uniformed 
     services'' has the meaning given such term in section 
     101(a)(5) of title 10, United States Code.

     SEC. 547. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ATTENDANCE 
                   OF AIR FORCE ENLISTED PERSONNEL AT AIR FORCE 
                   OFFICER PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION IN-
                   RESIDENCE COURSES.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department 
     of the Air Force may be obligated or expended for the purpose 
     of the attendance of Air Force enlisted personnel at Air 
     Force officer professional military education (PME) in-
     residence courses until the later of--
       (1) the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force 
     submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives, and to the Comptroller General 
     of the United States, a report on the attendance of such 
     personnel at such courses as described in subsection (b);
       (2) the date on which the Comptroller General submits to 
     such committees the report setting forth an assessment of the 
     report under paragraph (1) as described in subsection (c); or
       (3) 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (b) Secretary of the Air Force Report.--The report of the 
     Secretary described in subsection (a)(1) shall include the 
     following:
       (1) The purpose of the attendance of Air Force enlisted 
     personnel at Air Force officer professional military 
     education in-residence courses.
       (2) The objectives for the attendance of such enlisted 
     personnel at such officer professional military education 
     courses.
       (3) The required prerequisites for such enlisted personnel 
     to attend such officer professional military education 
     courses.
       (4) The process for selecting such enlisted personnel to 
     attend such officer professional military education courses.
       (5) The impact of the attendance of such enlisted personnel 
     at such officer professional military education courses on 
     the availability of officer allocations for the attendance of 
     officers at such courses.
       (6) The impact of the attendance of such enlisted personnel 
     at such officer professional military education courses on 
     the morale and retention of officers attending such courses.
       (7) The resources required for such enlisted personnel to 
     attend such officer professional military education courses.
       (8) The impact on unit and overall Air Force manning levels 
     of the attendance of such enlisted personnel at such officer 
     professional military education courses, especially at the 
     statutorily-limited end strengths of grades E-8 and E-9.
       (9) The extent to which graduation by such enlisted 
     personnel from such officer professional military education 
     courses is a requirement for Air Force or joint assignments.
       (10) The planned assignment utilization for Air Force 
     enlisted graduates of such officer professional military 
     education courses.
       (11) Any other matters in connection with the attendance of 
     such enlisted personnel at such officer professional military 
     education courses that the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (c) Comptroller General of the United States Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date the 
     Secretary submits the report described in subsection (a)(1), 
     the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     a briefing on an assessment of the report by the Comptroller 
     General. As soon as practicable after the briefing, the 
     Comptroller General shall submit to such committees a report 
     on such assessment for purposes of subsection (a)(2).
       (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
     the following:
       (A) An assessment of whether the conclusions and assertions 
     included in the report of the Secretary under subsection (a) 
     are comprehensive, fully supported, and sufficiently 
     detailed.
       (B) An identification of any shortcomings, limitations, or 
     other reportable matters that affect the quality of the 
     findings or conclusions of the report of the Secretary.

     SEC. 548. LIEUTENANT HENRY OSSIAN FLIPPER LEADERSHIP 
                   SCHOLARSHIPS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army shall designate 
     a number of scholarships under the Army Senior Reserve 
     Officers' Training Corps (SROTC) program that are available 
     to students at minority-serving institutions as ``Lieutenant 
     Henry Ossian Flipper Leadership Scholarships''.
       (b) Number Designated.--The number of scholarships 
     designated pursuant to subsection (a) shall be the number the 
     Secretary determines appropriate to increase the number of 
     Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps scholarships at 
     minority-serving institutions. In making the determination, 
     the Secretary shall give appropriate consideration to the 
     following:
       (1) The number of Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
     scholarships available at all institutions participating in 
     the Senior Reserve Officer's Training Corps program.
       (2) The number of such minority-serving institutions that 
     offer the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program to 
     their students.
       (c) Amount of Scholarship.--The Secretary may increase any 
     scholarship designated pursuant to subsection (a) to an 
     amount in excess of the amount of the Senior Reserve 
     Officers' Training Corps program scholarship that would 
     otherwise be offered at the minority-serving institution 
     concerned if the Secretary considers that a scholarship of 
     such increased amount is appropriate for the purpose of the 
     scholarship.
       (d) Minority-serving Institution Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``minority-serving institution'' means an 
     institution of higher education described in section 371(a) 
     of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)).

     SEC. 549. PILOT PROGRAMS ON APPOINTMENT IN THE EXCEPTED 
                   SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF 
                   PHYSICALLY DISQUALIFIED FORMER CADETS AND 
                   MIDSHIPMEN.

       (a) Pilot Programs Authorized.--
       (1) In general.--Each Secretary of a military department 
     may carry out a pilot program under which former cadets or 
     midshipmen described in paragraph (2) (in this section 
     referred to as ``eligible individuals'') under the 
     jurisdiction of such Secretary may be appointed by the 
     Secretary of Defense in the excepted service under section 
     3320 of title 5, United States Code, in the Department of 
     Defense.
       (2) Cadets and midshipmen.--Except as provided in paragraph 
     (3), a former cadet or midshipman described in this paragraph 
     is any former cadet at the United States Military Academy or 
     the United States Air Force Academy, and any former 
     midshipman at the United States Naval Academy, who--
       (A) completed the prescribed course of instruction and 
     graduated from the applicable service academy; and
       (B) is determined to be medically disqualified to complete 
     a period of active duty in the Armed Forces prescribed in an 
     agreement signed by such cadet or midshipman in accordance 
     with section 4348, 6959, or 9348 of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (3) Exception.--A former cadet or midshipman whose medical 
     disqualification as described in paragraph (2)(B) is the 
     result of the gross negligence or misconduct of the former 
     cadet or midshipman is not an eligible individual for 
     purposes of appointment under a pilot program.
       (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the pilot programs conducted 
     under this section is to evaluate the feasibility and 
     advisability of permitting eligible individuals who cannot 
     accept a commission or complete a period of active duty in 
     the Armed Forces prescribed by the Secretary of the military 
     department concerned to fulfill an obligation for active duty 
     service in the Armed Forces through service as a civilian 
     employee of the Department of Defense.
       (c) Positions.--
       (1) In general.--The positions to which an eligible 
     individual may be appointed under a pilot program conducted 
     under this section are existing positions within the 
     Department of Defense in grades up to GS-9 under the General 
     Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code 
     (or equivalent). The authority in subsection (a) does not 
     authorize the creation of additional positions, or create any 
     vacancies to which eligible individuals may be appointed 
     under a pilot program.
       (2) Term positions.--Any appointment under a pilot program 
     shall be to a position having a term of five years or less.
       (d) Scope of Authority.--
       (1) Recruitment and retention of eligible individuals.--The 
     authority in subsection (a) may be used only to the extent 
     necessary to recruit and retain on a non-competitive basis 
     cadets and midshipmen who are relieved of an obligation for 
     active duty in the Armed Forces due to becoming medically 
     disqualified from serving on active duty in the Armed Forces, 
     and may not be used to appoint any other individuals in the 
     excepted service.
       (2) Voluntary acceptance of appointments.--A pilot program 
     conducted under this

[[Page H8737]]

     section may not be used as an implicit or explicit basis for 
     compelling an eligible individual to accept an appointment in 
     the excepted service in accordance with this section.
       (e) Relationship to Repayment Provisions.--Completion of a 
     term appointment pursuant to a pilot program conducted under 
     this section shall relieve the eligible individual concerned 
     of any repayment obligation under section 303a(e) or 373 of 
     title 37, United States Code, with respect to the agreement 
     of the individual described in subsection (a)(2)(B).
       (f) Termination.--
       (1) In general.--The authority to appoint eligible 
     individuals in the excepted service under a pilot program 
     conducted under this section shall expire on the date that is 
     four years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (2) Effect on existing appointments.--The termination by 
     paragraph (1) of the authority in subsection (a) shall not 
     affect any appointment made under that authority before the 
     termination date specified in paragraph (1) in accordance 
     with the terms of such appointment.
       (g) Reporting Requirement.--
       (1) Report required.--Not later than the date that is three 
     years after the date of the enactment of this Act, each 
     Secretary of a military department shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report containing an 
     evaluation of the effectiveness of the pilot program 
     conducted by such Secretary under this section, including the 
     number of eligible individuals appointed as civilian 
     employees of the Department of Defense under the program and 
     the retention rate for such employees.
       (2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             PART I--DEFENSE DEPENDENTS' EDUCATION MATTERS

     SEC. 551. ASSISTANCE TO SCHOOLS WITH MILITARY DEPENDENT 
                   STUDENTS.

       (a) Impact Aid for Children With Severe Disabilities.--
       (1) In general.--Of the amount authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal year 2018 pursuant to section 301 and 
     available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide 
     activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, 
     $10,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 
     of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2001 (20 U.S.C. 7703a).
       (2) Use of certain amount.--Of the amount available under 
     subsection (a) for payments as described in that subsection, 
     $5,000,000 shall be available for such payments to local 
     educational agencies determined by the Secretary of Defense, 
     in the discretion of the Secretary, to have higher 
     concentrations of military children with severe disabilities.
       (b) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of 
     Military Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal year 2018 by section 301 and 
     available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide 
     activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, 
     $40,000,000 shall be available only for the purpose of 
     providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
     subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 
     20 U.S.C. 7703b).
       (c) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7713(9)).

     SEC. 552. TRANSITIONS OF MILITARY DEPENDENT STUDENTS FROM 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DEPENDENT SCHOOLS TO 
                   OTHER SCHOOLS AND AMONG SCHOOLS OF LOCAL 
                   EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES.

       (a) Permanent Support Authority.--Section 574(c) of the 
     John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 20 U.S.C. 7703b note) is 
     amended by striking paragraph (3).
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 572(b) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 20 U.S.C. 7703b note) is amended by striking ``that 
     includes a request for the extension of section 574(c) of the 
     John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2007 shall include'' and inserting ``shall include, with 
     respect to section 574(c) of the John Warner National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 
     20 U.S.C. 7703b note),''.

     SEC. 553. REPORT ON EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES IN SCIENCE, 
                   TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS FOR 
                   CHILDREN WHO ARE DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE 
                   ARMED FORCES.

       Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report containing a 
     description and assessment of--
       (1) current Department of Defense programs intended to 
     improve educational opportunities and achievement in science, 
     technology, engineering, and mathematics for children who are 
     dependents of members of the Armed Forces; and
       (2) Department of Defense efforts to increase opportunities 
     and achievement in science, technology, engineering, and 
     mathematics for children who are dependents of members of the 
     Armed Forces.

               PART II--MILITARY FAMILY READINESS MATTERS

     SEC. 555. CODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT FAMILY SUPPORT 
                   PROGRAMS FOR IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS OF 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ASSIGNED TO SPECIAL 
                   OPERATIONS FORCES.

       (a) Codification of Existing Authority.--Chapter 88 of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
     section 1788 a new section 1788a consisting of--
       (1) a heading as follows:

     ``Sec. 1788a. Family support programs: immediate family 
       members of members of special operations forces''; and

       (2) a text consisting of subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) 
     of section 554 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 1788 note).
       (b) Reporting Requirement.--Section 1788a of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this 
     section, is further amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (d), as so added, as 
     subsection (c); and
       (2) by inserting after such subsection the following new 
     subsection (d):
       ``(d) Annual Report.--
       ``(1) Report required.--Not later than March 1, 2019, and 
     each March 1 thereafter, the Commander, in coordination with 
     the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     describing the progress made in achieving the goals of the 
     family support programs conducted under this section.
       ``(2) Elements of reports.--Each report under this 
     subsection shall include the following:
       ``(A) A detailed description of the programs conducted 
     under this section to address family support requirements for 
     family members of members of the armed forces assigned to 
     special operations forces.
       ``(B) An assessment of the impact of the programs on 
     military readiness and on family members of members of the 
     armed forces assigned to special operations forces.
       ``(C) A description of the special operations-peculiar 
     aspects of the programs and a comparison and differentiation 
     of these programs with other programs conducted by the 
     Secretaries of the military departments to provide family 
     support services to immediate family members of members of 
     the armed forces.
       ``(D) Recommendations for incorporating lessons learned 
     into other family support programs.
       ``(E) Any other matters the Commander considers appropriate 
     regarding the programs.''.
       (c) Funding.--Subsection (c) of section 1788a of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this 
     section and redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this 
     section, is amended by striking ``specified'' and all that 
     follows through the end of the subsection and inserting ``, 
     from funds available for Major Force Program 11, to carry out 
     family support programs under this section.''.
       (d) Elimination of Pilot Program References and Other 
     Conforming Amendments.--Section 1788a of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, is 
     further amended--
       (1) by striking ``Armed Forces'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``armed forces'';
       (2) by striking ``pilot'' each place it appears;
       (3) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Pilot''; and
       (B) by striking ``up to three'' and all that follows 
     through ``providing'' and inserting ``programs to provide''; 
     and
       (4) in subsection (e)--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``title 10, United States 
     Code'' and inserting ``this title''; and
       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``such title'' and 
     inserting ``this title''.
       (e) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter I of chapter 88 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating 
     to section 1788 the following new item:

``1788a. Family support programs: immediate family members of members 
              of special operations forces.''.
       (f) Conforming Repeal.--Section 554 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 
     U.S.C. 1788 note) is repealed.

     SEC. 556. REIMBURSEMENT FOR STATE LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION 
                   COSTS OF A SPOUSE OF A MEMBER OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES ARISING FROM RELOCATION TO ANOTHER 
                   STATE.

       (a) Reimbursement Authorized.--Section 476 of title 37, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(p)(1) From amounts otherwise made available for a fiscal 
     year to provide travel and transportation allowances under 
     this chapter, the Secretary concerned may reimburse a member 
     of the armed forces for qualified relicensing costs of the 
     spouse of the member when--
       ``(A) the member is reassigned, either as a permanent 
     change of station or permanent change of assignment, from a 
     duty station in one State to a duty station in another State; 
     and
       ``(B) the movement of the member's dependents is authorized 
     at the expense of the United States under this section as 
     part of the reassignment.
       ``(2) Reimbursement provided to a member under this 
     subsection may not exceed $500 in connection with each 
     reassignment described in paragraph (1).
       ``(3) Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security with respect to the Coast Guard, shall submit to the 
     congressional

[[Page H8738]]

     defense committees, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Government Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives a report--
       ``(A) describing the extent to which the reimbursement 
     authority provided by this subsection has been used; and
       ``(B) containing a recommendation by the Secretaries 
     regarding whether the authority should be extended beyond the 
     date specified in paragraph (4).
       ``(4) No reimbursement may be provided under this 
     subsection for qualified relicensing costs paid or incurred 
     after December 31, 2022.
       ``(5) In this subsection, the term `qualified relicensing 
     costs' means costs, including exam and registration fees, 
     that--
       ``(A) are imposed by the State of the new duty station to 
     secure a license or certification to engage in the same 
     profession that the spouse of the member engaged in while in 
     the State of the original duty station; and
       ``(B) are paid or incurred by the member or spouse to 
     secure the license or certification from the State of the new 
     duty station after the date on which the orders directing the 
     reassignment described in paragraph (1) are issued.''.
       (b) Development of Recommendations to Expedite License 
     Portability for Military Spouses.--
       (1) Consultation with states.--The Secretary of Defense, 
     and the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the 
     Coast Guard, shall consult with States--
       (A) to identify barriers to the portability between States 
     of a license, certification, or other grant of permission 
     held by the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces to engage 
     in an occupation when the spouse moves between States as part 
     of a permanent change of station or permanent change of 
     assignment of the member; and
       (B) to develop recommendations for the Federal Government 
     and the States, together or separately, to expedite the 
     portability of such licenses, certifications, and other 
     grants of permission for military spouses.
       (2) Specific considerations.--In conducting the 
     consultation and preparing the recommendations under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall consider the feasibility 
     of--
       (A) States accepting licenses, certifications, and other 
     grants of permission described in paragraph (1) issued by 
     another State and in good standing in that State;
       (B) the issuance of a temporary license pending completion 
     of State-specific requirements; and
       (C) the establishment of an expedited review process for 
     military spouses.
       (3) Report required.--Not later than March 15, 2018, the 
     Secretaries shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees and the States a report containing the 
     recommendations developed under this subsection.
       (4) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the Senate, and 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House 
     of Representatives.

     SEC. 557. TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF EXTENDED PERIOD OF 
                   PROTECTIONS FOR MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES 
                   RELATING TO MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE, 
                   AND EVICTION.

       Section 710(d) of the Honoring America's Veterans and 
     Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-
     154; 50 U.S.C. 3953 note) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2019''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``January 1, 2018'' and 
     inserting ``January 1, 2020''.

     SEC. 558. ENHANCING MILITARY CHILDCARE PROGRAMS AND 
                   ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Hours of Operation of Military Childcare Development 
     Centers.--Each Secretary of a military department shall 
     ensure, to the extent practicable, that the hours of 
     operation of each childcare development center under the 
     jurisdiction of the Secretary are established and maintained 
     in manner that takes into account the demands and 
     circumstances of members of the Armed Forces, including 
     members of the reserve components, who use such center in 
     facilitation of the performance of their military duties.
       (b) Matters to Be Taken Into Account.--The demands and 
     circumstances to be taken into account under subsection (a) 
     for purposes of setting and maintaining the hours of 
     operation of a childcare development center shall include the 
     following:
       (1) Mission requirements of units whose members use the 
     childcare development center.
       (2) The unpredictability of work schedules, and 
     fluctuations in day-to-day work hours, of such members.
       (3) The potential for frequent and prolonged absences of 
     such members for training, operations, and deployments.
       (4) The location of the childcare development center on the 
     military installation concerned, including the location in 
     connection with duty locations of members and applicable 
     military family housing.
       (5) Such other matters as the Secretary of the military 
     department concerned considers appropriate for purposes of 
     this section.
       (c) Childcare Coordinators for Military Installations.--
     Each Secretary of a military department may provide for a 
     childcare coordinator at each military installation under the 
     jurisdiction of the Secretary at which are stationed 
     significant numbers of members of the Armed Forces with 
     accompanying dependent children, as determined by the 
     Secretary. The childcare coordinator may work with the 
     commander of the installation to ensure that childcare is 
     available and responsive to the needs of members assigned to 
     the installation.

     SEC. 559. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR 
                   CHILDCARE SERVICES PROVIDERS FOR DEPARTMENT 
                   CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may appoint, 
     without regard to any provision of subchapter I of chapter 33 
     of title 5, United States Code, qualified childcare services 
     providers in the competitive service if the Secretary 
     determines that--
       (1) there is a critical hiring need for childcare services 
     providers for Department of Defense child development 
     centers; and
       (2) there is a shortage of childcare services providers.
       (b) Regulations.--The Secretary shall carry out this 
     section in accordance with regulations prescribed by the 
     Secretary for purposes of this section.
       (c) Deadline for Implementation.--The Secretary shall 
     prescribe the regulations required by subsection (b), and 
     commence implementation of subsection (a), by not later than 
     May 1, 2018.
       (d) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2019 and 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives, the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
     of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate on 
     the use of the appointment authority provided by subsection 
     (a).
       (e) Childcare Services Provider Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``childcare services provider'' means a person who 
     provides childcare services for dependent children of members 
     of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department 
     of Defense in child development centers on Department 
     installations.
       (f) Expiration of Authority.--The appointment authority 
     provided by subsection (a) expires on September 30, 2021.

     SEC. 560. PILOT PROGRAM ON PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS FOR 
                   TELEWORK FACILITIES FOR MILITARY SPOUSES ON 
                   MILITARY INSTALLATIONS OUTSIDE THE UNITED 
                   STATES.

       (a) In General.--Commencing not later than one year after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall carry out a pilot program to assess the 
     feasability and advisability of providing telework facilities 
     for military spouses on military installations outside the 
     United States. The Secretary shall consult with the host 
     nation or nations concerned in carrying out the pilot 
     program.
       (b) Number of Installations.--The Secretary shall carry out 
     the pilot program at not less than two military installations 
     outside the United States selected by the Secretary for 
     purposes of the pilot program.
       (c) Duration.--The duration of the pilot program shall be a 
     period selected by the Secretary, but not more than three 
     years.
       (d) Elements.--The pilot program shall include the 
     following elements:
       (1) The pilot program shall be conducted as one or more 
     public-private partnerships between the Department of Defense 
     and a private corporation or partnership of private 
     corporations.
       (2) The corporation or corporations participating in the 
     pilot program shall contribute to the carrying out of the 
     pilot program an amount equal to the amount committed by the 
     Secretary to the pilot program at the time of its 
     commencement.
       (3) The Secretary shall enter into one or more memoranda of 
     understanding with the corporation or corporations 
     participating in the pilot program for purposes of the pilot 
     program, including the amounts to be contributed by such 
     corporation or corporations pursuant to paragraph (2).
       (4) The telework undertaken by military spouses under the 
     pilot program may only be for United States companies.
       (5) The pilot program shall permit military spouses to 
     provide administrative, informational technology, 
     professional, and other necessary support to companies 
     through telework from Department installations outside the 
     United States.
       (e) Funding.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated 
     for fiscal year 2018 by section 421 and available for 
     military personnel as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4401, up to $1,000,000 may be available to carry out 
     the pilot program, including entry into memoranda of 
     understanding pursuant to subsection (d)(3) and payment by 
     the Secretary of the amount committed by the Secretary to the 
     pilot program pursuant to subsection (d)(2).

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

     SEC. 561. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO 
                   GARLIN M. CONNER FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING WORLD 
                   WAR II.

       (a) Waiver of Time Limitations.--Notwithstanding the time 
     limitations specified in section 3744 of title 10, United 
     States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the 
     awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed 
     Forces, the President may award the Medal of Honor under 
     section 3741 of such title to Garlin M. Conner for the acts 
     of valor during World War II described in subsection (b).
       (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to 
     in subsection (a) are the actions of Garlin M. Conner during 
     combat on January 24, 1945, as a member of the United States 
     Army in the grade of First Lieutenant in France while serving 
     with Company K, 3d Battalion, 7th Infantry Regiment, 3d 
     Infantry Division, for which he was previously awarded the 
     Distinguished-Service Cross.

[[Page H8739]]

  


     SEC. 562. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF DISTINGUISHED-SERVICE 
                   CROSS TO SPECIALIST FRANK M. CRARY FOR ACTS OF 
                   VALOR IN VIETNAM.

       (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations 
     specified in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or 
     any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of 
     certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the 
     President may award the Distinguished-Service Cross under 
     section 3742 of such title to Specialist Frank M. Crary for 
     the acts of valor in Vietnam described in subsection (b).
       (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to 
     in subsection (a) are the actions of Frank M. Crary on April 
     7, 1966, as a member of the Army serving in the grade of 
     Specialist in Vietnam while serving with Company D, 1st 
     Battalion (Airborne), 12th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry 
     Division.

            Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

     SEC. 571. ANALYSIS AND REPORT ON ACCOMPANIED AND 
                   UNACCOMPANIED TOURS OF DUTY IN REMOTE LOCATIONS 
                   WITH HIGH FAMILY SUPPORT COSTS.

       (a) Analysis Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     conduct a comparative analysis of accompanied tours of duty 
     and unaccompanied tours of duty of members of the Armed 
     Forces in remote locations with high family support costs 
     (including facility construction and operation costs), 
     including--
       (1) the Azores;
       (2) United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba;
       (3) Okinawa, Japan;
       (4) the Republic of Korea;
       (5) Kwajalein Atoll;
       (6) Al Udeid Air Base, Qatar; and
       (7) such other locations as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate for purposes of the analysis.
       (b) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than one year after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a report containing the results of the analysis conducted 
     under subsection (a).

     SEC. 572. REVIEW AND REPORTS ON POLICIES FOR REGULAR AND 
                   RESERVE OFFICER CAREER MANAGEMENT.

       (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
     departments, shall conduct a review of the policies of the 
     Department of Defense for the career management of regular 
     and reserve officers of the Armed Forces pursuant to the 
     Defense Officer Personnel Management Act (commonly referred 
     to as ``DOPMA'') and the Reserve Officer Personnel Management 
     Act (commonly referred to as ``ROPMA'').
       (b) Elements of Review.--The review required by subsection 
     (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A statistical analysis, based on exit surveys and other 
     data available to the military departments, on the impact 
     that current personnel policies under the Defense Officer 
     Personnel Management Act have on recruiting and retention of 
     qualified regular and reserve officers of the Armed Forces. 
     Specifically, the statistical analysis shall include an 
     estimate of the number of officers who leave the Armed Forces 
     each year because of dissatisfaction with the current 
     personnel policies, including career progression, promotion 
     policies, and a perceived lack of opportunity for schooling 
     and broadening assignments.
       (2) An analysis of the extent to which current personnel 
     policies inhibit the professional development of officers.
       (3) An analysis of the impact that increased flexibility in 
     promotion, assignments, and career length would have on 
     officer competency in their military occupational 
     specialties.
       (4) An analysis of the efficacy of officer talent 
     management systems currently used by the military 
     departments.
       (5) An analysis of the benefits and limitations of the 
     current promotion timelines and the ``up-or-out'' system 
     required by policy and law.
       (6) An analysis of the reasons and frequency with which 
     officers in the grade of O-3 or above are passed over for 
     promotion to the next higher grade, particularly those 
     officers who have pursued advanced degrees, broadening 
     assignments, and non-traditional career patterns.
       (7) The utility and feasibility of creating new competitive 
     categories or an independent career and promotion path for 
     officers in low-density military occupational specialties.
       (8) An analysis of how best to encourage and facilitate the 
     recruitment and retention of officers with technical 
     expertise.
       (9) The utility and feasibility of encouraging officers to 
     pursue careers of lengths that vary from the traditional 20-
     year military career and the mechanisms that could be 
     employed to encourage officers to pursue these varying career 
     lengths.
       (10) An analysis of what actions have been or could be 
     taken within current statutory authority to address officer 
     management challenges.
       (11) An analysis of what actions can be taken by the Armed 
     Forces to change the institutional culture regarding commonly 
     held perceptions on appropriate promotion timelines, career 
     progression, and traditional career patterns.
       (12) An analysis of how the Armed Forces can avoid an 
     officer corps disproportionately weighted toward officers 
     serving in the grades of major, lieutenant colonel, and 
     colonel and Navy grades of lieutenant commander, commander, 
     and captain, if statutory officer grade caps are relaxed.
       (13) The utility and feasibility of allowing officers to 
     repeatedly and seamlessly transition between active duty and 
     reserve active-status throughout the course of their military 
     careers.
       (14) An analysis of the current officer force-shaping 
     authorities and any changes needed to these authorities to 
     improve recruiting, retention, and readiness.
       (15) An analysis of any other matters the Secretary of 
     Defense considers appropriate to improve the effective 
     recruitment and retention of officers.
       (c) Reporting Requirements.--
       (1) Initial report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report evaluating the impact on officer retention of granting 
     promotion boards the authority to recommend officers of 
     particular merit be placed at the top of the promotion list.
       (2) Complete report.--Not later than July 31, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report setting forth the results of the review conducted 
     under subsection (a).
       (3) Scope of report.--If any recommendation of the 
     Secretary of Defense in a report required by this subsection 
     requires legislative or administrative action for 
     implementation, the report shall include a proposal for 
     legislative action, or a description of administrative 
     action, as applicable, to implement such recommendation.

     SEC. 573. REVIEW AND REPORT ON EFFECTS OF PERSONNEL 
                   REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS ON THE 
                   AVAILABILITY OF MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD 
                   FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF FUNERAL HONORS DUTY FOR 
                   VETERANS.

       (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     undertake a review of the effects of the personnel 
     requirements and limitations described in subsection (b) with 
     respect to the members of the National Guard in order to 
     determine whether or not such requirements unduly limit the 
     ability of the Armed Forces to meet the demand for personnel 
     to perform funeral honors in connection with funerals of 
     veterans.
       (b) Personnel Requirements and Limitations.--The personnel 
     requirements and limitations described in this subsection are 
     the following:
       (1) Requirements, such as the ceiling on the authorized 
     number of members of the National Guard on active duty 
     pursuant to section 115(b)(2)(B) of title 10, United States 
     Code, or end-strength limitations, that may operate to limit 
     the number of members of the National Guard available for the 
     performance of funeral honors duty.
       (2) Any other requirements or limitations applicable to the 
     reserve components of the Armed Forces in general, or the 
     National Guard in particular, that may operate to limit the 
     number of members of the National Guard available for the 
     performance of funeral honors duty.
       (c) Report.--Not later than six months after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report on the review undertaken pursuant to 
     subsection (a). The report shall include the following:
       (1) A description of the review.
       (2) Such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate in light of the review for legislative or 
     administrative action to expand the number of members of the 
     National Guard available for the performance of funeral 
     honors functions at funerals of veterans.

     SEC. 574. REVIEW AND REPORT ON AUTHORITIES FOR THE 
                   EMPLOYMENT, USE, AND STATUS OF NATIONAL GUARD 
                   AND RESERVE TECHNICIANS.

       (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     conduct a review of the following:
       (1) Authority for the employment, use, and status of 
     National Guard technicians under section 709 of title 32, 
     United States Code (commonly referred to as the National 
     Guard Technicians Act of 1968).
       (2) Authorities for the employment, use, and status of 
     National Guard and Reserve technicians under sections 10216 
     through 10218 of title 10, United States Code.
       (3) Any other authorities on the employment, use, and 
     status of National Guard and Reserve technicians under law.
       (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the review under subsection 
     (a) shall be as follows:
       (1) To define the mission and requirements of National 
     Guard and Reserve technicians.
       (2) To identify means to improve the management and 
     administration of the National Guard and Reserve technician 
     workforce.
       (3) To identify means to enhance the capability of the 
     Department of Defense to recruit and retain National Guard 
     and Reserve technicians.
       (4) To assess the current career progression tracks of 
     National Guard and Reserve technicians.
       (c) Consultation.--In conducting the review under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall consult with 
     the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, the Chief of Army 
     Reserve, the Chief of Air Force Reserve, and representatives 
     of National Guard and Reserve technicians, including 
     collective bargaining representatives of such technicians.
       (d) Inclusion of Recent Authorities in Review.--The 
     Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the review conducted 
     under subsection (a) takes into account authorities, and 
     modifications of authorities, for the employment, use, and 
     status of National Guard and Reserve technicians contained in 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92) and the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328).
       (e) Required Review Elements.--In meeting the purposes of 
     the review conducted under subsection (a), as set forth in 
     subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall address, in 
     particular, the following:
       (1) The extent to which National Guard and Reserve 
     technicians are assigned military duties

[[Page H8740]]

     inconsistent with, or of a different nature than, their 
     civilian duties, the impact of such assignments on unit 
     readiness, and the effect of such assignments on the career 
     progression of technicians.
       (2) The use by the Department of Defense (especially within 
     the National Guard) of selective retention boards to separate 
     National Guard and Reserve technicians from military service 
     (with the effect of thereby separating them from civilian 
     service) before they accrue a full, unreduced retirement 
     annuity in connection with Federal civilian service, and 
     whether that use is consistent with the authority in section 
     10216(f) of title 10, United States Code, that technicians be 
     permitted to remain in service past their mandatory 
     separation date until they qualify for an unreduced 
     retirement annuity.
       (3) The impact on recruitment and retention, and the 
     budgetary impact, of permitting National Guard and Reserve 
     technicians who receive an enlistment incentive before 
     becoming a technician to retain such incentive upon becoming 
     a technician.
       (f) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than April 1, 2018, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     a report containing--
       (1) the results of the review conducted under subsection 
     (a), including a discussion of the matters set forth in 
     subsections (b) and (e); and
       (2) such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
     action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the 
     review in order to improve and enhance the employment, use, 
     and status of National Guard and Reserve technicians.

     SEC. 575. ASSESSMENT AND REPORT ON EXPANDING AND CONTRACTING 
                   FOR CHILDCARE SERVICES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     conduct an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
     the following:
       (1) Expanding the operating hours of childcare facilities 
     of the Department of Defense in order to meet childcare 
     services requirements for swing-shift, night-shift, and 
     weekend workers.
       (2) Using contracts with private-sector childcare services 
     providers to expand the availability of childcare services 
     for members of the Armed Forces at locations outside military 
     installations at costs similar to the current costs for 
     childcare services through child development centers on 
     military installations.
       (3) Contracting with private-sector childcare services 
     providers to operate childcare facilities of the Department 
     on military installations.
       (4) Expanding childcare services as described in paragraphs 
     (1) through (3) to members of the National Guard and Reserves 
     in a manner that does not substantially raise costs of 
     childcare services for the military departments or conflict 
     with others who have a higher priority for space in childcare 
     services programs, such as members of the Armed Forces on 
     active duty.
       (b) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than September 1, 
     2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees 
     on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report containing the results of the 
     assessment conducted under subsection (a).

     SEC. 576. REVIEW AND REPORT ON COMPENSATION PROVIDED 
                   CHILDCARE SERVICES PROVIDERS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     conduct a review of the compensation provided for childcare 
     services providers within the Department of Defense, 
     including positions subject to General Schedule pay grades 
     and positions occupied by nonappropriated fund 
     instrumentality employees.
       (b) Elements of Review.--The review conducted under 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A comparison of the compensation provided for childcare 
     services provider positions within the Department with the 
     compensation provided to childcare services providers in the 
     private sector who provide similar childcare services.
       (2) An assessment of the mix of General Schedule pay grades 
     and compensation levels for nonappropriated fund 
     instrumentality employees currently required by the 
     Department to most effectively recruit and retain childcare 
     services providers for dependents of members of the Armed 
     Forces.
       (3) A comparison of the budget implications of the current 
     General Schedule pay grade mix and nonappropriated fund 
     instrumentality compensation levels with the pay grade mix 
     and compensation levels determined pursuant to paragraph (2) 
     to be required by the Department to most effectively recruit 
     and retain childcare services providers for dependents of 
     members of the Armed Forces.
       (c) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than September 1, 
     2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees 
     on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report containing the results of the review 
     conducted under subsection (a).

     SEC. 577. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES ASSESSMENT 
                   AND REPORT ON THE OFFICE OF COMPLEX 
                   INVESTIGATIONS WITHIN THE NATIONAL GUARD 
                   BUREAU.

       (a) Assessment Required.--The Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall conduct an assessment on the purpose, 
     structure, and effectiveness of the Office of Complex 
     Investigations within the National Guard Bureau.
       (b) Elements of Assessment.--The assessment conducted under 
     subsection (a) shall address the following:
       (1) The purpose of the Office of Complex Investigations and 
     the criteria used to determine which cases will be 
     investigated by the office.
       (2) The services provided by the Office of Complex 
     Investigations.
       (3) The authority under which the Office of Complex 
     Investigations may investigate violations of State law.
       (4) The structure of the Office of Complex Investigations, 
     including--
       (A) the number of individuals assigned, both permanently 
     and temporarily, to the office;
       (B) the organizational structure of the office; and
       (C) the annual budget of the office, the source of funding, 
     and the extent to which States are required to reimburse the 
     Department of Defense for activities conducted by the office.
       (5) The extent to which the investigations conducted by the 
     Office of Complex Investigations could be conducted by 
     another State or Federal entity.
       (6) The policies governing the Office of Complex 
     Investigations, and the extent to which the office adheres to 
     these policies.
       (7) The training provided to investigators and other 
     employees of the Office of Complex Investigations.
       (8) Any other matters the Comptroller General considers 
     relevant to the assessment.
       (c) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than October 31, 
     2018, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees 
     on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report containing the results of the 
     assessment conducted under subsection (a).

     SEC. 578. MODIFICATION OF SUBMITTAL DATE OF COMPTROLLER 
                   GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON 
                   INTEGRITY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAM.

       Section 536(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2124) is 
     amended by striking ``18 months after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.

                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

     SEC. 581. EXPANSION OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF 
                   TECHNOLOGY ENROLLMENT AUTHORITY TO INCLUDE 
                   CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE HOMELAND SECURITY 
                   INDUSTRY.

       (a) Definition.--Subsection (b) of section 9314a of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Covered Private Sector Employee Defined.--(1) In this 
     section, the term `covered private sector employee' means--
       ``(A) an individual employed by a private firm that is 
     engaged in providing to the Department of Defense significant 
     and substantial defense-related systems, products, or 
     services; or
       ``(B) an individual employed by a private firm in one of 
     the critical infrastructure sectors identified in 
     Presidential Policy Directive 21 (Critical Infrastructure 
     Security and Resilience).
       ``(2) A covered private sector employee admitted for 
     instruction at the United States Air Force Institute of 
     Technology remains eligible for such instruction only so long 
     as the person remains employed by the same firm.''.
       (b) Use of Defined Term.--Section 9314a of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking ``defense industry employees described in 
     subsection (b)'' and inserting ``a covered private sector 
     employee''; and
       (ii) by striking ``Any such defense industry employee'' and 
     inserting ``A covered private sector employee'';
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``defense industry 
     employees'' and inserting ``covered private sector 
     employees''; and
       (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``defense industry 
     employee'' both places it appears and inserting ``covered 
     private sector employee'';
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) by striking ``Defense industry employees'' and 
     inserting ``A covered private sector employee''; and
       (B) by striking ``defense industry employees'' and 
     inserting ``covered private sector employees'';
       (3) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``defense industry 
     employees'' and inserting ``a covered private sector 
     employee''; and
       (4) in subsection (f), by striking ``defense industry 
     employees'' and inserting ``covered private sector 
     employees''.
       (c) Other Conforming Amendments.--Section 9314a of title 
     10, United States Code, is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``a defense focused'' 
     and inserting ``a defense-focused or homeland security-
     focused''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or homeland security'' 
     after ``and defense''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the period at the 
     end the following: ``or the Department of Homeland Security, 
     as applicable''.
       (d) Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 9314a of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 9314a. United States Air Force Institute of 
       Technology: admission of certain private sector 
       civilians''.

       (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 901 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 9314a and 
     inserting the following new item:

``9314a. United States Air Force Institute of Technology: admission of 
              certain private sector civilians.''.

     SEC. 582. CONDITIONAL DESIGNATION OF EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE 
                   DISPOSAL CORPS AS A BASIC BRANCH OF THE ARMY.

       (a) Conditional Designation.--Subject to subsection (b), 
     section 3063(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--

[[Page H8741]]

       (1) in paragraph (12), by striking ``and'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (13) as paragraph (14); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (12) the following new 
     paragraph (13):
       ``(13) Explosive Ordnance Disposal Corps; and''.
       (b) Delayed Effective Date and Condition on Execution.--
       (1) Effective date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on October 1, 2020, but only if the report 
     required by paragraph (2) is not submitted before that date 
     as required by such paragraph.
       (2) Reporting requirement.--Not later than September 30, 
     2020, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report containing certifications that the 
     following actions have occurred as of that date:
       (A) The defense budget materials display funding 
     requirements for explosive ordnance disposal separately and a 
     program of record is established and maintained for explosive 
     ordnance disposal.
       (B) A process has been established to ensure that, by not 
     later than five years after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, there is, and will continue to be, at least one general 
     officer in the Army qualified regarding issues involving 
     explosive ordnance disposal to ensure officer professional 
     development and upward mobility.
       (C) The Ordnance Personnel Proponency Office is, and will 
     continue to be, manned with an explosive ordnance disposal 
     officer to oversee explosive ordnance disposal officer and 
     enlisted personnel proponency.
       (D) Explosive ordnance disposal officer education has been 
     included in a basic officer leadership course, a captains 
     career course, and a policy and planning course specific to 
     explosive ordnance disposal as part of intermediate level 
     education and pre-command courses.
       (E) The office of the Army Deputy Chief of Staff, G8, and 
     the office of the Army Deputy Chief of Staff, G3, have, and 
     will continue to be, manned with explosive ordnance disposal 
     officers responsible for the decision management decision 
     packages, ammunition organizational integration, and force 
     modernization related to explosive ordnance disposal.
       (F) The Army has established and maintained explosive 
     ordnance disposal cells at the Army Forces Command, Army 
     Service Component Commands, Army Special Operations Command, 
     Army Training and Doctrine Command, and the Army Capability 
     and Integration Center.
       (3) Notice of report.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
     notify the Law Revision Counsel of the House of 
     Representatives of the submission of the report under 
     paragraph (2) so that the Law Revision Counsel does not 
     execute the amendments made by subsection (a).

     SEC. 583. DESIGNATION OF OFFICE WITHIN OFFICE OF THE 
                   SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO OVERSEE USE OF FOOD 
                   ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS BY MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES ON ACTIVE DUTY.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate an office 
     or official within the Office of the Secretary of Defense for 
     purposes as follows:
       (1) To discharge responsibility for overseeing the efforts 
     of the Department of Defense to collect, analyze, and monitor 
     data on the use of food assistance programs by members of the 
     Armed Forces on active duty.
       (2) To establish and maintain relationships with other 
     departments and agencies of the Federal Government to 
     facilitate the discharge of the responsibility specified in 
     paragraph (1).

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Annual adjustment of basic monthly pay.
Sec. 602. Prohibiting collection of additional amounts from members 
              living in units under Military Housing Privatization 
              Initiative.
Sec. 603. Limitation on modification of payment authority for Military 
              Housing Privatization Initiative housing.
Sec. 604. Housing treatment for certain members of the Armed Forces, 
              and their spouses and other dependents, undergoing a 
              permanent change of station within the United States.
Sec. 605. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates 
              of basic allowance for housing under certain 
              circumstances.
Sec. 606. Reevaluation of BAH for the military housing area including 
              Staten Island.

            Subtitle B--Bonus and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
              authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
              authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
              nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
              consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
              authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of 
              other title 37 bonuses and special pays.
Sec. 616. Report regarding the national pilot shortage.
Sec. 617. Special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities for 
              enlisted members who operate remotely piloted aircraft.
Sec. 618. Technical and conforming amendments relating to 2008 
              consolidation of special pay authorities.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Permanent extension and cost-of-living adjustments of special 
              survivor indemnity allowances under the Survivor Benefit 
              Plan.
Sec. 622. Adjustments to Survivor Benefit Plan for members electing 
              lump sum payments of retired pay under the modernized 
              retirement system for members of the uniformed services.
Sec. 623. Technical correction regarding election to participate in 
              modernized retirement system for reserve component 
              members experiencing a break in service.
Sec. 624. Technical corrections to use of member's current pay grade 
              and years of service in a division of property involving 
              disposable retired pay.
Sec. 625. Continuation pay for the Coast Guard.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 631. Land conveyance authority, Army and Air Force Exchange 
              Service property, Dallas, Texas.
Sec. 632. Authority for the Secretaries of the military departments to 
              provide for care of remains of those who die on active 
              duty and are interred in a foreign cemetery.
Sec. 633. Construction of domestic source requirement for footwear 
              furnished to enlisted members of the Armed Forces on 
              initial entry into the Armed Forces.
Sec. 634. Review and update of regulations governing debt collectors 
              interactions with unit commanders of members of the Armed 
              Forces.

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

     SECTION 601. ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT OF BASIC MONTHLY PAY.

       The adjustment in the rates of monthly basic pay required 
     by subsection (a) of section 1009 of title 37, United States 
     Code, to be made on January 1, 2018, shall take effect, 
     notwithstanding any determination made by the President under 
     subsection (e) of such section with respect to an alternative 
     pay adjustment to be made on such date.

     SEC. 602. PROHIBITING COLLECTION OF ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS FROM 
                   MEMBERS LIVING IN UNITS UNDER MILITARY HOUSING 
                   PRIVATIZATION INITIATIVE.

       (a) Prohibition.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2886. Prohibiting collection of amounts in addition to 
       rent from members assigned to units

       ``(a) Prohibition.--An agreement for acquiring or 
     constructing a military family housing unit or military 
     unaccompanied housing unit under this subchapter which is 
     entered into between the Secretary and an eligible entity 
     shall prohibit the entity from imposing on a member of the 
     armed forces who occupies the unit a supplemental payment, 
     such as an out-of-pocket fee, in addition to the amount of 
     rent the eligible entity charges for a unit of similar size 
     and composition, without regard to whether or not the amount 
     of the member's basic allowance for housing is less than the 
     amount of the rent.
       ``(b) Permitting Certain Additional Payments.--Nothing in 
     this section shall be construed to prohibit an eligible 
     entity from imposing an additional payment for optional 
     services provided to residents, such as access to a gym or a 
     parking space, or an additional payment for non-essential 
     utility services, as determined in accordance with 
     regulations promulgated by the Secretary.
       ``(c) No Effect on Rental Guarantees or Differential Lease 
     Payments.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
     limit or otherwise affect the authority of the Secretary to 
     enter into rental guarantee agreements under section 2876 of 
     this title or to make differential lease payments under 
     section 2877 of this title, so long as such agreements or 
     payments do not require a member of the armed forces who is 
     assigned to a military family housing unit or military 
     unaccompanied housing unit under this subchapter to pay an 
     out-of-pocket fee or payment in addition to the member's 
     basic housing allowance.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for 
     subchapter IV of chapter 169 of such title is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new item:

``2886. Prohibiting collection of amounts in addition to rent from 
              members assigned to units.''.

     SEC. 603. LIMITATION ON MODIFICATION OF PAYMENT AUTHORITY FOR 
                   MILITARY HOUSING PRIVATIZATION INITIATIVE 
                   HOUSING.

       (a) In General.--For each month during 2018, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall pay to a lessor of covered housing 1 percent 
     of the amount calculated under section 403(b)(3)(A)(i) of 
     title 37, United States Code, for the area in which the 
     covered housing exists.
       (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``covered 
     housing'' means a unit of housing--
       (1) acquired or constructed under the alternative authority 
     of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States 
     Code (known as the Military Housing Privatization 
     Initiative);
       (2) that is leased to a member of a uniformed service who 
     resides in such unit; and
       (3) for which the lessor charges such member rent that 
     equals or exceeds the amount calculated under section 
     403(b)(3)(A) of title 37, United States Code.

[[Page H8742]]

       (c) GAO Review.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate a review of the following:
       (1) The management of the Military Housing Privatization 
     Initiative to date.
       (2) Plans for the Military Housing Privatization Initiative 
     after March 1, 2018.
       (3) The viability of the Military Housing Privatization 
     Initiative after March 1, 2018.
       (4) Alternatives to the Military Housing Privatization 
     Initiative.

     SEC. 604. HOUSING TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES, AND THEIR SPOUSES AND OTHER DEPENDENTS, 
                   UNDERGOING A PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION WITHIN 
                   THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) Housing Treatment.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 7 of title 37, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after section 403 the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 403a. Housing treatment for certain members of the 
       armed forces, and their spouses and other dependents, 
       undergoing a permanent change of station within the United 
       States

       ``(a) Housing Treatment for Certain Members Who Have a 
     Spouse or Other Dependents.--
       ``(1) Housing treatment regulations.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall prescribe regulations that permit a member of 
     the armed forces described in paragraph (2) who is undergoing 
     a permanent change of station within the United States to 
     request the housing treatment described in subsection (b) 
     during the covered relocation period of the member.
       ``(2) Eligible members.--A member described in this 
     paragraph is any member who--
       ``(A) has a spouse who is gainfully employed or enrolled in 
     a degree, certificate or license granting program at the 
     beginning of the covered relocation period;
       ``(B) has one or more dependents attending an elementary or 
     secondary school at the beginning of the covered relocation 
     period;
       ``(C) has one or more dependents enrolled in the 
     Exceptional Family Member Program; or
       ``(D) is caring for an immediate family member with a 
     chronic or long-term illness at the beginning of the covered 
     relocation period.
       ``(b) Housing Treatment.--
       ``(1) Continuation of housing for the spouse and other 
     dependents.--If a spouse or other dependent of a member whose 
     request under subsection (a) is approved resides in 
     Government-owned or Government-leased housing at the 
     beginning of the covered relocation period, the spouse or 
     other dependent may continue to reside in such housing during 
     a period determined in accordance with the regulations 
     prescribed pursuant to this section.
       ``(2) Early housing eligibility.--If a spouse or other 
     dependent of a member whose request under subsection (a) is 
     approved is eligible to reside in Government-owned or 
     Government-leased housing following the member's permanent 
     change of station within the United States, the spouse or 
     other dependent may commence residing in such housing at any 
     time during the covered relocation period.
       ``(3) Temporary use of government-owned or government-
     leased housing intended for members without a spouse or 
     dependent.--If a spouse or other dependent of a member 
     relocates at a time different from the member in accordance 
     with a request approved under subsection (a), the member may 
     be assigned to Government-owned or Government-leased housing 
     intended for the permanent housing of members without a 
     spouse or dependent until the member's detachment date or the 
     spouse or other dependent's arrival date, but only if such 
     Government-owned or Government-leased housing is available 
     without displacing a member without a spouse or dependent at 
     such housing.
       ``(4) Equitable basic allowance for housing.--If a spouse 
     or other dependent of a member relocates at a time different 
     from the member in accordance with a request approved under 
     subsection (a), the amount of basic allowance for housing 
     payable may be based on whichever of the following areas the 
     Secretary concerned determines to be the most equitable:
       ``(A) The area of the duty station to which the member is 
     reassigned.
       ``(B) The area in which the spouse or other dependent 
     resides, but only if the spouse or other dependent resides in 
     that area when the member departs for the duty station to 
     which the member is reassigned, and only for the period 
     during which the spouse or other dependent resides in that 
     area.
       ``(C) The area of the former duty station of the member, 
     but only if that area is different from the area in which the 
     spouse or other dependent resides.
       ``(c) Rule of Construction Related to Certain Basic 
     Allowance for Housing Payments.--Nothing in this section 
     shall be construed to limit the payment or the amount of 
     basic allowance for housing payable under section 
     403(d)(3)(A) of this title to a member whose request under 
     subsection (a) is approved.
       ``(d) Housing Treatment Education.--The regulations 
     prescribed pursuant to this section shall ensure the 
     relocation assistance programs under section 1056 of title 10 
     include, as part of the assistance normally provided under 
     such section, education about the housing treatment available 
     under this section.
       ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Covered relocation period.--(A) Subject to 
     subparagraph (B), the term `covered relocation period', when 
     used with respect to a permanent change of station of a 
     member of the armed forces, means the period that--
       ``(i) begins 180 days before the date of the permanent 
     change of station; and
       ``(ii) ends 180 days after the date of the permanent change 
     of station.
       ``(B) The regulations prescribed pursuant to this section 
     may provide for a shortening or lengthening of the covered 
     relocation period of a member for purposes of this section.
       ``(2) Dependent.--The term `dependent' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 401 of this title.
       ``(3) Permanent change of station.--The term `permanent 
     change of station' means a permanent change of station 
     described in section 452(b)(2) of t his title.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 7 such title is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 403 the following new 
     item:

``403a. Housing treatment for certain members of the armed forces, and 
              their spouses and other dependents, undergoing a 
              permanent change of station within the United States.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on October 1, 2018.

     SEC. 605. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE TEMPORARY 
                   INCREASE IN RATES OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR 
                   HOUSING UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.

       Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018''.

     SEC. 606. REEVALUATION OF BAH FOR THE MILITARY HOUSING AREA 
                   INCLUDING STATEN ISLAND.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense, using the most recent 
     data available to the Secretary, shall reevaluate the basic 
     housing allowance prescribed under section 403(b) of title 
     37, United States Code, for the military housing area that 
     includes Staten Island, New York.

            Subtitle B--Bonus and Special and Incentive Pays

     SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
                   AUTHORITIES FOR RESERVE FORCES.

       The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 308b(g), relating to Selected Reserve 
     reenlistment bonus.
       (2) Section 308c(i), relating to Selected Reserve 
     affiliation or enlistment bonus.
       (3) Section 308d(c), relating to special pay for enlisted 
     members assigned to certain high-priority units.
       (4) Section 308g(f)(2), relating to Ready Reserve 
     enlistment bonus for persons without prior service.
       (5) Section 308h(e), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment 
     and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
       (6) Section 308i(f), relating to Selected Reserve 
     enlistment and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior 
     service.
       (7) Section 478a(e), relating to reimbursement of travel 
     expenses for inactive-duty training outside of normal 
     commuting distance.
       (8) Section 910(g), relating to income replacement payments 
     for reserve component members experiencing extended and 
     frequent mobilization for active duty service.

     SEC. 612. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
                   AUTHORITIES FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS.

       (a) Title 10 Authorities.--The following sections of title 
     10, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 
     31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer 
     candidate accession program.
       (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education 
     loans for certain health professionals who serve in the 
     Selected Reserve.
       (b) Title 37 Authorities.--The following sections of title 
     37, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 
     31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 302c-1(f), relating to accession and retention 
     bonuses for psychologists.
       (2) Section 302d(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
     registered nurses.
       (3) Section 302e(a)(1), relating to incentive special pay 
     for nurse anesthetists.
       (4) Section 302g(e), relating to special pay for Selected 
     Reserve health professionals in critically short wartime 
     specialties.
       (5) Section 302h(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
     dental officers.
       (6) Section 302j(a), relating to accession bonus for 
     pharmacy officers.
       (7) Section 302k(f), relating to accession bonus for 
     medical officers in critically short wartime specialties.
       (8) Section 302l(g), relating to accession bonus for dental 
     specialist officers in critically short wartime specialties.

     SEC. 613. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF SPECIAL PAY AND BONUS 
                   AUTHORITIES FOR NUCLEAR OFFICERS.

       The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 312(f), relating to special pay for nuclear-
     qualified officers extending period of active service.
       (2) Section 312b(c), relating to nuclear career accession 
     bonus.
       (3) Section 312c(d), relating to nuclear career annual 
     incentive bonus.

     SEC. 614. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO TITLE 
                   37 CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL PAY, INCENTIVE PAY, AND 
                   BONUS AUTHORITIES.

       The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
     enlisted members.

[[Page H8743]]

       (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
     officers.
       (3) Section 333(i), relating to special bonus and incentive 
     pay authorities for nuclear officers.
       (4) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive 
     pay and bonus authorities for officers.
       (5) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive 
     pay authorities for officers in health professions.
       (6) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for 
     cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve 
     Officers' Training Corps.
       (7) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
       (8) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special 
     duty pay.
       (9) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
     proficiency bonus.
       (10) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
     members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to 
     high priority units.

     SEC. 615. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO 
                   PAYMENT OF OTHER TITLE 37 BONUSES AND SPECIAL 
                   PAYS.

       The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 301b(a), relating to aviation officer retention 
     bonus.
       (2) Section 307a(g), relating to assignment incentive pay.
       (3) Section 308(g), relating to reenlistment bonus for 
     active members.
       (4) Section 309(e), relating to enlistment bonus.
       (5) Section 316a(g), relating to incentive pay for members 
     of precommissioning programs pursuing foreign language 
     proficiency.
       (6) Section 324(g), relating to accession bonus for new 
     officers in critical skills.
       (7) Section 326(g), relating to incentive bonus for 
     conversion to military occupational specialty to ease 
     personnel shortage.
       (8) Section 327(h), relating to incentive bonus for 
     transfer between Armed Forces.
       (9) Section 330(f), relating to accession bonus for officer 
     candidates.

     SEC. 616. REPORT REGARDING THE NATIONAL PILOT SHORTAGE.

       (a) In General.--Not later than April 30, 2018, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate a report regarding the extent of the national 
     pilot shortage and the impact that such shortage has on the 
     ability of the Department of Defense to retain pilots.
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include assessments of the following:
       (1) The severity of the national pilot shortage, including 
     which of the following are most acutely affected by such 
     shortage--
       (A) geographic areas of the United States; and
       (B) sectors of the commercial aviation industry;
       (2) Compensation practices within the commercial aviation 
     industry, including whether and how such practices affect the 
     ability of the Department of Defense to retain pilots.
       (3) The annual business case of the Secretary of the Air 
     Force for aviation bonus payments under section 334(c)(2) of 
     title 37, United States Code, specifically--
       (A) whether the business case meets the requirements under 
     such section of title 37;
       (B) whether the business case justifies the bonus amount 
     for each aircraft type category; and
       (C) whether projections indicate that the business case 
     will reduce the pilot shortage, and, if so, how quickly for 
     each aircraft type category.
       (4) Non-monetary incentives the Secretary of the Air Force 
     has used to retain pilots.
       (5) Other incentives available under current law and 
     policies of the Department of Defense to increase retention 
     of pilots.
       (6) Such other matters as the Comptroller General considers 
     appropriate.

     SEC. 617. SPECIAL AVIATION INCENTIVE PAY AND BONUS 
                   AUTHORITIES FOR ENLISTED MEMBERS WHO OPERATE 
                   REMOTELY PILOTED AIRCRAFT.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after section 334 the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 334a. Special aviation incentive pay and bonus 
       authorities: enlisted members who operate remotely piloted 
       aircraft

       ``(a) Aviation Incentive Pay.--
       ``(1) Incentive pay authorized.--The Secretary concerned 
     may pay aviation incentive pay under this section to an 
     enlisted member in a regular or reserve component of a 
     uniformed service who--
       ``(A) is entitled to basic pay under section 204 of this 
     title or compensation under 206 of this title;
       ``(B) is designated as a remotely piloted aircraft pilot, 
     or is in training leading to such a designation;
       ``(C) engages in, or is in training leading to, frequent 
     and regular performance of operational flying duty or 
     proficiency flying duty;
       ``(D) engages in or remains in aviation service for a 
     specified period; and
       ``(E) meets such other criteria as the Secretary concerned 
     determines appropriate.
       ``(2) Enlisted members not currently engaged in flying 
     duty.--The Secretary concerned may pay aviation incentive pay 
     under this section to an enlisted member who is otherwise 
     qualified for such pay but who is not currently engaged in 
     the performance of operational flying duty or proficiency 
     flying duty if the Secretary determines, under regulations 
     prescribed under section 374 of this title, that payment of 
     aviation pay to that enlisted member is in the best interests 
     of the service.
       ``(b) Aviation Bonus.--The Secretary concerned may pay an 
     aviation bonus under this section to an enlisted member in a 
     regular or reserve component of a uniformed service who--
       ``(1) is entitled to aviation incentive pay under 
     subsection (a);
       ``(2) is within one year of completing the enlistment of 
     the member;
       ``(3) reenlists or voluntarily extends the enlistment of 
     the member--
       ``(A) for a period of at least one year; or
       ``(B) in the case of an enlisted member serving pursuant to 
     an indefinite reenlistment, executes a written agreement--
       ``(i) to remain on active duty for a period of at least one 
     year; or
       ``(ii) to remain in an active status in a reserve component 
     for a period of at least one year; and
       ``(4) meets such other criteria as the Secretary concerned 
     determines appropriate.
       ``(c) Maximum Amount and Method of Payment.--
       ``(1) Maximum amount.--The Secretary concerned shall 
     determine the amount of a bonus or incentive pay to be paid 
     under this section, except that--
       ``(A) aviation incentive pay under subsection (a) shall be 
     paid at a monthly rate not to exceed $1,000 per month; and
       ``(B) an aviation bonus under subsection (b) may not exceed 
     $35,000 for each 12-month period of obligated service agreed 
     to under subsection (d).
       ``(2) Lump sum or installments.--A bonus under this section 
     may be paid in a lump sum or in periodic installments, as 
     determined by the Secretary concerned.
       ``(3) Fixing bonus amount.--Upon acceptance by the 
     Secretary concerned of the written agreement required by 
     subsection (d), the total amount of the bonus to be paid 
     under the agreement shall be fixed.
       ``(d) Written Agreement for Bonus.--To receive an aviation 
     bonus under this section, an enlisted member determined to be 
     eligible for the bonus shall enter into a written agreement 
     with the Secretary concerned that specifies--
       ``(1) the amount of the bonus;
       ``(2) the method of payment of the bonus under subsection 
     (c)(2);
       ``(3) the period of obligated service; and
       ``(4) the type or conditions of the service.
       ``(e) Reserve Component Enlisted Members Performing 
     Inactive Duty Training.--An enlisted member of reserve 
     component who is entitled to compensation under section 206 
     of this title and who is authorized aviation incentive pay 
     under this section may be paid an amount of incentive pay 
     that is proportionate to the compensation received under 
     section 206 of this title for inactive-duty training.
       ``(f) Relationship to Other Pay and Allowances.--
       ``(1) Aviation incentive pay.--Aviation incentive pay paid 
     to an enlisted member under subsection (a) shall be in 
     addition to any other pay and allowance to which the enlisted 
     member is entitled, except that an enlisted member may not 
     receive a payment under such subsection and section 351(a)(2) 
     or 353(a) of this title for the same skill and period of 
     service.
       ``(2) Aviation bonus.--An aviation bonus paid to an 
     enlisted member under subsection (b) shall be in addition to 
     any other pay and allowance to which the enlisted member is 
     entitled, except that an enlisted member may not receive a 
     bonus payment under such subsection and section 331 or 353(b) 
     of this title for the same skill and period of service.
       ``(g) Repayment.--An enlisted member who receives aviation 
     incentive pay or an aviation bonus under this section and who 
     fails to fulfill the eligibility requirements for the receipt 
     of the incentive pay or bonus or complete the period of 
     service for which the incentive pay or bonus is paid, as 
     specified in the written agreement under subsection (d) in 
     the case of a bonus, shall be subject to the repayment 
     provisions of section 373 of this title.
       ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Aviation service.--The term `aviation service' means 
     participation in aerial flight performed, under regulations 
     prescribed by the Secretary concerned, by an eligible 
     enlisted member who is a remotely piloted aircraft pilot.
       ``(2) Operational flying duty.--The term `operational 
     flying duty' means flying performed under competent orders by 
     enlisted members of the regular or reserve components while 
     serving in assignments in which basic flying skills are 
     normally maintained in the performance of assigned duties as 
     determined by the Secretary concerned, and flying duty 
     performed by members in training that leads to designation as 
     a remotely piloted aircraft pilot by the Secretary concerned.
       ``(3) Proficiency flying duty.--The term `proficiency 
     flying duty' means flying performed under competent orders by 
     enlisted members of the regular or reserve components while 
     serving in assignments in which such skills would normally 
     not be maintained in the performance of assigned duties.
       ``(i) Termination of Authority.--No agreement may be 
     entered into under this section after December 31, 2018.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 5 of such title is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 334 the following new 
     item:

``334a. Special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities: enlisted 
              members who operate remotely piloted aircraft.''.

     SEC. 618. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO 
                   2008 CONSOLIDATION OF SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITIES.

       (a) Repayment Provisions.--
       (1) Title 10.--The following provisions of title 10, United 
     States Code, are each amended by inserting ``or 373'' before 
     ``of title 37'':
       (A) Section 510(i).

[[Page H8744]]

       (B) Subsections (a)(3) and (c) of section 2005.
       (C) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2007(e).
       (D) Section 2105.
       (E) Section 2123(e)(1)(C).
       (F) Section 2128(c).
       (G) Section 2130a(d).
       (H) Section 2171(g).
       (I) Section 2173(g)(2).
       (J) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2200a(e).
       (K) Section 4348(f).
       (L) Section 6959(f).
       (M) Section 9348(f).
       (N) Subsections (a)(2) and (b) of section 16135.
       (O) Section 16203(a)(1)(B).
       (P) Section 16301(h).
       (Q) Section 16303(d).
       (R) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 16401(f).
       (2) Title 14.--Section 182(g) of title 14, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting ``or 373'' before ``of title 
     37''.
       (b) Officers Appointed Pursuant to an Agreement Under 
     Section 329 of Title 37.--Section 641 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (6).
       (c) Reenlistment Leave.--The matter preceding paragraph (1) 
     of section 703(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by inserting ``or paragraph (1) or (3) of section 351(a)'' 
     after ``section 310(a)(2)''.
       (d) Rest and Recuperation Absence for Qualified Members 
     Extending Duty at Designated Location Overseas.--The matter 
     following paragraph (4) of section 705(a) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 314''.
       (e) Rest and Recuperation Absence for Certain Members 
     Undergoing Extended Deployment to Combat Zone.--Section 
     705a(b)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     inserting ``or 352(a)'' after ``section 305''.
       (f) Additional Incentives for Health Professionals of the 
     Indian Health Service.--Section 116(a) of the Indian Health 
     Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1616i(a)) is amended by 
     inserting ``or 335(b)'' after ``section 302(b)''.
       (g) Military Pay and Allowances Continuance While in a 
     Missing Status.--Section 552(a)(2) of title 37, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting ``or section 351(a)(2)'' after 
     ``section 301''.
       (h) Military Pay and Allowances.--Section 907(d) of title 
     37, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or 351'' after 
     ``section 301'';
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 301c'';
       (C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``or 353(a)'' after 
     ``section 304'';
       (D) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 305'';
       (E) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 305a'';
       (F) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 305b'';
       (G) in subparagraph (G), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 307a'';
       (H) in subparagraph (I), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 314'';
       (I) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``316'' and inserting 
     ``353(b)''; and
       (J) in subparagraph (K), by striking ``323'' and inserting 
     ``section 355''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 307'';
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``308'' and inserting 
     ``331'';
       (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``309'' and inserting 
     ``331''; and
       (D) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``or 353'' after 
     ``section 320''.
       (i) Pay and Allowances of Officers of the Public Health 
     Service.--Section 208(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 210(a)(2)) is amended by inserting ``or 373'' 
     after ``303a(b)''.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

     SEC. 621. PERMANENT EXTENSION AND COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENTS 
                   OF SPECIAL SURVIVOR INDEMNITY ALLOWANCES UNDER 
                   THE SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN.

       Section 1450(m) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``and'' at the end; 
     and
       (B) by striking subparagraph (I) and inserting the 
     following new subparagraphs:
       ``(I) for months from October 2016 through December 2018, 
     $310; and
       ``(J) for months during any calendar year after 2018, the 
     amount determined in accordance with paragraph (6).''; and
       (2) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following 
     new paragraph (6):
       ``(6) Cost-of-living adjustments after 2018.--
       ``(A) In general.--The amount of the allowance payable 
     under paragraph (1) for months during any calendar year 
     beginning after 2018 shall be--
       ``(i) the amount payable pursuant to paragraph (2) for 
     months during the preceding calendar year, plus
       ``(ii) an amount equal to the percentage of the amount 
     determined pursuant to clause (i) which percentage is equal 
     to the percentage increase in retired pay of members and 
     former members of the armed forces for such calendar year 
     under section 1401a of this title.
       ``(B) Public notice on amount of allowance payable.--The 
     Secretary of Defense shall publish in the Federal Register 
     each year the amount of the allowance payable under paragraph 
     (1) for months in such year by reason of the operation of 
     this paragraph.''.

     SEC. 622. ADJUSTMENTS TO SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN FOR MEMBERS 
                   ELECTING LUMP SUM PAYMENTS OF RETIRED PAY UNDER 
                   THE MODERNIZED RETIREMENT SYSTEM FOR MEMBERS OF 
                   THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.

       (a) Definition of Base Amount.--Section 1447(6)(A) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding 
     clause (i) by inserting ``or 1415(b)(1)(B)'' after ``section 
     1409(b)(2)''.
       (b) Coordination With Reductions in Retired Pay.--Section 
     1452 of such title is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``, other than 
     retired pay received as a lump sum under section 
     1415(b)(1)(A) of this title,'' in the matter preceding 
     subparagraph (A) after ``, the retired pay'';
       (2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``, other than 
     retired pay received as a lump sum under section 
     1415(b)(1)(A) of this title,'' after ``The retired pay''; and
       (3) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, other than retired 
     pay received as a lump sum under section 1415(b)(1)(A) of 
     this title,'' after ``The retired pay''; and
       (B) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or 1415(b)(1)(B)'' 
     after ``section 1409(b)(2)''.

     SEC. 623. TECHNICAL CORRECTION REGARDING ELECTION TO 
                   PARTICIPATE IN MODERNIZED RETIREMENT SYSTEM FOR 
                   RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS EXPERIENCING A BREAK 
                   IN SERVICE.

       (a) Persons Experiencing a Break in Service.--Section 
     12739(f)(2)(B)(iii) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``on the date of the reentry'' and 
     inserting ``within 30 days after the date of the reentry''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on January 1, 2018, immediately after the 
     coming into effect of the amendment made by section 631(b) of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 843), to which the amendment 
     made by subsection (a) relates.

     SEC. 624. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO USE OF MEMBER'S CURRENT 
                   PAY GRADE AND YEARS OF SERVICE IN A DIVISION OF 
                   PROPERTY INVOLVING DISPOSABLE RETIRED PAY.

       (a) In General.--Section 1408 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(4)--
       (A) in the matter preceding clause (i) of subparagraph (A), 
     by striking ``(as determined pursuant to subparagraph (B)''; 
     and
       (B) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
     following new subparagraph (B):
       ``(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), in the case of a 
     division of property as part of a final decree of divorce, 
     dissolution, annulment, or legal separation that becomes 
     final prior to the date of a member's retirement, the total 
     monthly retired pay to which the member is entitled shall 
     be--
       ``(i) in the case of a member not described in clause (ii), 
     the amount of retired pay to which the member would have been 
     entitled using the member's retired pay base and years of 
     service on the date of the decree of divorce, dissolution, 
     annulment, or legal separation, as computed under section 
     1406 or 1407 of this title, whichever is applicable, 
     increased by the sum of the cost-of-living adjustments that--
       ``(I) would have occurred under section 1401a(b) of this 
     title between the date of the decree of divorce, dissolution, 
     annulment, or legal separation and the time of the member's 
     retirement using the adjustment provisions under section 
     1401a of this title applicable to the member upon retirement; 
     and
       ``(II) occur under 1401a of this title after the member's 
     retirement; or
       ``(ii) in the case of a member who becomes entitled to 
     retired pay pursuant to chapter 1223 of this title, the 
     amount of retired pay to which the member would have been 
     entitled using the member's retired pay base and creditable 
     service points on the date of the decree of divorce, 
     dissolution, annulment, or legal separation, as computer 
     under chapter 1223 of this title, increased by the sum of the 
     cost-of-living adjustments as described in clause (i) that 
     apply with respect to the member.''; and
       (2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(8) A division of property award computed as a percentage 
     of a member's disposable retired pay shall be increased by 
     the same percentage as any cost-of-living adjustment made 
     under section 1401a after the member's retirement.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on December 23, 2016, as if enacted 
     immediately following the enactment of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     to which such amendments relate.
       (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply with respect to any division of property as part 
     of a final decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or 
     legal separation involving a member of the Armed Forces to 
     which section 1408 of title 10, United States Code, applies 
     that becomes final after December 23, 2016.

     SEC. 625. CONTINUATION PAY FOR THE COAST GUARD.

       For providing continuation pay for the United States Coast 
     Guard under section 356 of title 37, United States Code, 
     funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 in the amount of $3,286,277.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

     SEC. 631. LAND CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY, ARMY AND AIR FORCE 
                   EXCHANGE SERVICE PROPERTY, DALLAS, TEXAS.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Army and Air Force Exchange 
     Service may convey, by sale, exchange, or a combination 
     thereof, all right, title, and interest of the United States 
     in

[[Page H8745]]

     and to a parcel of real property, including improvements 
     thereon, that--
       (1) is located at 8901 Autobahn Drive in Dallas, Texas; and
       (2) was purchased using nonappropriated funds of the Army 
     and Air Force Exchange Service.
       (b) Consideration.--
       (1) In general.--Consideration for the real property 
     conveyed under subsection (a) shall be at least equal to the 
     fair market value of the property, as determined by the Army 
     and Air Force Exchange Service.
       (2) Treatment of cash consideration.--Notwithstanding 
     section 574 of title 40, United States Code, any cash 
     consideration received from the conveyance of the property 
     under subsection (a) may be retained by the Army and Air 
     Force Exchange Service because the property was acquired 
     using nonappropriated funds.
       (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Army and Air Force Exchange Service. The recipient of 
     the property shall be required to cover the cost of the 
     survey.
       (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Army and Air 
     Force Exchange Service may require such additional terms and 
     conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection 
     (a) as the Army and Air Force Exchange Service considers 
     appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
       (e) Inapplicability of Certain Provisions of Law.--Section 
     2696 of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply to a 
     conveyance of property under this section.

     SEC. 632. AUTHORITY FOR THE SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY 
                   DEPARTMENTS TO PROVIDE FOR CARE OF REMAINS OF 
                   THOSE WHO DIE ON ACTIVE DUTY AND ARE INTERRED 
                   IN A FOREIGN CEMETERY.

       Section 1482(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(10) In the case of a decedent under the jurisdiction of 
     a Secretary of a military department at the time of death, 
     enduring care of remains interred in a foreign cemetery if 
     the burial location was designated by such Secretary.''.

     SEC. 633. CONSTRUCTION OF DOMESTIC SOURCE REQUIREMENT FOR 
                   FOOTWEAR FURNISHED TO ENLISTED MEMBERS OF THE 
                   ARMED FORCES ON INITIAL ENTRY INTO THE ARMED 
                   FORCES.

       Section 418(d) of title 37, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(4) This subsection does not apply to the furnishing of 
     athletic footwear to members of the Army, the Navy, the Air 
     Force, or the Marine Corps upon their initial entry into the 
     armed forces, or prohibit the provision of a cash allowance 
     to such members for such purpose, if the Secretary of Defense 
     determines that compliance with paragraph (2) would result in 
     a sole source contract for procurement of athletic footwear 
     for the purpose stated in paragraph (1) because there would 
     be only a sole certified source of supply for such footwear.
       ``(5) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all 
     procurements of athletic footwear to which this subsection 
     applies are made using firm fixed price contracts.''.

     SEC. 634. REVIEW AND UPDATE OF REGULATIONS GOVERNING DEBT 
                   COLLECTORS INTERACTIONS WITH UNIT COMMANDERS OF 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall review and update 
     Department of Defense Directive 1344.09 and any associated 
     regulations to ensure that such regulations comply with 
     Federal consumer protection laws with respect to the 
     collection of debt.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Continued access to medical care at facilities of the 
              uniformed services for certain members of the reserve 
              components.
Sec. 702. Modifications of cost-sharing requirements for the TRICARE 
              Pharmacy Benefits Program and treatment of certain 
              pharmaceutical agents.
Sec. 703. Provision of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for certain members of 
              the Armed Forces.
Sec. 704. Specification that individuals under the age of 21 are 
              eligible for hospice care services under the TRICARE 
              program.
Sec. 705. Physical examinations for members of a reserve component who 
              are separating from the Armed Forces.
Sec. 706. Mental health assessments before members separate from the 
              Armed Forces.
Sec. 707. Expansion of sexual trauma counseling and treatment for 
              members of the reserve components.
Sec. 708. Expedited evaluation and treatment for prenatal surgery under 
              the TRICARE program.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Maintenance of inpatient capabilities of military medical 
              treatment facilities located outside the United States.
Sec. 712. Modification of priority for evaluation and treatment of 
              individuals at military treatment facilities.
Sec. 713. Clarification of administration of military medical treatment 
              facilities.
Sec. 714. Regular update of prescription drug pricing standard under 
              TRICARE retail pharmacy program.
Sec. 715. Modification of execution of TRICARE contracting 
              responsibilities.
Sec. 716. Additional emergency uses for medical products to reduce 
              deaths and severity of injuries caused by agents of war.
Sec. 717. Modification of determination of average wait times at urgent 
              care clinics and pharmacies at military medical treatment 
              facilities under pilot program.
Sec. 718. Requirement for reimbursement by Department of Defense to 
              entities carrying out State vaccination programs for 
              costs of vaccines provided to covered beneficiaries.
Sec. 719. Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-
              Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
              Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 720. Residency requirements for podiatrists.
Sec. 721. Authorization of physical therapist assistants and 
              occupational therapy assistants to provide services under 
              the TRICARE program.
Sec. 722. Selection of military commanders and directors of military 
              medical treatment facilities.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 731. Pilot program on health care assistance system.
Sec. 732. Feasibility study on conduct of pilot program on mental 
              health readiness of part-time members of the reserve 
              components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 733. Report on plan to improve pediatric care and related services 
              for children of members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 734. Longitudinal medical study on blast pressure exposure of 
              members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 735. Study on safe opioid prescribing practices.
Sec. 736. Report on implementation of GAO recommendations.
Sec. 737. Declassification by Department of Defense of certain 
              incidents of exposure of members of the Armed Forces to 
              toxic substances.
Sec. 738. Coordination by Veterans Health Administration of efforts to 
              understand effects of burn pits.
Sec. 739. TRICARE technical amendments.

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

     SEC. 701. CONTINUED ACCESS TO MEDICAL CARE AT FACILITIES OF 
                   THE UNIFORMED SERVICES FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF 
                   THE RESERVE COMPONENTS.

       (a) TRICARE Reserve Select.--Paragraph (2) of section 
     1076d(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read 
     as follows:
       ``(2) The term `TRICARE Reserve Select' means--
       ``(A) medical care at facilities of the uniformed services 
     to which a dependent described in section 1076(a)(2) of this 
     title is entitled; and
       ``(B) health benefits under the TRICARE Select self-
     managed, preferred provider network option under section 1075 
     of this title made available to beneficiaries by reason of 
     this section and subject to the cost-sharing requirements set 
     forth in such section 1075.''.
       (b) TRICARE Retired Reserve.--Section 1076e is amended--
       (1) In subsection (b), in the subsection heading, by 
     striking ``Retired Reserve'';
       (2) In subsection (c), by striking ``Retired Reserve'' the 
     last place it appears; and
       (3) in subsection (f), by striking paragraph (2) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(2) The term `TRICARE Retired Reserve' means--
       ``(A) medical care at facilities of the uniformed services 
     to which a dependent described in section 1076(a)(2) of this 
     title is entitled; and
       ``(B) health benefits under the TRICARE Select self-
     managed, preferred provider network option under section 1075 
     of this title made available to beneficiaries by reason of 
     this section and subject to the cost-sharing requirements set 
     forth in such section 1075.''.

     SEC. 702. MODIFICATIONS OF COST-SHARING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE 
                   TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS PROGRAM AND TREATMENT 
                   OF CERTAIN PHARMACEUTICAL AGENTS.

       (a) In General.--Paragraph (6) of section 1074g(a) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(6)(A) In the case of any of the years 2018 through 2027, 
     the cost-sharing amounts under this subsection for eligible 
     covered beneficiaries shall be determined in accordance with 
     the following table:


[[Page H8746]]



------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     The cost-
             The cost-                sharing                 The cost-
              sharing    The cost-     amount    The cost-     sharing
               amount     sharing    for a 90-    sharing     amount for
             for a 30-   amount for     day      amount for    a 90-day
   ``For:       day       a 30-day   supply of    a 90-day   supply of a
             supply of  supply of a    a mail   supply of a   mail order
              a retail     retail      order     mail order      non-
              generic    formulary    generic    formulary    formulary
                is:         is:         is:         is:          is:
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2018          $11         $28          $7         $24          $53
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2019          $11         $28          $7         $24          $53
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2020          $13         $33         $10         $29          $60
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2021          $13         $33         $10         $29          $60
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2022          $14         $38         $12         $34          $68
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2023          $14         $38         $12         $34          $68
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2024          $16         $43         $13         $38          $76
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2025          $16         $43         $13         $38          $76
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2026          $16         $48         $14         $44          $85
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2027          $16         $48         $14         $44          $85
------------------------------------------------------------------------

     -  ``(B) For any year after 2027, the cost-sharing amounts 
     under this subsection for eligible covered beneficiaries 
     shall be equal to the cost-sharing amounts for the previous 
     year adjusted by an amount, if any, determined by the 
     Secretary to reflect changes in the costs of pharmaceutical 
     agents and prescription dispensing, rounded to the nearest 
     dollar.
       ``(C) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the cost-
     sharing amounts under this subsection for a dependent of a 
     member of the uniformed services who dies while on active 
     duty, a member retired under chapter 61 of this title, or a 
     dependent of a member retired under such chapter shall be 
     equal to the cost-sharing amounts, if any, for 2017.''.
       (b) Treatment of Certain Pharmaceutical Agents.--
       (1) Pharmacy benefits program.--Such section is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(10) Notwithstanding paragraphs (2), (5), and (6), in 
     order to encourage the use by covered beneficiaries of 
     pharmaceutical agents that provide the best clinical 
     effectiveness to covered beneficiaries and the Department of 
     Defense (as determined by the Secretary, including 
     considerations of better care, healthier people, and smarter 
     spending), the Secretary may, upon the recommendation of the 
     Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee established under 
     subsection (b) and review by the Uniform Formulary 
     Beneficiary Advisory Panel established under subsection (c)--
       ``(A) exclude from the pharmacy benefits program any 
     pharmaceutical agent that the Secretary determines provides 
     very little or no clinical effectiveness to covered 
     beneficiaries and the Department under the program; and
       ``(B) give preferential status to any non-generic 
     pharmaceutical agent on the uniform formulary by treating it, 
     for purposes of cost-sharing under paragraph (6), as a 
     generic product under the TRICARE retail pharmacy program and 
     mail order pharmacy program.''.
       (2) Medical contracts.--Section 1079 of such title is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(q) In the case of any pharmaceutical agent (as defined 
     in section 1074g(g) of this title) provided under a contract 
     entered into under this section by a physician, in an 
     outpatient department of a hospital, or otherwise as part of 
     any medical services provided under such a contract, the 
     Secretary of Defense may, under regulations prescribed by the 
     Secretary, adopt special reimbursement methods, amounts, and 
     procedures to encourage the use of high-value products and 
     discourage the use of low-value products, as determined by 
     the Secretary.''.
       (3) Regulations.--In order to implement expeditiously the 
     reforms authorized by the amendments made by paragraphs (1) 
     and (2), the Secretary of Defense may prescribe such changes 
     to the regulations implementing the TRICARE program (as 
     defined in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code) as 
     the Secretary considers appropriate--
       (A) by prescribing an interim final rule; and
       (B) not later than one year after prescribing such interim 
     final rule and considering public comments with respect to 
     such interim final rule, by prescribing a final rule.

     SEC. 703. PROVISION OF HYPERBARIC OXYGEN THERAPY FOR CERTAIN 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) HBOT Treatment.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 1074n the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 1074o. Provision of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for 
       certain members

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may furnish hyperbaric 
     oxygen therapy available at a military medical treatment 
     facility to a covered member if such therapy is prescribed by 
     a physician to treat post-traumatic stress disorder or 
     traumatic brain injury.
       ``(b) Covered Member Defined.--In this section, the term 
     `covered member' means a member of the armed forces who is--
       ``(1) serving on active duty; and
       ``(2) diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder or 
     traumatic brain injury.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 1074n the following new item:

``1074o. Provision of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for certain members.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act.

     SEC. 704. SPECIFICATION THAT INDIVIDUALS UNDER THE AGE OF 21 
                   ARE ELIGIBLE FOR HOSPICE CARE SERVICES UNDER 
                   THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

       Section 1079(a)(15) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``, except that hospice care may be provided to an 
     individual under the age of 21 concurrently with health care 
     services or hospitalization for the same condition''.

     SEC. 705. PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS FOR MEMBERS OF A RESERVE 
                   COMPONENT WHO ARE SEPARATING FROM THE ARMED 
                   FORCES.

       Section 1145 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
     subsection (d):
       ``(d) Physical Examinations for Certain Members of a 
     Reserve Component.--(1) The Secretary concerned shall provide 
     a physical examination pursuant to subsection (a)(5) to each 
     member of a reserve component who--
       ``(A) during the two-year period before the date on which 
     the member is scheduled to be separated from the armed forces 
     served on active duty in support of a contingency operation 
     for a period of more than 30 days;
       ``(B) will not otherwise receive such an examination under 
     such subsection; and
       ``(C) elects to receive such a physical examination.
       ``(2) The Secretary concerned shall--
       ``(A) provide the physical examination under paragraph (1) 
     to a member during the 90-day period before the date on which 
     the member is scheduled to be separated from the armed 
     forces; and
       ``(B) issue orders to such a member to receive such 
     physical examination.
       ``(3) A member may not be entitled to health care benefits 
     pursuant to subsection (a), (b), or (c) solely by reason of 
     being provided a physical examination under paragraph (1).
       ``(4) In providing to a member a physical examination under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall provide to the 
     member a record of the physical examination.''.

     SEC. 706. MENTAL HEALTH ASSESSMENTS BEFORE MEMBERS SEPARATE 
                   FROM THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--Section 1145(a)(5)(A) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting ``and a mental health 
     assessment conducted pursuant to section 1074n of this 
     title'' after ``a physical examination''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1074n(a) of such title 
     is amended by inserting ``(and before separation from active 
     duty pursuant to section 1145(a)(5)(A) of this title)'' after 
     ``each calendar year''.

[[Page H8747]]

  


     SEC. 707. EXPANSION OF SEXUAL TRAUMA COUNSELING AND TREATMENT 
                   FOR MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS.

       Section 1720D(a)(2)(A) of title 38, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``on active duty''; and
       (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``that was suffered by the member while serving on 
     active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty 
     training''.

     SEC. 708. EXPEDITED EVALUATION AND TREATMENT FOR PRENATAL 
                   SURGERY UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement 
     processes and procedures to ensure that a covered beneficiary 
     under the TRICARE program whose pregnancy is complicated with 
     (or suspected of complication with) a fetal condition may 
     elect to receive expedited evaluation, nondirective 
     counseling, and medical treatment from a perinatal or 
     pediatric specialist capable of providing surgical management 
     and intervention in utero.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
     beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meanings given 
     those terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

     SEC. 711. MAINTENANCE OF INPATIENT CAPABILITIES OF MILITARY 
                   MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES LOCATED OUTSIDE 
                   THE UNITED STATES.

       Section 1073d of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Maintenance of Inpatient Capabilities at Military 
     Medical Treatment Facilities Located Outside the United 
     States.--(1) In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary of 
     Defense shall ensure that each covered facility maintains, at 
     a minimum, inpatient capabilities that the Secretary 
     determines are similar to the inpatient capabilities of such 
     facility on September 30, 2016.
       ``(2) The Secretary may not eliminate the inpatient 
     capabilities of a covered facility until the day that is 180 
     days after the Secretary provides a briefing to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives regarding the proposed elimination. During 
     any such briefing, the Secretary shall certify the following:
       ``(A) The Secretary has entered into agreements with 
     hospitals or medical centers in the host nation of such 
     covered facility that--
       ``(i) replace the inpatient capabilities the Secretary 
     proposes to eliminate; and
       ``(ii) ensure members of the armed forces and covered 
     beneficiaries who receive health care from such covered 
     facility, have, within a distance the Secretary determines is 
     reasonable, access to quality health care, including case 
     management and translation services.
       ``(B) The Secretary has consulted with the commander of the 
     geographic combatant command in which such covered facility 
     is located to ensure that the proposed elimination would have 
     no impact on the operational plan for such geographic 
     combatant command.
       ``(C) Before the Secretary eliminates the inpatient 
     capabilities of such covered facility, the Secretary shall 
     provide each member of the armed forces or covered 
     beneficiary who receives health care from the covered 
     facility with--
       ``(i) a transition plan for continuity of health care for 
     such member or covered beneficiary; and
       ``(ii) a public forum to discuss the concerns of the member 
     or covered beneficiary regarding the proposed reduction.
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `covered facility' means 
     a military medical treatment facility located outside the 
     United States.''.

     SEC. 712. MODIFICATION OF PRIORITY FOR EVALUATION AND 
                   TREATMENT OF INDIVIDUALS AT MILITARY TREATMENT 
                   FACILITIES.

       Subsection (b) of section 717 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Priority of Covered Beneficiaries.--
       ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
     evaluation and treatment of covered beneficiaries at military 
     treatment facilities shall be prioritized ahead of the 
     evaluation and treatment of veterans and civilians at such 
     facilities under subsection (a).
       ``(2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the requirement 
     under paragraph (1) in order to provide timely evaluation and 
     treatment for individuals who are--
       ``(A) severely wounded or injured by acts of terror that 
     occur in the United States; or
       ``(B) residents of the United States who are severely 
     wounded or injured by acts of terror outside the United 
     States.''.

     SEC. 713. CLARIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATION OF MILITARY MEDICAL 
                   TREATMENT FACILITIES.

       Section 1073c(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(E), by striking ``miliary'' and 
     inserting ``military'';
       (2) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
     (A), by striking ``commander'' and inserting ``military 
     commander or director''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) If the Secretary of Defense determines it 
     appropriate, a military director (or any other senior 
     military officer or officers) of a military medical treatment 
     facility may be a commanding officer for purposes of chapter 
     47 of this title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) with 
     respect to military personnel assigned to the military 
     medical treatment facility.''.

     SEC. 714. REGULAR UPDATE OF PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICING 
                   STANDARD UNDER TRICARE RETAIL PHARMACY PROGRAM.

       Section 1074g(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) With respect to the TRICARE retail pharmacy program 
     described in subsection (a)(2)(E)(ii), the Secretary shall 
     ensure that a contract entered into with a TRICARE pharmacy 
     program contractor includes requirements described in section 
     1860D-12(b)(6) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
     112(b)(6)) to ensure the provision of information regarding 
     the pricing standard for prescription drugs.''.

     SEC. 715. MODIFICATION OF EXECUTION OF TRICARE CONTRACTING 
                   RESPONSIBILITIES.

       Subsection (b) of section 705 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Execution of Contracting Responsibility.--With 
     respect to any acquisition of managed care support services 
     under the TRICARE program initiated after the date of the 
     enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2018, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment shall be responsible for--
       ``(1) decisions relating to such acquisition;
       ``(2) approving the acquisition strategy; and
       ``(3) conducting pre-solicitation, pre-award, and post-
     award acquisition reviews.''.

     SEC. 716. ADDITIONAL EMERGENCY USES FOR MEDICAL PRODUCTS TO 
                   REDUCE DEATHS AND SEVERITY OF INJURIES CAUSED 
                   BY AGENTS OF WAR.

       Section 1107a of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) Additional Authority to Reduce Deaths and Severity of 
     Injuries Caused by Agents of War.--(1) In a case in which an 
     emergency use of an unapproved product or an emergency 
     unapproved use of an approved product cannot be authorized 
     under section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
     (21 U.S.C. 360bbb-3) because the emergency does not involve 
     an actual or threatened attack with a biological, chemical, 
     radiological, or nuclear agent or agents, the Secretary of 
     Defense may authorize an emergency use outside the United 
     States of the product to reduce the number of deaths or the 
     severity of harm to members of the armed forces (or 
     individuals associated with deployed members of the armed 
     forces) caused by a risk or agent of war.
       ``(2) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, an 
     authorization by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall have 
     the same effect with respect to the armed forces as an 
     emergency use authorization under section 564 of the Federal 
     Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb-3).
       ``(3) The Secretary may issue an authorization under 
     paragraph (1) with respect to the emergency use of an 
     unapproved product or the emergency unapproved use of an 
     approved product only if--
       ``(A) the committee established under paragraph (5) has 
     recommended that the Secretary issue the authorization; and
       ``(B) the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs 
     makes a written determination, after consultation with the 
     Commissioner of Food and Drugs, that, based on the totality 
     of scientific evidence available to the Assistant Secretary, 
     criteria comparable to those specified in section 564(c) of 
     the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb-
     3(c)) have been met.
       ``(4) With respect to the emergency use of an unapproved 
     product or the emergency unapproved use of an approved 
     product under this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish such scope, conditions, and terms under this 
     subsection as the Secretary considers appropriate, including 
     scope, conditions, and terms comparable to those specified in 
     section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 
     U.S.C. 360bbb-3).
       ``(5)(A) There is established in the Department of Defense 
     a Department of Defense Emergency Use Authorization Committee 
     (in this paragraph referred to as the `Committee') to advise 
     the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on 
     proposed authorizations under this subsection.
       ``(B) Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the 
     Secretary of Defense and shall consist of prominent health 
     care professionals who are not employees of the Department of 
     Defense (other than for purposes of serving as a member of 
     the Committee).
       ``(C) The Committee may be established as a subcommittee of 
     another Federal advisory committee.
       ``(6) In this subsection:
       ``(A) The term `biological product' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 351(i) of the Public Health Service Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 262(i)).
       ``(B) The terms `device' and `drug' have the meanings given 
     those terms in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
       ``(C) The term `product' means a drug, device, or 
     biological product.
       ``(D) The terms `unapproved product' and `unapproved use of 
     an approved product' have the meanings given those terms in 
     section 564(a)(4) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
     (21 U.S.C. 360bbb-3(a)(4)).''.

     SEC. 717. MODIFICATION OF DETERMINATION OF AVERAGE WAIT TIMES 
                   AT URGENT CARE CLINICS AND PHARMACIES AT 
                   MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES UNDER 
                   PILOT PROGRAM.

       (a) Urgent Care Clinics.--Subsection (c)(2) of section 744 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(2) Determination.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary shall determine the average wait time to display 
     under such paragraph by using a formula derived from best 
     practices in the health care industry.''.

[[Page H8748]]

       (b) Pharmacies.--Subsection (d)(2) of such section is 
     amended to read as follows:
       ``(2) Determination.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary shall determine the average wait time to display 
     under such paragraph by using a formula derived from best 
     practices in the health care industry.''.

     SEC. 718. REQUIREMENT FOR REIMBURSEMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE TO ENTITIES CARRYING OUT STATE 
                   VACCINATION PROGRAMS FOR COSTS OF VACCINES 
                   PROVIDED TO COVERED BENEFICIARIES.

       Section 719 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 1074g note) 
     is amended--
       (1) in the section heading, by striking ``authorization of 
     reimbursement'' and
       inserting ``reimbursement''; and
       (2) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``may'' and inserting 
     ``shall''.

     SEC. 719. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL 
                   FACILITY DEMONSTRATION FUND.

       Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2573), as 
     amended by section 722 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
     ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), section 723 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
     114-92), and section 741(a) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), 
     is further amended by striking ``September 30, 2018'' and 
     inserting ``September 30, 2019''.

     SEC. 720. RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS FOR PODIATRISTS.

       (a) Requirement.--In addition to any other qualification 
     required by law or regulation, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     ensure that to serve as a podiatrist in the Armed Forces, an 
     individual must have successfully completed a three-year 
     podiatric medicine and surgical residency.
       (b) Application.--Subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
     to an individual who is commissioned as an officer in the 
     Armed Forces on or after the date that is one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 721. AUTHORIZATION OF PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSISTANTS AND 
                   OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY ASSISTANTS TO PROVIDE 
                   SERVICES UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

       (a) Addition to List of Authorized Professional Providers 
     of Care.--The Secretary of Defense shall revise section 
     199.6(c) of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, as in 
     effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, to add to 
     the list of individual professional providers of care who are 
     authorized to provide services to beneficiaries under the 
     TRICARE program, as defined in section 1072 of title 10, 
     United States Code, the following types of health care 
     practitioners:
       (1) Licensed or certified physical therapist assistants who 
     meet the qualifications for physical therapist assistants 
     specified in section 484.4 of title 42, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, or any successor regulation, to furnish services 
     under the supervision of a physical therapist.
       (2) Licensed or certified occupational therapy assistants 
     who meet the qualifications for occupational therapy 
     assistants specified in such section 484.4, or any successor 
     regulation, to furnish services under the supervision of an 
     occupational therapist.
       (b) Supervision.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
     in regulations requirements for the supervision of physical 
     therapist assistants and occupational therapy assistants, 
     respectively, by physical therapists and occupational 
     therapists, respectively.
       (c) Manuals and Other Guidance.--The Secretary of Defense 
     shall update the CHAMPVA Policy Manual and other relevant 
     manuals and subregulatory guidance of the Department of 
     Defense to carry out the revisions and requirements of this 
     section.

     SEC. 722. SELECTION OF MILITARY COMMANDERS AND DIRECTORS OF 
                   MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than January 1, 2019, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of 
     the military departments, shall establish the common 
     qualifications and core competencies required for an 
     individual to serve as a military commander or director of a 
     military medical treatment facility.
       (b) Objective.--The objective of the Secretary under this 
     section shall be to ensure that each individual selected to 
     serve as a military commander or director of a military 
     medical treatment facility is highly qualified to serve as 
     health system executive.
       (c) Standards.--In establishing common qualifications and 
     core competencies under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
     include standards with respect to the following:
       (1) Professional competence.
       (2) Moral and ethical integrity and character.
       (3) Formal education in health care executive leadership 
     and in health care management.
       (4) Such other matters the Secretary determines to be 
     appropriate.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

     SEC. 731. PILOT PROGRAM ON HEALTH CARE ASSISTANCE SYSTEM.

       (a) Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry 
     out a pilot program to provide a health care assistance 
     service to certain covered beneficiaries enrolled in TRICARE 
     Select using purchased care to improve the health outcomes 
     and patient experience for covered beneficiaries with complex 
     medical conditions.
       (b) Elements.--The pilot program under subsection (a) may 
     include the following elements:
       (1) Assisting beneficiaries with complex medical conditions 
     to understand and use the health benefits under the TRICARE 
     program.
       (2) Supporting such beneficiaries in accessing and 
     navigating the purchased care health care delivery system.
       (3) Providing such beneficiaries with information to allow 
     the beneficiaries to make informed decisions regarding the 
     quality, safety, and cost of available health care services.
       (4) Improving the health outcomes for such beneficiaries.
       (c) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
     program for an amount of time determined appropriate by the 
     Secretary during the five-year period beginning 180 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (d) Report.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate a report containing an 
     evaluation of the success of the pilot program under 
     subsection (a), including--
       (1) an analysis of the implementation of the elements under 
     subsection (b); and
       (2) the feasibility of incorporating such elements into 
     TRICARE support contracts.
       (e) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
     beneficiary'', ``TRICARE program'', and ``TRICARE Select'' 
     have the meaning given those terms in section 1072 of title 
     10, United States Code.

     SEC. 732. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON CONDUCT OF PILOT PROGRAM ON 
                   MENTAL HEALTH READINESS OF PART-TIME MEMBERS OF 
                   THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     conduct a feasibility study and cost estimate for a pilot 
     program that uses predictive analytics and screening to 
     identify mental health risk and provide early, targeted 
     intervention for part-time members of the reserve components 
     of the Armed Forces to improve readiness and mission success.
       (b) Elements.--The feasibility study conducted under 
     subsection (a) shall include elements to assess the following 
     with respect to the pilot program studied under such 
     subsection:
       (1) The anticipated improvement in quality of behavioral 
     health services for part-time members of the reserve 
     components of the Armed Forces and the impact of such 
     improvement in quality of behavioral health services on their 
     families and employers.
       (2) The anticipated impact on the culture surrounding 
     behavioral health treatment and help-seeking behavior.
       (3) The feasibility of embedding mental health 
     professionals with units that--
       (A) perform core mission sets and capabilities; and
       (B) carry out high-risk and high-demand missions.
       (4) The particular preventative mental health needs of 
     units at different states of their operational readiness 
     cycle.
       (5) The need for additional personnel of the Department of 
     Defense to implement the pilot program.
       (6) The cost of implementing the pilot program throughout 
     the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
       (7) The benefits of an integrated operational support team 
     for the Air National Guard and Army National Guard units.
       (c) Comparison to Full-time Members of Reserve 
     Components.--As part of the feasibility study conducted under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary shall assess the mental health 
     risk of part-time members of the reserve components of the 
     Armed Forces as compared to full-time members of the reserve 
     components of the Armed Forces.
       (d) Use of Existing Models.--In conducting the feasibility 
     study under subsection (a), the Secretary, to the extent 
     practicable, shall make use of existing models for 
     preventative mental health care.

     SEC. 733. REPORT ON PLAN TO IMPROVE PEDIATRIC CARE AND 
                   RELATED SERVICES FOR CHILDREN OF MEMBERS OF THE 
                   ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a report setting forth a plan of 
     the Department of Defense to improve pediatric care and 
     related services for children of members of the Armed Forces.
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) In order to ensure that children receive 
     developmentally appropriate and age-appropriate health care 
     services from the Department, a plan to align preventive 
     pediatric care under the TRICARE program with--
       (A) standards for such care as required by the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148);
       (B) guidelines established for such care by the Early and 
     Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment program under 
     the Medicaid program carried out under title XIX of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.); and
       (C) recommendations by organizations that specialize in 
     pediatrics.
       (2) A plan to develop a uniform definition of ``pediatric 
     medical necessity'' for the Department that aligns with 
     recommendations of organizations that specialize in 
     pediatrics in order to ensure that a consistent definition of 
     such term is used in providing health care in military 
     treatment facilities and by health care providers under the 
     TRICARE program.
       (3) A plan to develop measures to evaluate and improve 
     access to pediatric care, coordination of pediatric care, and 
     health outcomes for such children.
       (4) A plan to include an assessment of access to pediatric 
     specialty care in the annual report to Congress on the 
     effectiveness of the TRICARE program.

[[Page H8749]]

       (5) A plan to improve the quality of and access to 
     behavioral health care under the TRICARE program for children 
     of members of the Armed Forces, including intensive 
     outpatient and partial hospitalization services.
       (6) A plan to mitigate the impact of permanent changes of 
     station and other service-related relocations of members of 
     the Armed Forces on the continuity of health care services 
     received by such children who have special medical or 
     behavioral health needs.
       (7) A plan to mitigate deficiencies in data collection, 
     data utilization, and data analysis to improve pediatric care 
     and related services for children of members of the Armed 
     Forces.
       (c) TRICARE Program Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``TRICARE program'' has the meaning given such term in 
     section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.

     SEC. 734. LONGITUDINAL MEDICAL STUDY ON BLAST PRESSURE 
                   EXPOSURE OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
     longitudinal medical study on blast pressure exposure of 
     members of the Armed Forces during combat and training, 
     including members who train with any high overpressure weapon 
     system, such as anti-tank recoilless rifles or heavy-caliber 
     sniper rifles.
       (b) Elements.--The study required under subsection (a) 
     shall--
       (1) monitor, record, and analyze data on blast pressure 
     exposure for any member of the Armed Forces who is likely to 
     be exposed to a blast in training or combat;
       (2) assess the feasibility and advisability of including 
     blast exposure history as part of the service record of a 
     member, as a blast exposure log, in order to ensure that, if 
     medical issues arise later, the member receives care for any 
     service-connected injuries; and
       (3) review the safety precautions surrounding heavy weapons 
     training to account for emerging research on blast exposure 
     and the effects of such exposure on cognitive performance of 
     members of the Armed Forces.
       (c) Reports.--
       (1) Interim report.--Not later than one year after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to 
     the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
     of Representatives an interim report on the study methods and 
     action plan for the study under subsection (a).
       (2) Final report.--Not later than four years after the date 
     the Secretary begins the study under subsection (a), the 
     Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
     the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
     results of such study.

     SEC. 735. STUDY ON SAFE OPIOID PRESCRIBING PRACTICES.

       (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study 
     on the effectiveness of the training provided to military 
     health care providers regarding opioid prescribing practices, 
     initiatives in opioid safety, the use of the VA/DOD Clinical 
     Practice Guideline for Management of Opioid Therapy for 
     Chronic Pain, and other related training.
       (b) Elements.--The study under subsection (a) shall address 
     the effectiveness of training with respect to the following:
       (1) Identifying and treating individuals with chronic pain.
       (2) Reducing the total number of prescription opioids 
     dispensed by the Department of Defense to beneficiaries of 
     health care furnished by the Department.
       (3) Prescribing practices for opioid analgesic therapy, 
     including--
       (A) reducing average dosage sizes;
       (B) reducing the average number of dosages;
       (C) reducing initial and average durations of opioid 
     analgesic therapy;
       (D) reducing dose escalation when opioid analgesic therapy 
     results in adequate pain reduction; and
       (E) reducing the average number of prescription opioid 
     analgesics dispensed by the Department of Defense.
       (4) Reducing the number of overdoses due to prescription 
     opioids for patients with acute pain and patients undergoing 
     opioid therapy for chronic pain.
       (5) Providing counseling and referrals to treatment 
     alternatives to opioid analgesics.
       (6) Providing education on the risks of opioid medications 
     to individuals for whom such medications are prescribed, and 
     to their families, with special consideration given to 
     raising awareness among adolescents on such risks.
       (7) Effectiveness in communicating to military health care 
     providers changes in policies of the Department of Defense 
     regarding opioid safety and prescribing practices.
       (c) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall also 
     consider the feasibility and advisability of further 
     strengthening opioid prescribing practices by means of the 
     following:
       (1) Developing and implementing a physician advisory 
     committee of the Department of Defense regarding education 
     programs for prescribers of opioid analgesics.
       (2) Developing methods to encourage health care providers 
     of the Department to use physical therapy or alternative 
     methods to treat acute or chronic pain.
       (3) Developing curricula regarding pain management and safe 
     opioid analgesic prescription practices that incorporate 
     opioid analgesic prescribing guidelines issued by the Centers 
     for Disease Control and Prevention.
       (d) Briefing.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate a briefing on the results of the study under 
     subsection (a) and the assessment under subsection (c).

     SEC. 736. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF GAO RECOMMENDATIONS.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to 
     the congressional defense committees on the implementation by 
     the Department of Defense of the recommendations from the 
     Government Accountability Office report entitled ``Actions 
     Needed to Ensure Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic 
     Brain Injury Are Considered in Misconduct Separations'' and 
     published May 16, 2017.

     SEC. 737. DECLASSIFICATION BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF 
                   CERTAIN INCIDENTS OF EXPOSURE OF MEMBERS OF THE 
                   ARMED FORCES TO TOXIC SUBSTANCES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
     declassification review of documents related to any known 
     incident in which not fewer than 100 members of the Armed 
     Forces were intentionally exposed to a toxic substance that 
     resulted in at least one case of a disability that a member 
     of the medical profession has determined to be associated 
     with that toxic substance.
       (b) Limitation.--The declassification required by 
     subsection (a) shall be limited to information necessary for 
     an individual who was potentially exposed to a toxic 
     substance to determine the following:
       (1) Whether that individual was exposed to that toxic 
     substance.
       (2) The potential severity of the exposure of that 
     individual to that toxic substance.
       (3) Any potential health conditions that may have resulted 
     from exposure to that toxic substance.
       (c) Exception.--The Secretary of Defense is not required to 
     declassify documents under subsection (a) if the Secretary 
     determines that declassification of those documents would 
     materially and immediately threaten the security of the 
     United States.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Armed forces.--The term ``Armed Forces'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 101 of title 10, United 
     States Code.
       (2) Exposed.--The term ``exposed'' means, with respect to a 
     toxic substance, that an individual came into contact with 
     that toxic substance in a manner that could be hazardous to 
     the health of that individual, that may include if that toxic 
     substance was inhaled, ingested, or touched the skin or eyes.
       (3) Exposure.--The term ``exposure'' means, with respect to 
     a toxic substance, an event during which an individual was 
     exposed to that toxic substance.
       (4) Toxic substance.--The term ``toxic substance'' means 
     any substance determined by the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to be harmful to the 
     environment or hazardous to the health of an individual if 
     inhaled or ingested by or absorbed through the skin of that 
     individual.

     SEC. 738. COORDINATION BY VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION OF 
                   EFFORTS TO UNDERSTAND EFFECTS OF BURN PITS.

       The Under Secretary for Health of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, acting through the Office of Public Health 
     of the Veterans Health Administration, shall coordinate 
     efforts related to furthering understanding of burn pits, the 
     effect of burn pits on veterans, and effective treatments 
     relating to such effects, including with respect to research 
     efforts and training of clinical staff on related matters.

     SEC. 739. TRICARE TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

       (a) Definition of TRICARE Standard.--Paragraph (15) of 
     section 1072 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to 
     read as follows:
       ``(15) The term `TRICARE Standard' means the TRICARE 
     program made available prior to January 1, 2018, covering 
     health benefits contracted for under the authority of section 
     1079(a) or 1086(a) of this title and subject to the same 
     rates and conditions as apply to persons covered under those 
     sections.''.
       (b) Cost-sharing Amounts.--
       (1) TRICARE select.--
       (A) Allowance of cost-sharing amounts as determined by the 
     secretary.--Subsection (d) of section 1075 of such title is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The cost-sharing requirements applicable to services 
     not specifically addressed in the table set forth in 
     paragraph (1) shall be established by the Secretary.''.
       (B) Modification of reference to ambulance civilian 
     network.--Paragraph (1) of such subsection is amended, in the 
     first column of the table, by striking ``Ambulance civilian 
     network'' and inserting ``Ground ambulance civilian 
     network''.
       (2) TRICARE prime.--
       (A) Allowance of cost-sharing amounts as determined by the 
     secretary.--Subsection (b) of section 1075a of such title is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The cost-sharing requirements applicable to services 
     not specifically addressed in the table set forth in 
     paragraph (1) shall be established by the Secretary.''.
       (B) Modification of reference to ambulance civilian 
     network.--Paragraph (1) of such section is amended, in the 
     first column of the table, by striking ``Ambulance civilian 
     network'' and inserting ``Ground ambulance civilian 
     network''.
       (c) Medical Care for Dependents.--
       (1) Reference to medically necessary vitamins.--Paragraphs 
     (3) and (18) of section 1077(a) of such title are amended by 
     striking ``subsection (g)'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``subsection (h)''.
       (2) Eligibility of dependents to purchase hearing aids.--
     Section 1077(g) of such title is amended by striking ``of 
     former members of the uniformed services'' and inserting 
     ``eligible for care under this section''.
       (d) Modification of Reference to Fiscal Year.--
       (1) Contracts for medical care for spouses and children.--
     Section 1079(b) such

[[Page H8750]]

     title is amended by striking ``fiscal year'' each place it 
     appears and inserting ``calendar year''.
       (2) Contracts for health benefits for certain members, 
     former members, and their dependents.--Section 1086(b) of 
     such title is amended by striking ``fiscal year'' each place 
     it appears and inserting ``calendar year''.
       (e) Referrals and Preauthorizations for TRICARE Prime.--
       (1) Preauthorization for care at residential treatment 
     centers.--Section 1095f(b) of such title is amended by adding 
     at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) Inpatient care at a residential treatment center.''.
       (2) Reference.--Section 1075a(c) of such title is amended 
     by striking ``section 1075f(a)'' and inserting ``section 
     1095f(a)''.
       (f) Applicability of Premium for Dependent Coverage.--
     Section 1110b(c)(1) of such title is amended by striking 
     ``section 1075 of this section'' and inserting ``section 1075 
     or 1075a of this title, as appropriate''.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Statements of purpose for Department of Defense acquisition.
Sec. 802. Management of intellectual property matters within the 
              Department of Defense.
Sec. 803. Performance of incurred cost audits.
Sec. 804. Repeal of certain auditing requirements.
Sec. 805. Increased simplified acquisition threshold.
Sec. 806. Requirements related to the micro-purchase threshold.
Sec. 807. Process for enhanced supply chain scrutiny.
Sec. 808. Defense policy advisory committee on technology.
Sec. 809. Report on extension of development, acquisition, and 
              sustainment authorities of the military departments to 
              the United States Special Operations Command.
Sec. 810 . Technical and conforming amendments related to program 
              management provisions.

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

Sec. 811. Modifications to cost or pricing data and reporting 
              requirements.
Sec. 812. Applicability of cost and pricing data certification 
              requirements.
Sec. 813. Sunset of certain provisions relating to the procurement of 
              goods other than United States goods.
Sec. 814. Comptroller General report on health and safety records.
Sec. 815. Limitation on unilateral definitization.
Sec. 816. Amendment to sustainment reviews.
Sec. 817. Use of program income by eligible entities that carry out 
              procurement technical assistance programs.
Sec. 818. Enhanced post-award debriefing rights.
Sec. 819. Amendments relating to information technology.
Sec. 820. Change to definition of subcontract in certain circumstances.
Sec. 821. Amendment relating to applicability of inflation adjustments.
Sec. 822. Use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection 
              process.
Sec. 823. Exemption from design-build selection procedures.
Sec. 824. Contract closeout authority.
Sec. 825. Elimination of cost underruns as factor in calculation of 
              penalties for cost overruns.
Sec. 826. Modification to annual meeting requirement of Configuration 
              Steering Boards.
Sec. 827. Pilot program on payment of costs for denied Government 
              Accountability Office bid protests.

 Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 831. Revisions to definition of major defense acquisition program.
Sec. 832. Prohibition on use of lowest price technically acceptable 
              source selection process for major defense acquisition 
              programs.
Sec. 833. Role of the Chief of the armed force in material development 
              decision and acquisition system milestones.
Sec. 834. Requirement to emphasize reliability and maintainability in 
              weapon system design.
Sec. 835. Licensing of appropriate intellectual property to support 
              major weapon systems.
Sec. 836. Codification of requirements pertaining to assessment, 
              management, and control of operating and support costs 
              for major weapon systems.
Sec. 837. Should-cost management.
Sec. 838. Improvements to test and evaluation processes and tools.
Sec. 839. Enhancements to transparency in test and evaluation processes 
              and data.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 841. Enhancements to the civilian program management workforce.
Sec. 842. Credits to Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
              Development Fund.
Sec. 843. Improvements to the hiring and training of the acquisition 
              workforce.
Sec. 844. Extension and modifications to acquisition demonstration 
              project.

          Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

Sec. 846. Procurement through commercial e-commerce portals.
Sec. 847. Revision to definition of commercial item.
Sec. 848. Commercial item determinations.
Sec. 849. Review of regulations on commercial items.
Sec. 850. Training in commercial items procurement.

        Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Services Contracting

Sec. 851. Improvement of planning for acquisition of services.
Sec. 852. Standard guidelines for evaluation of requirements for 
              services contracts.
Sec. 853. Report on outcome-based services contracts.
Sec. 854. Pilot program for longer term multiyear service contracts.

  Subtitle G--Provisions Relating to Other Transaction Authority and 
                              Prototyping

Sec. 861. Contract authority for advanced development of initial or 
              additional prototype units.
Sec. 862. Methods for entering into research agreements.
Sec. 863. Education and training for transactions other than contracts 
              and grants.
Sec. 864. Other transaction authority for certain prototype projects.
Sec. 865. Amendment to nontraditional and small contractor innovation 
              prototyping program.
Sec. 866. Middle tier of acquisition for rapid prototype and rapid 
              fielding.
Sec. 867. Preference for use of other transactions and experimental 
              authority.
Sec. 868. Prototype projects to digitize defense acquisition 
              regulations, policies, and guidance, and empower user 
              tailoring of acquisition process.

        Subtitle H--Provisions Relating to Software Acquisition

Sec. 871. Noncommercial computer software acquisition considerations.
Sec. 872. Defense Innovation Board analysis of software acquisition 
              regulations.
Sec. 873. Pilot program to use agile or iterative development methods 
              to tailor major software-intensive warfighting systems 
              and defense business systems.
Sec. 874. Software development pilot program using agile best 
              practices.
Sec. 875. Pilot program for open source software.

                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

Sec. 881. Extension of maximum duration of fuel storage contracts.
Sec. 882. Procurement of aviation critical safety items.
Sec. 883. Modifications to the advisory panel on streamlining and 
              codifying acquisition regulations.
Sec. 884. Repeal of expired pilot program for leasing commercial 
              utility cargo vehicles.
Sec. 885. Exception for business operations from requirement to accept 
              $1 coins.
Sec. 886. Development of Procurement Administrative Lead Time.
Sec. 887. Notional milestones and standard timelines for contracts for 
              foreign military sales.
Sec. 888. Assessment and authority to terminate or prohibit contracts 
              for procurement from Chinese companies providing support 
              to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
Sec. 889. Report on defense contracting fraud.
Sec. 890. Comptroller General report on contractor business system 
              requirements.
Sec. 891. Training on agile or iterative development methods.

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

     SEC. 801. STATEMENTS OF PURPOSE FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   ACQUISITION.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Defense 
     Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement to include the 
     following statements of purpose:
       (1) The defense acquisition system (as defined in section 
     2545 of title 10, United States Code) exists to manage the 
     investments of the United States in technologies, programs, 
     and product support necessary to achieve the national 
     security strategy prescribed by the President pursuant to 
     section 108 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3043) and to support the United States Armed Forces.
       (2) The investment strategy of the Department of Defense 
     shall be postured to support not only the current United 
     States Armed Forces, but also future Armed Forces of the 
     United States.
       (3) The primary objective of Department of Defense 
     acquisition is to acquire quality products that satisfy user 
     needs with measurable improvements to mission capability and 
     operational support, in a timely manner, and at a fair and 
     reasonable price.

     SEC. 802. MANAGEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MATTERS WITHIN 
                   THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Management of Intellectual Property.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2321 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2322. Management of intellectual property matters 
       within the Department of Defense

       ``(a) Policy Required.--The Secretary of Defense, acting 
     through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment, shall

[[Page H8751]]

     develop policy on the acquisition or licensing of 
     intellectual property--
       ``(1) to enable coordination and consistency across the 
     military departments and the Department of Defense in 
     strategies for acquiring or licensing intellectual property 
     and communicating with industry;
       ``(2) to ensure that program managers are aware of the 
     rights afforded the Federal Government and contractors in 
     intellectual property and that program managers fully 
     consider and use all available techniques and best practices 
     for acquiring or licensing intellectual property early in the 
     acquisition process; and
       ``(3) to encourage customized intellectual property 
     strategies for each system based on, at a minimum, the unique 
     characteristics of the system and its components, the product 
     support strategy for the system, the organic industrial base 
     strategy of the military department concerned, and the 
     commercial market.
       ``(b) Cadre of Intellectual Property Experts.--(1) The 
     Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall establish a 
     cadre of personnel who are experts in intellectual property 
     matters. The purpose of the cadre is to ensure a consistent, 
     strategic, and highly knowledgeable approach to acquiring or 
     licensing intellectual property by providing expert advice, 
     assistance, and resources to the acquisition workforce on 
     intellectual property matters, including acquiring or 
     licensing intellectual property.
       ``(2) The Under Secretary shall establish an appropriate 
     leadership structure and office within which the cadre shall 
     be managed, and shall determine the appropriate official to 
     whom members of the cadre shall report.
       ``(3) The cadre of experts shall be assigned to a program 
     office or an acquisition command within a military department 
     to advise, assist, and provide resources to a program manager 
     or program executive officer on intellectual property matters 
     at various stages of the life cycle of a system. In 
     performing such duties, the experts shall--
       ``(A) interpret and provide counsel on laws, regulations, 
     and policies relating to intellectual property;
       ``(B) advise and assist in the development of an 
     acquisition strategy, product support strategy, and 
     intellectual property strategy for a system;
       ``(C) conduct or assist with financial analysis and 
     valuation of intellectual property;
       ``(D) assist in the drafting of a solicitation, contract, 
     or other transaction;
       ``(E) interact with or assist in interactions with 
     contractors, including communications and negotiations with 
     contractors on solicitations and awards; and
       ``(F) conduct or assist with mediation if technical data 
     delivered pursuant to a contract is incomplete or does not 
     comply with the terms of agreements.
       ``(4)(A) In order to achieve the purpose set forth in 
     paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall ensure the cadre has 
     the appropriate number of staff and such staff possesses the 
     necessary skills, knowledge, and experience to carry out the 
     duties under paragraph (2), including in relevant areas of 
     law, contracting, acquisition, logistics, engineering, 
     financial analysis, and valuation. The Under Secretary, in 
     coordination with the Defense Acquisition University and in 
     consultation with academia and industry, shall develop a 
     career path, including development opportunities, exchanges, 
     talent management programs, and training, for the cadre. The 
     Under Secretary may use existing authorities to staff the 
     cadre, including those in subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and 
     (F).
       ``(B) Civilian personnel from within the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff, military departments, 
     Defense Agencies, and combatant commands may be assigned to 
     serve as members of the cadre, upon request of the Director.
       ``(C) The Under Secretary may use the authorities for 
     highly qualified experts under section 9903 of title 5, to 
     hire experts as members of the cadre who are skilled 
     professionals in intellectual property and related matters.
       ``(D) The Under Secretary may enter into a contract with a 
     private-sector entity for specialized expertise to support 
     the cadre. Such entity may be considered a covered Government 
     support contractor, as defined in section 2320 of this title.
       ``(E) In establishing the cadre, the Under Secretary shall 
     give preference to civilian employees of the Department of 
     Defense, rather than members of the armed forces, to maintain 
     continuity in the cadre.
       ``(F) The Under Secretary is authorized to use amounts in 
     the Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund for the 
     purpose of recruitment, training, and retention of the cadre, 
     including paying salaries of newly hired members of the cadre 
     for up to three years.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``2322. Management of intellectual property matters within the 
              Department of Defense.''.
       (b) Additional Acquisition Position.--Subsection 1721(b) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(12) Intellectual property.''.

     SEC. 803. PERFORMANCE OF INCURRED COST AUDITS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2313a the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2313b. Performance of incurred cost audits

       ``(a) Compliance With Standards of Risk and Materiality.--
     Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall comply with commercially accepted standards of risk and 
     materiality in the performance of each incurred cost audit of 
     costs associated with a contract of the Department of 
     Defense.
       ``(b) Conditions for the Use of Qualified Auditors to 
     Perform Incurred Cost Audits.--(1) To support the need of the 
     Department of Defense for timely and effective incurred cost 
     audits, and to ensure that the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     is able to allocate resources to higher-risk and more complex 
     audits, the Secretary of Defense shall use qualified private 
     auditors to perform a sufficient number of incurred cost 
     audits of contracts of the Department of Defense to--
       ``(A) eliminate, by October 1, 2020, any backlog of 
     incurred cost audits of the Defense Contract Audit Agency;
       ``(B) ensure that incurred cost audits are completed not 
     later than one year after the date of receipt of a qualified 
     incurred cost submission;
       ``(C) maintain an appropriate mix of Government and private 
     sector capacity to meet the current and future needs of the 
     Department of Defense for the performance of incurred cost 
     audits;
       ``(D) ensure that qualified private auditors perform 
     incurred cost audits on an ongoing basis to improve the 
     efficiency and effectiveness of the performance of incurred 
     cost audits; and
       ``(E) limit multiyear auditing to ensure that multiyear 
     auditing is conducted only--
       ``(A) to address outstanding incurred cost audits for which 
     a qualified incurred cost submission was submitted to the 
     Defense Contract Audit Agency more than 12 months before the 
     date of the enactment of this section; or
       ``(B) when the contractor being audited submits a written 
     request, including a justification for the use of multiyear 
     auditing, to the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
       ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall consult with Federal 
     agencies that have awarded contracts or task orders to 
     qualified private auditors to ensure that the Department of 
     Defense is using, as appropriate, best practices relating to 
     contracting with qualified private auditors.
       ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that a 
     qualified private auditor performing an incurred cost audit 
     under this section--
       ``(A) has no conflict of interest in performing such an 
     audit, as defined by generally accepted government auditing 
     standards;
       ``(B) possesses the necessary independence to perform such 
     an audit, as defined by generally accepted government 
     auditing standards;
       ``(C) signs a nondisclosure agreement, as appropriate, to 
     protect proprietary or nonpublic data;
       ``(D) accesses and uses proprietary or nonpublic data 
     furnished to the qualified private auditor only for the 
     purposes stated in the contract;
       ``(E) takes all reasonable steps to protect proprietary and 
     nonpublic data furnished during the audit; and
       ``(F) does not use proprietary or nonpublic data provided 
     to the qualified private auditor under the authority of this 
     section to compete for Government or nongovernment contracts.
       ``(c) Procedures for the Use of Qualified Private 
     Auditors.--(1) Not later than October 1, 2018, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a plan to implement the requirements of subsection 
     (b). Such plan shall include, at a minimum--
       ``(A) a description of the incurred cost audits that the 
     Secretary determines are appropriate to be conducted by 
     qualified private auditors, including the approximate number 
     and dollar value of such incurred cost audits;
       ``(B) an estimate of the number and dollar value of 
     incurred cost audits to be conducted by qualified private 
     auditors for each of the fiscal years 2019 through 2025 
     necessary to meet the requirements of subsection (b); and
       ``(C) all other elements of an acquisition plan as required 
     by the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
       ``(2) Not later than April 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
     Defense or a Federal department or agency authorized by the 
     Secretary shall award a contract or issue a task order under 
     an existing contract to two or more qualified private 
     auditors to perform incurred cost audits of costs associated 
     with contracts of the Department of Defense. The Defense 
     Contract Management Agency or a contract administration 
     office of a military department shall use a contract or a 
     task order awarded or issued pursuant to this paragraph for 
     the performance of an incurred cost audit, if doing so will 
     assist the Secretary in meeting the requirements in 
     subsection (b).
       ``(3) To improve the quality of incurred cost audits and 
     reduce duplication of performance of such audits, the 
     Secretary of Defense may provide a qualified private auditor 
     with information on past or ongoing audit results or other 
     relevant information on the entities the qualified private 
     auditor is auditing.
       ``(4) The Secretary of Defense shall consider the results 
     of an incurred cost audit performed under this section 
     without regard to whether the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     or a qualified private auditor performed the audit.
       ``(5) The contracting officer for a contract that is the 
     subject of an incurred cost audit shall have the sole 
     discretion to determine what action should be taken based on 
     an audit finding on direct costs of the contract.
       ``(d) Qualified Private Auditor Requirements.--(1) A 
     qualified private auditor awarded a contract or issued an 
     task order under subsection (c)(2) shall conduct an incurred 
     cost audit in accordance with the generally accepted 
     government auditing standards.
       ``(2) A qualified private auditor awarded a contract or 
     issued an task order under subsection (c)(2) shall develop 
     and maintain complete and accurate working papers on each 
     incurred cost audit. All working papers and reports on the 
     incurred cost audit prepared by such qualified private 
     auditor shall be the property of the Department of Defense, 
     except that

[[Page H8752]]

     the qualified private auditor may retain a complete copy of 
     all working papers to support such reports made pursuant to 
     this section.
       ``(3) A breach of contract by a qualified private auditor 
     with respect to use of proprietary or nonpublic data may 
     subject the qualified private auditor to--
       ``(A) criminal, civil, administrative, and contractual 
     actions for penalties, damages, and other appropriate 
     remedies by the United States; and
       ``(B) civil actions for damages and other appropriate 
     remedies by the contractor or subcontractor whose data are 
     affected by the breach.
       ``(e) Peer Review.--(1) Effective October 1, 2022, the 
     Defense Contract Audit Agency may issue unqualified audit 
     findings for an incurred cost audit only if the Defense 
     Contract Audit Agency is peer reviewed by a commercial 
     auditor and passes such peer review. Such peer review shall 
     be conducted in accordance with the peer review requirements 
     of generally accepted government auditing standards, 
     including the requirements related to frequency of peer 
     reviews, and shall be deemed to meet the requirements of the 
     Defense Contract Audit Agency for a peer review under such 
     standards.
       ``(2) Not later than October 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of 
     the Senate and the House of Representatives an update on the 
     process of securing a commercial auditor to perform the peer 
     review referred to in paragraph (1).
       ``(f) Numeric Materiality Standards for Incurred Cost 
     Audits.--(1) Not later than October 1, 2020, the Department 
     of Defense shall implement numeric materiality standards for 
     incurred cost audits to be used by auditors that are 
     consistent with commercially accepted standards of risk and 
     materiality.
       ``(2) Not later than October 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a report containing proposed numeric materiality standards 
     required under paragraph (1). In developing such standards, 
     the Secretary shall consult with commercial auditors that 
     conduct incurred cost audits, the advisory panel authorized 
     under section 809 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 889), and 
     other governmental and nongovernmental entities with relevant 
     expertise.
       ``(g) Timeliness of Incurred Cost Audits.--(1) The 
     Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all incurred cost 
     audits performed by qualified private auditors or the Defense 
     Contract Audit Agency are performed in a timely manner.
       ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall notify a contractor of 
     the Department of Defense within 60 days after receipt of an 
     incurred cost submission from the contractor whether the 
     submission is a qualified incurred cost submission.
       ``(3) With respect to qualified incurred cost submissions 
     received on or after the date of the enactment of this 
     section, audit findings shall be issued for an incurred cost 
     audit not later than one year after the date of receipt of 
     such qualified incurred cost submission.
       ``(4) Not later than October 1, 2020, and subject to 
     paragraph (5), if audit findings are not issued within one 
     year after the date of receipt of a qualified incurred cost 
     submission, the audit shall be considered to be complete and 
     no additional audit work shall be conducted.
       ``(5) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) may 
     waive the requirements of paragraph (4) on a case-by-case 
     basis if the Director of the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     submits a written request. The Director of the Defense 
     Contract Audit Agency shall include in the report required 
     under section 2313a of this title the total number of waivers 
     issued and the reasons for issuing each such waiver.
       ``(h) Review of Audit Performance.--Not later than April 1, 
     2025, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
     evaluates for the period beginning on October 1, 2019, and 
     ending on August 31, 2023--
       ``(1) the timeliness, individual cost, and quality of 
     incurred cost audits, set forth separately by incurred cost 
     audits performed by the Defense Contract Audit Agency and by 
     qualified private auditors;
       ``(2) the cost to contractors of the Department of Defense 
     for incurred cost audits, set forth separately by incurred 
     cost audits performed by the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     and by qualified private auditors;
       ``(3) the effect, if any, on other types of audits 
     conducted by the Defense Contract Audit Agency that results 
     from incurred cost audits conducted by qualified private 
     auditors; and
       ``(4) the capability and capacity of qualified private 
     auditors to conduct incurred cost audits for the Department 
     of Defense.
       ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `commercial auditor' means a private entity 
     engaged in the business of performing audits.
       ``(2) The term `incurred cost audit' means an audit of 
     charges to the Government by a contractor under a flexibly 
     priced contract.
       ``(3) The term `flexibly priced contract' has the meaning 
     given the term `flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts' 
     in part 30 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (section 
     30.001 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations).
       ``(4) The term `generally accepted government auditing 
     standards' means the generally accepted government auditing 
     standards of the Comptroller General of the United States.
       ``(5) The term `numeric materiality standard' means a 
     dollar amount of misstatements, including omissions, 
     contained in an incurred cost audit that would be material if 
     the misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, could 
     reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
     the Government made on the basis of the incurred cost audit.
       ``(6) The term `qualified incurred cost submission' means a 
     submission by a contractor of costs incurred under a flexibly 
     priced contract that has been qualified by the Department of 
     Defense as sufficient to conduct an incurred cost audit.
       ``(7) The term `qualified private auditor' means a 
     commercial auditor--
       ``(A) that performs audits in accordance with generally 
     accepted government auditing standards; and
       ``(B) that has received a passing peer review rating, as 
     defined by generally accepted government auditing 
     standards.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2313a the following new item:

``2313b. Performance of incurred cost audits.''.
       (c) Amendment to Duties of the Advisory Panel on 
     Streamlining and Codifying Acquisition Regulations.--
     Subsection (c)(2) of section 809 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 889), as amended by section 863(d) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2303), is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (D) by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F);
       (3) by adding after subparagraph (D) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(E) improve the efficiency of the contract auditing 
     process, including through the development of risk-based 
     materiality standards; and''; and
       (4) in subparagraph (F) (as so redesignated), by striking 
     ``subparagraphs (A) through (D)'' and inserting 
     ``subparagraphs (A) through (E)''.

     SEC. 804. REPEAL OF CERTAIN AUDITING REQUIREMENTS.

       Section 190 of title 10, United States Code, as proposed to 
     be added by section 820(b)(1) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2274), is amended by striking subsection (f).

     SEC. 805. INCREASED SIMPLIFIED ACQUISITION THRESHOLD.

       Section 134 of title 41, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking ``$100,000'' and inserting ``$250,000''.

     SEC. 806. REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO THE MICRO-PURCHASE 
                   THRESHOLD.

       (a) Increase in Threshold.--Section 1902(a)(1) of title 41, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``$3,000'' and 
     inserting ``$10,000''.
       (b) Convenience Checks.--A convenience check may not be 
     used for an amount in excess of one half of the micro-
     purchase threshold under section 1902(a) of title 41, United 
     States Code, or a lower amount established by the head of the 
     agency.

     SEC. 807. PROCESS FOR ENHANCED SUPPLY CHAIN SCRUTINY.

       (a) Process.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish a process for enhancing scrutiny of acquisition 
     decisions in order to improve the integration of supply chain 
     risk management into the overall acquisition decision cycle.
       (b) Elements.--The process under subsection (a) shall 
     include the following elements:
       (1) Designation of a senior official responsible for 
     overseeing the development and implementation of the process.
       (2) Development or integration of tools to support 
     commercial due-diligence, business intelligence, or otherwise 
     analyze and monitor commercial activity to understand 
     business relationships with entities determined to be threats 
     to the United States.
       (3) Development of risk profiles of products or services 
     based on commercial due-diligence tools and data services.
       (4) Development of education and training curricula for the 
     acquisition workforce that supports the process.
       (5) Integration, as needed, with intelligence sources to 
     develop threat profiles of entities determined to be threats 
     to the United States.
       (6) Periodic review and assessment of software products and 
     services on computer networks of the Department of Defense to 
     remove prohibited products or services.
       (7) Synchronization of the use of current authorities for 
     making supply chain decisions, including section 806 of 
     Public Law 111-383 (10 U.S.C. 2304 note) or improved use of 
     suspension and debarment officials.
       (8) Coordination with interagency, industrial, and 
     international partners, as appropriate, to share information, 
     develop Government-wide strategies for dealing with 
     significant entities determined to be significant threats to 
     the United States, and effectively use authorities in other 
     departments and agencies to provide consistent, Government-
     wide approaches to supply chain threats.
       (9) Other matters as the Secretary considers necessary.
       (c) Notification.--Not later than 90 days after 
     establishing the process required by subsection (a), the 
     Secretary shall provide a written notification to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
     Representatives that the process has been established. The 
     notification also shall include the following:
       (1) Identification of the official designated under 
     subsection (b)(1).
       (2) Identification of tools and services currently 
     available to the Department of Defense under subsection 
     (b)(2).
       (3) Assessment of additional tools and services available 
     under subsection (b)(2) that the Department of Defense should 
     evaluate.
       (4) Identification of, or recommendations for, any 
     statutory changes needed to improve the effectiveness of the 
     process.
       (5) Projected resource needs for implementing any 
     recommendations made by the Secretary.

[[Page H8753]]

  


     SEC. 808. DEFENSE POLICY ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON TECHNOLOGY.

       (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, 
     acting through the Chief Management Officer, shall form a 
     committee of senior executives from United States firms in 
     the national technology and industrial base to meet with the 
     Secretary, the Secretaries of the military departments, and 
     members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to exchange information, 
     including, as appropriate, classified information, on 
     technology threats to the national security of the United 
     States and on the emerging technologies from the national 
     technology and industrial base that may become available to 
     counter such threats in a timely manner.
       (b) Meetings.--The defense policy advisory committee on 
     technology formed pursuant to subsection (a) shall meet with 
     the Secretary and the other Department of Defense officials 
     specified in such subsection collectively at least once 
     annually in each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022. The 
     Secretary of Defense shall provide the congressional defense 
     committees annual briefings on the meetings.
       (c) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the defense 
     policy advisory committee on technology established pursuant 
     to this section.

     SEC. 809. REPORT ON EXTENSION OF DEVELOPMENT, ACQUISITION, 
                   AND SUSTAINMENT AUTHORITIES OF THE MILITARY 
                   DEPARTMENTS TO THE UNITED STATES SPECIAL 
                   OPERATIONS COMMAND.

       (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
     review of the authorities available to the Secretaries of the 
     military departments and the acquisition executives of the 
     military departments for the development, acquisition, and 
     sustainment of technology, equipment, and services for the 
     military departments in order to determine the feasibility 
     and advisability of the provision of such authorities to the 
     Commander of the United States Special Operations Command and 
     the acquisition executive of the Command for the development, 
     acquisition, and sustainment of special operations-peculiar 
     technology, equipment, and services.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report on the review required by subsection 
     (a). The report shall include the following:
       (1) A description of the review.
       (2) An identification of the authorities the Secretary 
     recommends for provision to the Commander of the United 
     States Special Operations Command and the acquisition 
     executive of the Command as described in subsection (a), and 
     recommendations for any modifications of such authorities 
     that the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the 
     United States Special Operations Command.
       (3) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
     action as the Secretary considers appropriate for the 
     provision of authorities identified pursuant to paragraph (2) 
     as described in subsection (a).
       (4) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate in light of the review.

     SEC. 810 . TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATED TO 
                   PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS.

       (a) Repeal of Duplicative Provision Related to Program and 
     Project Management.--Subsection (c) of section 503 of title 
     31, United States Code, as added by section 861(a)(1) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2298), is repealed.
       (b) Repeal of Duplicative Provision Related to Program 
     Management Officers and Program Management Policy Council.--
     Section 1126 of title 31, United States Code, as added by 
     section 861(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2299), is 
     repealed.
       (c) Repeal of Obsolete Provisions.--Section 861 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2299) is repealed.

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

     SEC. 811. MODIFICATIONS TO COST OR PRICING DATA AND REPORTING 
                   REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) Modifications to Submissions of Cost or Pricing Data.--
       (1) Title 10.--Subsection (a) of section 2306a of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by striking ``December 5, 1990'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``June 30, 2018'';
       (B) by striking ``December 5, 1991'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``July 1, 2018'';
       (C) by striking ``$100,000'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``$750,000'';
       (D) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in subparagraphs (A)(i), (B)(i), (C)(i), (C)(ii), and 
     (D)(i), by striking ``$500,000'' and inserting 
     ``$2,000,000''; and
       (ii) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``$500,000'' and 
     inserting ``$750,000'';
       (E) in paragraph (6), by striking ``December 5, 1990'' and 
     inserting ``June 30, 2018''; and
       (F) in paragraph (7), by striking ``to the amount'' and all 
     that follows through ``higher multiple of $50,000.'' and 
     inserting ``in accordance with section 1908 of title 41.''.
       (2) Title 41.--Section 3502 of title 41, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)--
       (i) by striking ``October 13, 1994'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``June 30, 2018'';
       (ii) by striking ``$100,000'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``$750,000'';
       (iii) in paragraphs (1)(A), (2)(A), (3)(A), (3)(B), and 
     (4)(A), by striking ``$500,000'' and inserting 
     ``$2,000,000''; and
       (iv) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``$500,000'' and 
     inserting ``$750,000'';
       (B) in subsection (f), by striking ``October 13, 1994'' and 
     inserting ``June 30, 2018''; and
       (C) in subsection (g), by striking ``to the amount'' and 
     all that follows through ``higher multiple of $50,000.'' and 
     inserting ``in accordance with section 1908.''.
       (b) Modification to Authority to Require Submission.--
     Paragraph (1) of section 2306a(d) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``the contracting officer shall 
     require submission of'' and all the follows through ``to the 
     extent necessary'' and inserting ``the offeror shall be 
     required to submit to the contracting officer data other than 
     certified cost or pricing data (if requested by the 
     contracting officer), to the extent necessary''.
       (c) Comptroller General Review of Modifications to Cost or 
     Pricing Data Submission Requirements.--Not later than March 
     1, 2022, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the implementation and effect of the amendments made by 
     subsections (a) and (b).
       (d) Requirements for Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     Report.--
       (1) In general.--Section 2313a of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)(2)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A)--

       (I) by inserting ``and dollar value'' after ``number''; and
       (II) by inserting ``, set forth separately by type of 
     audit'' after ``pending'';

       (ii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``, both from the 
     date of receipt of a qualified incurred cost submission and 
     from the date the audit begins'' after ``audit'';
       (iii) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as follows:
       ``(D) the sustained questioned costs, set forth separately 
     by type of audit, both as a total value and as a percentage 
     of the total questioned costs for the audit;'';
       (iv) by striking subparagraph (E); and
       (v) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new 
     subparagraphs:
       ``(E) the total number and dollar value of incurred cost 
     audits completed, and the method by which such incurred cost 
     audits were completed;
       ``(F) the aggregate cost of performing audits, set forth 
     separately by type of audit;
       ``(G) the ratio of sustained questioned costs to the 
     aggregate costs of performing audits, set forth separately by 
     type of audit; and
       ``(H) the total number and dollar value of audits that are 
     pending for a period longer than one year as of the end of 
     the fiscal year covered by the report, and the fiscal year in 
     which the qualified submission was received, set forth 
     separately by type of audit;''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) Definitions.--
       ``(1) The terms `incurred cost audit' and `qualified 
     incurred cost submission' have the meaning given those terms 
     in section 2313b of this title.
       ``(2) The term `sustained questioned costs' means 
     questioned costs that were recovered by the Federal 
     Government as a result of contract negotiations related to 
     such questioned costs.''.
       (2) Exemption to report termination requirements.--Section 
     1080(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1000; 10 U.S.C. 111 
     note), as amended by section 1061(j) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2405; 10 U.S.C. 111 note), does not apply to the 
     report required to be submitted to Congress under section 
     2313a of title 10, United States Code.
       (e) Adjustment to Value of Covered Contracts for 
     Requirements Relating to Allowable Costs.--Subparagraph (B) 
     of section 2324(l)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``to the equivalent'' and all that 
     follows through ``higher multiple of $50,000.'' and inserting 
     ``in accordance with section 1908 of title 41.''.

     SEC. 812. APPLICABILITY OF COST AND PRICING DATA 
                   CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.

       Section 830(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2286) is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``same product'' and 
     inserting ``same or similar product'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (4); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
     paragraphs:
       ``(2) Determination of same or similar product.--The 
     Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly 
     determine whether a product is considered to be a similar 
     product for the purposes of this pilot program.
       ``(3) Waiver of cost or pricing certification.--The 
     Secretary of Defense may waive the certification requirement 
     under section 2306a(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, if 
     the Secretary determines that the Federal Government has 
     sufficient data and information regarding the reasonableness 
     of the price.''.

     SEC. 813. SUNSET OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE 
                   PROCUREMENT OF GOODS OTHER THAN UNITED STATES 
                   GOODS.

       (a) Chemical Weapons Antidote.--Section 2534(c) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(5) Chemical weapons antidote.--Subsections (a)(2) and 
     (b)(2) shall cease to be effective on October 1, 2018.''.
       (b) Photovoltaic Devices.--Effective October 1, 2018, 
     section 858 of the Carl Levin and

[[Page H8754]]

     Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 2534 
     note) is repealed.

     SEC. 814. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON HEALTH AND SAFETY 
                   RECORDS.

       (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and 
     the congressional defense committees a report on the safety 
     and health records of Department of Defense contractors.
       (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (A) A description of the existing procedures of the 
     Department of Defense to evaluate the safety and health 
     records of current and prospective contractors.
       (B) An evaluation of the adherence of the Department of 
     Defense to such procedures.
       (C) An assessment of the current incidence of safety and 
     health violations by Department of Defense contractors.
       (D) An assessment of whether the Secretary of Labor has the 
     resources to investigate and identify safety and health 
     violations by Department of Defense contractors.
       (E) An assessment of whether the Secretary of Labor should 
     consider assuming an expanded investigatory role or a 
     targeted enforcement program for ensuring the safety and 
     health of individuals working under Department of Defense 
     contracts.

     SEC. 815. LIMITATION ON UNILATERAL DEFINITIZATION.

       (a) Limitation.--Section 2326 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), 
     (h), and (i) as subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and 
     (j) respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
     subsection (c):
       ``(c) Limitation on Unilateral Definitization by 
     Contracting Officer.--With respect to any undefinitized 
     contractual action with a value greater than $50,000,000, if 
     agreement is not reached on contractual terms, 
     specifications, and price within the period or by the date 
     provided in subsection (b)(1), the contracting officer may 
     not unilaterally definitize those terms, specifications, or 
     price over the objection of the contractor until--
       ``(1) the service acquisition executive for the military 
     department that awarded the contract, or the Under Secretary 
     of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment if the contract 
     was awarded by a Defense Agency or other component of the 
     Department of Defense, approves the definitization in 
     writing;
       ``(2) the contracting officer provides a copy of the 
     written approval to the contractor; and
       ``(3) a period of 30 calendar days has elapsed after the 
     written approval is provided to the contractor.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2326(b)(3) of such title 
     is amended by striking ``subsection (g)'' and inserting 
     ``subsection (h)''.
       (c) Conforming Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to 
     the Federal Acquisition Regulation to implement section 2326 
     of title 10, United States Code, as amended by this section.

     SEC. 816. AMENDMENT TO SUSTAINMENT REVIEWS.

       Section 2441(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following: ``The Secretary concerned 
     shall make the memorandum and supporting documentation for 
     each sustainment review available to the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment within 30 days after 
     the review is completed.''.

     SEC. 817. USE OF PROGRAM INCOME BY ELIGIBLE ENTITIES THAT 
                   CARRY OUT PROCUREMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
                   PROGRAMS.

       Section 2414 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in the section heading, by striking ``limitation'' and 
     inserting ``funding''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) Use of Program Income.--
       ``(1) An eligible entity that earned income in a specified 
     fiscal year from activities carried out pursuant to a 
     procurement technical assistance program funded under this 
     chapter may expend an amount of such income, not to exceed 25 
     percent of the cost of furnishing procurement technical 
     assistance in such specified fiscal year, during the fiscal 
     year following such specified fiscal year, to carry out a 
     procurement technical assistance program funded under this 
     chapter.
       ``(2) An eligible entity that does not enter into a 
     cooperative agreement with the Secretary for a fiscal year--
       ``(A) shall notify the Secretary of the amount of any 
     income the eligible entity carried over from the previous 
     fiscal year; and
       ``(B) may retain an amount of such income equal to 10 
     percent of the value of assistance furnished by the Secretary 
     under this section during the previous fiscal year.
       ``(3) In determining the value of assistance furnished by 
     the Secretary under this section for any fiscal year, the 
     Secretary shall account for the amount of any income the 
     eligible entity carried over from the previous fiscal 
     year.''.

     SEC. 818. ENHANCED POST-AWARD DEBRIEFING RIGHTS.

       (a) Release of Contract Award Information.--Not later than 
     180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense 
     Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to require 
     that all required post-award debriefings, while protecting 
     the confidential and proprietary information of other 
     offerors, include, at a minimum, the following:
       (1) In the case of a contract award in excess of 
     $100,000,000, a requirement for disclosure of the agency's 
     written source selection award determination, redacted to 
     protect the confidential and proprietary information of other 
     offerors for the contract award, and, in the case of a 
     contract award in excess of $10,000,000 and not in excess of 
     $100,000,000 with a small business or nontraditional 
     contractor, an option for the small business or 
     nontraditional contractor to request such disclosure.
       (2) A requirement for a written or oral debriefing for all 
     contract awards and task or delivery orders valued at 
     $10,000,000 or higher.
       (3) Provisions ensuring that both unsuccessful and winning 
     offerors are entitled to the disclosure described in 
     paragraph (1) and the debriefing described in paragraph (2).
       (4) Robust procedures, consistent with section 
     2305(b)(5)(D) of title 10, United States Code, and provisions 
     implementing that section in the Federal Acquisition 
     Regulation, to protect the confidential and proprietary 
     information of other offerors.
       (b) Opportunity for Follow-up Questions.--Section 
     2305(b)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) as 
     subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F), respectively;
       (2) in subparagraph (B)--
       (A) in clause (v), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
     semicolon;
       (B) in clause (vi), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
       ``(vii) an opportunity for a disappointed offeror to 
     submit, within two business days after receiving a post-award 
     debriefing, additional questions related to the 
     debriefing.''; and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(C) The agency shall respond in writing to any additional 
     question submitted under subparagraph (B)(vii) within five 
     business days after receipt of the question. The agency shall 
     not consider the debriefing to be concluded until the agency 
     delivers its written responses to the disappointed 
     offeror.''.
       (c) Commencement of Post-briefing Period.--Section 
     3553(d)(4) of title 31, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
     (i) and (ii) respectively;
       (2) by striking ``The period'' and inserting ``(A) The 
     period''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(B) For procurements conducted by any component of the 
     Department of Defense, the 5-day period described in 
     subparagraph (A)(ii) does not commence until the day the 
     Government delivers to a disappointed offeror the written 
     responses to any questions submitted pursuant to section 
     2305(b)(5)(B)(vii) of title 10.''.

     SEC. 819. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.

       (a) Elimination of Sunset Relating to Transparency and Risk 
     Management of Major Information Technology Investments.--
     Subsection (c) of section 11302 of title 40, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking the first paragraph (5).
       (b) Elimination of Sunset Relating to Information 
     Technology Portfolio, Program, and Resource Reviews.--Section 
     11319 of title 40, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating the second subsection (c) as 
     subsection (d); and
       (2) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by striking 
     paragraph (6).
       (c) Extension of Sunset Relating to Federal Data Center 
     Consolidation Initiative.--Subsection (e) of section 834 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (Public Law 113-291; 44 U.S.C. 3601 note) is amended by 
     striking ``2018'' and inserting ``2020''.

     SEC. 820. CHANGE TO DEFINITION OF SUBCONTRACT IN CERTAIN 
                   CIRCUMSTANCES.

       Section 1906(c)(1) of title 41, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following: ``The term does 
     not include agreements entered into by a contractor for the 
     supply of commodities that are intended for use in the 
     performance of multiple contracts with the Federal Government 
     and other parties and are not identifiable to any particular 
     contract.''.

     SEC. 821. AMENDMENT RELATING TO APPLICABILITY OF INFLATION 
                   ADJUSTMENTS.

       Section 1908(d) of title 41, United States Code, is amended 
     by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
     ``and shall apply, in the case of the procurement of property 
     or services by contract, to a contract, and any subcontract 
     at any tier under the contract, in effect on that date 
     without regard to the date of award of the contract or 
     subcontract.''.

     SEC. 822. USE OF LOWEST PRICE TECHNICALLY ACCEPTABLE SOURCE 
                   SELECTION PROCESS.

       (a) Additional Requirements.--Subsection (b) of section 813 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat 2270; 10 U.S.C. 2305 note) 
     is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
     semicolon;
       (2) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(7) the Department of Defense would realize no, or 
     minimal, additional innovation or future technological 
     advantage by using a different methodology; and

[[Page H8755]]

       ``(8) with respect to a contract for procurement of goods, 
     the goods procured are predominantly expendable in nature, 
     nontechnical, or have a short life expectancy or short shelf 
     life.''.
       (b) Reporting Requirement.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended 
     by striking ``contract exceeding $10,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``contract exceeding $5,000,000''.
       (2) Applicability.--The amendment made by this subsection 
     shall apply with respect to the second, third, and fourth 
     reports submitted under subsection (d) of section 813 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat 2271; 10 U.S.C. 2305 note).

     SEC. 823. EXEMPTION FROM DESIGN-BUILD SELECTION PROCEDURES.

       Subsection (d) of section 2305a of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking the second and third sentences 
     and inserting the following: ``If the contract value exceeds 
     $4,000,000, the maximum number specified in the solicitation 
     shall not exceed 5 unless--
       ``(1) the solicitation is issued pursuant to a indefinite 
     delivery-indefinite quantity contract for design-build 
     construction; or
       ``(2)(A) the head of the contracting activity, delegable to 
     a level no lower than the senior contracting official within 
     the contracting activity, approves the contracting officer's 
     justification with respect to an individual solicitation that 
     a maximum number greater than 5 is in the interest of the 
     Federal Government; and
       ``(B) the contracting officer provides written 
     documentation of how a maximum number greater than 5 is 
     consistent with the purposes and objectives of the two-phase 
     selection procedures.''.

     SEC. 824. CONTRACT CLOSEOUT AUTHORITY.

       Section 836(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2286) is 
     amended by striking ``entered into prior to fiscal year 
     2000'' and inserting ``entered into on a date that is at 
     least 17 fiscal years before the current fiscal year''.

     SEC. 825. ELIMINATION OF COST UNDERRUNS AS FACTOR IN 
                   CALCULATION OF PENALTIES FOR COST OVERRUNS.

       (a) In General.--Section 828 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 
     U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``each fiscal year 
     beginning with fiscal year 2015'' and inserting ``each of 
     fiscal years 2018 through 2022'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or underrun'';
       (B) in paragraph (2)--
       (i) by striking ``or underruns''; and
       (ii) by striking ``,Technology, and Logistics'' and 
     inserting ``and Sustainment'';
       (C) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by striking ``and cost underruns''; and
       (ii) by striking ``or underruns''; and
       (D) in paragraph (4), by striking ``, except that the cost 
     overrun penalty may not be a negative amount'';
       (3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
     (d) and (e), respectively;
       (4) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(c) Total Cost Overrun Penalty.--Notwithstanding the 
     amount of a cost overrun penalty determined in (b), the total 
     cost overrun penalty for a military department (including any 
     cost overrun penalty for joint programs of military 
     departments) for a fiscal year may not exceed $50,000,000.''; 
     and
       (5) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in the paragraph heading, by inserting ``or 
     procurement'' after ``evaluation'';
       (ii) by striking ``each fiscal year beginning with fiscal 
     year 2015'' and inserting ``each of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022'';
       (iii) by striking ``each research'' and inserting ``the 
     research'';
       (iv) by striking ``evaluation account'' and inserting 
     ``evaluation or procurement accounts''; and
       (v) by striking ``percentage'' and inserting ``amount''; 
     and
       (B) in paragraph (2)--
       (i) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``amount'' and 
     inserting ``amounts'';
       (ii) by striking ``percentage reduction'' and inserting 
     ``reductions'';
       (iii) by striking ``evaluation accounts'' and inserting 
     ``evaluation or procurement accounts'';
       (iv) by striking ``paragraph (1) is the percentage 
     reduction'' and inserting ``paragraph (1) are the 
     reductions''; and
       (v) by inserting ``, when combined,'' after ``equal''.
       (b) Prior Fiscal Years.--The requirements of section 828 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note), as in effect on the 
     day before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall 
     continue to apply with respect to fiscal years beginning on 
     or before October 1, 2016.

     SEC. 826. MODIFICATION TO ANNUAL MEETING REQUIREMENT OF 
                   CONFIGURATION STEERING BOARDS.

       Section 814(c)(4) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 
     122 Stat. 4529; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting
       ``(A) Annual meeting.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
     (B), the Secretary''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(B) Exception.--If the service acquisition executive of 
     the military department concerned determines, in writing, 
     that there have been no changes to the program requirements 
     of a major defense acquisition program during the preceding 
     year, the Configuration Steering Board for such major defense 
     acquisition program is not required to meet as described in 
     subparagraph (A).''.

     SEC. 827. PILOT PROGRAM ON PAYMENT OF COSTS FOR DENIED 
                   GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE BID PROTESTS.

       (a) Pilot Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     carry out a pilot program to determine the effectiveness of 
     requiring contractors to reimburse the Department of Defense 
     for costs incurred in processing covered protests.
       (b) Duration.--The pilot program shall--
       (1) begin on the date that is two years after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act; and
       (2) end on the date that is five years after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.
       (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
     the pilot program under subsection (a) ends, the Secretary 
     shall provide a report to the Committees on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate assessing the 
     feasibility of making permanent such pilot program.
       (d) Covered Protest Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered protest'' means a bid protest that was--
       (1) denied in an opinion issued by the Government 
     Accountability Office;
       (2) filed by a party with revenues in excess of 
     $250,000,000 (based on fiscal year 2017 constant dollars) 
     during the previous year; and
       (3) filed on or after October 1, 2019 and on or before 
     September 30, 2022.

 Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

     SEC. 831. REVISIONS TO DEFINITION OF MAJOR DEFENSE 
                   ACQUISITION PROGRAM.

       Section 2430(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting ``in the case of a 
     program that is not a program for the acquisition of an 
     automated information system (either a product or a 
     service),'' after ``(B)''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``does not include an acquisition program'' 
     and inserting the following: ``does not include--
       ``(A) an acquisition program''; and
       (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
     following: ``; or
       ``(B) an acquisition program for a defense business system 
     (as defined in section 2222(i)(1) of this title) carried out 
     using the acquisition guidance issued pursuant to section 
     883(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2223a note).''.

     SEC. 832. PROHIBITION ON USE OF LOWEST PRICE TECHNICALLY 
                   ACCEPTABLE SOURCE SELECTION PROCESS FOR MAJOR 
                   DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.

       (a) Prohibition.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2441 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2442. Prohibition on use of lowest price technically 
       acceptable source selection process

       ``(a) In General.--The Department of Defense shall not use 
     a lowest price technically acceptable source selection 
     process for the engineering and manufacturing development 
     contract of a major defense acquisition program.
       ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Lowest price technically acceptable source selection 
     process.--The term `lowest price technically acceptable 
     source selection process' has the meaning given that term in 
     part 15 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
       ``(2) Major defense acquisition program.--The term `major 
     defense acquisition program' has the meaning given that term 
     in section 2430 of this title.
       ``(3) Engineering and manufacturing development contract.--
     The term `engineering and manufacturing development contract' 
     means a prime contract for the engineering and manufacturing 
     development of a major defense acquisition program.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2441 the following new item:

``2442. Prohibition on use of lowest price technically acceptable 
              source selection process.''.
       (b) Applicability.--The requirements of section 2442 of 
     title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), 
     shall apply to major defense acquisition programs for which 
     budgetary authority is requested for fiscal year 2019 or a 
     subsequent fiscal year.

     SEC. 833. ROLE OF THE CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCE IN MATERIAL 
                   DEVELOPMENT DECISION AND ACQUISITION SYSTEM 
                   MILESTONES.

       Section 2547(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting ``(1) The 
     Secretary''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) Consistent with the performance of duties under 
     subsection (a), the Chief of the armed force concerned, or in 
     the case of a joint program the chiefs of the armed forces 
     concerned, with respect to major defense acquisition 
     programs, shall--
       ``(A) concur with the need for a material solution as 
     identified in the Material Development Decision Review prior 
     to entry into the Material Solution Analysis Phase under 
     Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02;
       ``(B) concur with the cost, schedule, technical 
     feasibility, and performance trade-offs that have been made 
     with regard to the program before Milestone A approval is 
     granted under section 2366a of this title;

[[Page H8756]]

       ``(C) concur that appropriate trade-offs among cost, 
     schedule, technical feasibility, and performance objectives 
     have been made to ensure that the program is affordable when 
     considering the per unit cost and the total life-cycle cost 
     before Milestone B approval is granted under section 2366b of 
     this title; and
       ``(D) concur that the requirements in the program 
     capability document are necessary and realistic in relation 
     to program cost and fielding targets as required by paragraph 
     (1) before Milestone C approval is granted.''.

     SEC. 834. REQUIREMENT TO EMPHASIZE RELIABILITY AND 
                   MAINTAINABILITY IN WEAPON SYSTEM DESIGN.

       (a) Sustainment Factors in Weapon System Design.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United States 
     Code, as amended by section 832, is further amended by adding 
     at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 2443. Sustainment factors in weapon system design

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
     that the defense acquisition system gives ample emphasis to 
     sustainment factors, particularly those factors that are 
     affected principally by the design of a weapon system, in the 
     development of a weapon system.
       ``(b) Requirements Process.--The Secretary shall ensure 
     that reliability and maintainability are included in the 
     performance attributes of the key performance parameter on 
     sustainment during the development of capabilities 
     requirements.
       ``(c) Solicitation and Award of Contracts.--
       ``(1) Requirement.--The program manager of a weapon system 
     shall include in the solicitation for and terms of a covered 
     contract for the weapon system clearly defined and measurable 
     requirements for engineering activities and design 
     specifications for reliability and maintainability.
       ``(2) Exception.--If the program manager determines that 
     engineering activities and design specifications for 
     reliability or maintainability should not be a requirement in 
     a covered contract or a solicitation for such a contract, the 
     program manager shall document in writing the justification 
     for the decision.
       ``(3) Source selection criteria.--The Secretary shall 
     ensure that sustainment factors, including reliability and 
     maintainability, are given ample emphasis in the process for 
     source selection. The Secretary shall encourage the use of 
     objective reliability and maintainability criteria in the 
     evaluation of competitive proposals.
       ``(d) Contract Performance.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
     Department of Defense uses best practices for responding to 
     the positive or negative performance of a contractor in 
     meeting the sustainment requirements of a covered contract 
     for a weapon system. The Secretary shall encourage the use of 
     incentive fees and penalties as appropriate and authorized in 
     paragraph (2) in all covered contracts for weapons systems.
       ``(2) Authority for incentive fees and penalties.--The 
     Secretary of Defense is authorized to include in any covered 
     contract provisions for the payment of incentive fees to the 
     contractor based on achievement of design specification 
     requirements for reliability and maintainability of weapons 
     systems under the contract, or the imposition of penalties to 
     be paid by the contractor to the Government for failure to 
     achieve such design specification requirements. Information 
     about such fees or penalties shall be included in the 
     solicitation for any covered contract that includes such fees 
     or penalties.
       ``(3) Measurement of reliability and maintainability.--In 
     carrying out paragraph (2), the program manager shall base 
     determinations of a contractor's performance on reliability 
     and maintainability data collected during the program. Such 
     data collection and associated evaluation metrics shall be 
     described in detail in the covered contract. To the maximum 
     extent practicable, such data shall be shared with 
     appropriate contractor and government organizations.
       ``(4) Notification.--The Secretary of Defense shall notify 
     the congressional defense committees upon entering into a 
     covered contract that includes incentive fees or penalties 
     authorized in paragraph (2).
       ``(e) Covered Contract Defined.--In this section, the term 
     `covered contract', with respect to a weapon system, means a 
     contract--
       ``(1) for the engineering and manufacturing development of 
     a weapon system, including embedded software; or
       ``(2) for the production of a weapon system, including 
     embedded software.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter I of such chapter, as amended by 
     section 832, is further amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``2443. Sustainment factors in weapon system design.''.
       (b) Effective Date for Certain Provisions.--Subsections (c) 
     and (d) of section 2443 of title 10, United States Code, as 
     added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to any 
     covered contract (as defined in that section) for which the 
     contract solicitation is issued on or after the date 
     occurring one year after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.
       (c) Engineering Change Authorized.--Subject to the 
     availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Defense may 
     fund engineering changes to the design of a weapon system in 
     the engineering and manufacturing development phase or in the 
     production phase of an acquisition program to improve 
     reliability or maintainability of the weapon system and 
     reduce projected operating and support costs.

     SEC. 835. LICENSING OF APPROPRIATE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY TO 
                   SUPPORT MAJOR WEAPON SYSTEMS.

       (a) Negotiation of Price for Technical Data Before 
     Development or Production of Major Weapon System.--
       (1) Requirement.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2438 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2439. Negotiation of price for technical data before 
       development or production of major weapon systems

       ``The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Department 
     of Defense, before selecting a contractor for the engineering 
     and manufacturing development of a major weapon system, or 
     for the production of a major weapon system, negotiates a 
     price for technical data to be delivered under a contract for 
     such development or production.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2438 the following new item:

``2439. Negotiation of price for technical data before development or 
              production of major weapon systems.''.
       (3) Effective date.--Section 2439 of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with 
     respect to any contract for engineering and manufacturing 
     development of a major weapon system, or for the production 
     of a major weapon system, for which the contract solicitation 
     is issued on or after the date occurring one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.
       (b) Written Determination for Milestone B Approval.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection (a)(3) of section 2366b of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (M); and
       (B) by inserting after subparagraph (N) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(O) appropriate actions have been taken to negotiate and 
     enter into a contract or contract options for the technical 
     data required to support the program; and''.
       (2) Effective date.--Section 2366b(a)(3)(O) of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply 
     with respect to any major defense acquisition program 
     receiving Milestone B approval on or after the date occurring 
     one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (c) Preference for Negotiation of Customized License 
     Agreements.--Section 2320 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (g) and (h), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
     subsection (f):
       ``(f) Preference for Specially Negotiated Licenses.--The 
     Secretary of Defense shall, to the maximum extent 
     practicable, negotiate and enter into a contract with a 
     contractor for a specially negotiated license for technical 
     data to support the product support strategy of a major 
     weapon system or subsystem of a major weapon system. In 
     performing the assessment and developing the corresponding 
     strategy required under subsection (e) for such a system or 
     subsystem, a program manager shall consider the use of 
     specially negotiated licenses to acquire customized technical 
     data appropriate for the particular elements of the product 
     support strategy.''.

     SEC. 836. CODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO 
                   ASSESSMENT, MANAGEMENT, AND CONTROL OF 
                   OPERATING AND SUPPORT COSTS FOR MAJOR WEAPON 
                   SYSTEMS.

       (a) Codification and Amendment.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2337 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2337a. Assessment, management, and control of 
       operating and support costs for major weapon systems

       ``(a) Guidance Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     issue and maintain guidance on actions to be taken to assess, 
     manage, and control Department of Defense costs for the 
     operation and support of major weapon systems.
       ``(b) Elements.--The guidance required by subsection (a) 
     shall, at a minimum--
       ``(1) be issued in conjunction with the comprehensive 
     guidance on life-cycle management and the development and 
     implementation of product support strategies for major weapon 
     systems required by section 2337 of this title;
       ``(2) require the military departments to retain each 
     estimate of operating and support costs that is developed at 
     any time during the life cycle of a major weapon system, 
     together with supporting documentation used to develop the 
     estimate;
       ``(3) require the military departments to update estimates 
     of operating and support costs periodically throughout the 
     life cycle of a major weapon system, to determine whether 
     preliminary information and assumptions remain relevant and 
     accurate, and identify and record reasons for variances;
       ``(4) establish policies and procedures for the collection, 
     organization, maintenance, and availability of standardized 
     data on operating and support costs for major weapon systems 
     in accordance with section 2222 of this title;
       ``(5) establish standard requirements for the collection 
     and reporting of data on operating and support costs for 
     major weapon systems by contractors performing weapon system 
     sustainment functions in an appropriate format, and develop 
     contract clauses to ensure that contractors comply with such 
     requirements;
       ``(6) require the military departments--
       ``(A) to collect and retain data from operational and 
     developmental testing and evaluation on the reliability and 
     maintainability of major weapon systems; and
       ``(B) to use such data to inform system design decisions, 
     provide insight into sustainment costs, and inform estimates 
     of operating and support costs for such systems;

[[Page H8757]]

       ``(7) require the military departments to ensure that 
     sustainment factors are fully considered at key life-cycle 
     management decision points and that appropriate measures are 
     taken to reduce operating and support costs by influencing 
     system design early in development, developing sound 
     sustainment strategies, and addressing key drivers of costs;
       ``(8) require the military departments to conduct an 
     independent logistics assessment of each major weapon system 
     prior to key acquisition decision points (including milestone 
     decisions) to identify features that are likely to drive 
     future operating and support costs, changes to system design 
     that could reduce such costs, and effective strategies for 
     managing such costs;
       ``(9) include--
       ``(A) reliability metrics for major weapon systems; and
       ``(B) requirements on the use of metrics under subparagraph 
     (A) as triggers--
       ``(i) to conduct further investigation and analysis into 
     drivers of those metrics; and
       ``(ii) to develop strategies for improving reliability, 
     availability, and maintainability of such systems at an 
     affordable cost; and
       ``(10) require the military departments to conduct periodic 
     reviews of operating and support costs of major weapon 
     systems after such systems achieve initial operational 
     capability to identify and address factors resulting in 
     growth in operating and support costs and adapt support 
     strategies to reduce such costs.
       ``(c) Retention of Data on Operating and Support Costs.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Director of Cost Assessment and 
     Program Evaluation shall be responsible for developing and 
     maintaining a database on operating and support estimates, 
     supporting documentation, and actual operating and support 
     costs for major weapon systems.
       ``(2) Support.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
     the Director, in carrying out such responsibility--
       ``(A) promptly receives the results of all cost estimates 
     and cost analyses conducted by the military departments with 
     regard to operating and support costs of major weapon 
     systems;
       ``(B) has timely access to any records and data of the 
     military departments (including classified and proprietary 
     information) that the Director considers necessary to carry 
     out such responsibility; and
       ``(C) with the concurrence of the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, may direct the 
     military departments to collect and retain information 
     necessary to support the database.
       ``(d) Major Weapon System Defined.--In this section, the 
     term `major weapon system' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 2379(f) of title 10, United States Code.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 137 of such title is amended by adding 
     after the item relating to section 2337 the following new 
     item:

``2337a. Assessment, management, and control of operating and support 
              costs for major weapon systems.''.
       (b) Repeal of Superseded Section.--
       (1) Repeal.--Section 832 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 
     U.S.C. 2430 note) is repealed.
       (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 2441(c) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``section 2337 of 
     this title'' and all that follows through the period and 
     inserting ``sections 2337 and 2337a of this title.''.

     SEC. 837. SHOULD-COST MANAGEMENT.

       (a) Requirement for Regulations.--Not later than 180 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall amend the Defense Supplement to the Federal 
     Acquisition Regulation to provide for the appropriate use of 
     the should-cost review process of a major weapon system in a 
     manner that is transparent, objective, and provides for the 
     efficiency of the systems acquisition process in the 
     Department of the Defense.
       (b) Required Elements.--The regulations required under 
     subsection (a) shall incorporate, at a minimum, the following 
     elements:
       (1) A description of the features of the should-cost review 
     process.
       (2) Establishment of a process for communicating with the 
     prime contractor on the program the elements of a proposed 
     should-cost review.
       (3) A method for ensuring that identified should-cost 
     savings opportunities are based on accurate, complete, and 
     current information and can be quantified and tracked.
       (4) A description of the training, skills, and experience 
     that Department of Defense and contractor officials carrying 
     out a should-cost review in subsection (a) should possess.
       (5) A method for ensuring appropriate collaboration with 
     the contractor throughout the review process.
       (6) Establishment of review process requirements that 
     provide for sufficient analysis and minimize any impact on 
     program schedule.

     SEC. 838. IMPROVEMENTS TO TEST AND EVALUATION PROCESSES AND 
                   TOOLS.

       (a) Developmental Test Plan Sufficiency Assessments.--
       (1) Addition to milestone b brief summary report.--Section 
     2366b(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by redesignating subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (H); 
     and
       (B) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new 
     subparagraph (G):
       ``(G) An assessment of the sufficiency of developmental 
     test and evaluation plans, including the use of automated 
     data analytics or modeling and simulation tools and 
     methodologies.''.
       (2) Addition to milestone c brief summary report.--Section 
     2366c(a) of such title is amended by inserting after 
     paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) An assessment of the sufficiency of the developmental 
     test and evaluation completed, including the use of automated 
     data analytics or modeling and simulation tools and 
     methodologies.''.
       (3) Responsibility for conducting assessments.--For 
     purposes of the sufficiency assessments required by section 
     2366b(c)(1) and section 2366c(a)(4) of such title, as added 
     by paragraphs (1) and (2), with respect to a major defense 
     acquisition program--
       (A) if the milestone decision authority for the program is 
     the service acquisition executive of the military department 
     that is managing the program, the sufficiency assessment 
     shall be conducted by the senior official within the military 
     department with responsibility for developmental testing; and
       (B) if the milestone decision authority for the program is 
     the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment, the sufficiency assessment shall be conducted by 
     the senior Department of Defense official with responsibility 
     for developmental testing.
       (4) Guidance required.--Within one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the senior Department of Defense 
     official with responsibility for developmental testing shall 
     develop guidance for the sufficiency assessments required by 
     section 2366b(c)(1) and section 2366c(a)(4) of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by paragraphs (1) and (2). At a 
     minimum, the guidance shall require--
       (A) for the sufficiency assessment required by section 
     2366b(c)(1) of such title, that the assessment address the 
     sufficiency of--
       (i) the developmental test and evaluation plan;
       (ii) the developmental test and evaluation schedule, 
     including a comparison to historic analogous systems;
       (iii) the developmental test and evaluation resources 
     (facilities, personnel, test assets, data analytics tools, 
     and modeling and simulation capabilities);
       (iv) the risks of developmental test and production 
     concurrency; and
       (v) the developmental test criteria for entering the 
     production phase; and
       (B) for the sufficiency assessment required by section 
     2366c(a)(4) of such title, that the assessment address--
       (i) the sufficiency of the developmental test and 
     evaluation completed;
       (ii) the sufficiency of the plans and resources available 
     for remaining developmental test and evaluation;
       (iii) the risks identified during developmental testing to 
     the production and deployment phase;
       (iv) the sufficiency of the plans and resources for 
     remaining developmental test and evaluation; and
       (v) the readiness of the system to perform scheduled 
     initial operational test and evaluation.
       (b) Evaluation of Department of Defense Need for 
     Centralized Tools for Developmental Test and Evaluation.--The 
     Secretary of Defense shall evaluate the strategy of the 
     Department of Defense for developing and expanding the use of 
     tools designed to facilitate the cost effectiveness and 
     efficiency of developmental testing, including automated test 
     methods and tools, modeling and simulation tools, and data 
     analytics technologies. The evaluation shall include a 
     determination of the appropriate role of the senior 
     Department of Defense official with responsibility for 
     developmental testing in developing enterprise level 
     strategies related to such types of testing tools.

     SEC. 839. ENHANCEMENTS TO TRANSPARENCY IN TEST AND EVALUATION 
                   PROCESSES AND DATA.

       (a) Additional Test and Evaluation Duties of Military 
     Secretaries and Defense Agency Heads.--
       (1) Report on comparison of operational test and evaluation 
     results to legacy items or components.--Concurrent with the 
     submission of a report required under section 2399(b)(2) of 
     title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of a military 
     department or the head of a Defense Agency may provide to the 
     congressional defense committees and the Secretary of Defense 
     a report describing of the performance of the items or 
     components evaluated as part of the operational test and 
     evaluation for each major defense acquisition program 
     conducted under such section by the Director of Operational 
     Test and Evaluation in relation to comparable legacy items or 
     components, if such items or components exist and relevant 
     data are available without requiring additional testing.
       (2) Additional report on operational test and evaluation 
     activities.--Within 45 days after the submission of an annual 
     report required by section 139(h) of title 10, United States 
     Code, the Secretaries of the military departments may each 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     addressing any concerns related to information included in 
     the annual report, or providing updated or additional 
     information, as appropriate.
       (b) Requirements for Collection of Cost Data on Test and 
     Evaluation.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act and subject to paragraph (2), the 
     Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, the senior 
     official of the Department of Defense with responsibility for 
     developmental testing, and the Director of the Test Resource 
     Management Center shall jointly develop policies, procedures, 
     guidance, and a method to collect data that ensures that 
     consistent and high quality data are collected on the full 
     range of estimated and actual developmental, live fire, and 
     operational testing costs for major defense acquisition 
     programs.
       (2) Concurrence and coordination required.--Before 
     implementing the policies, procedures, guidance, and method 
     developed under

[[Page H8758]]

     paragraph (1), the Director of Operational Test and 
     Evaluation, the senior official of the Department of Defense 
     with responsibility for developmental testing, and the 
     Director of the Test Resource Management Center shall--
       (A) obtain the concurrence of the Director for Cost 
     Assessment and Program Evaluation; and
       (B) coordinate with the Secretaries of the military 
     departments.
       (3) Data requirements.--
       (A) Electronic database.--Data on estimated and actual 
     developmental, live fire, and operational testing costs shall 
     be maintained in an electronic database maintained by the 
     Director for Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation or 
     another appropriate official of the Department of Defense, 
     and shall be made available for analysis by testing, 
     acquisition, and other appropriate officials of the 
     Department of Defense, as determined by the Director of 
     Operational Test and Evaluation, the senior official of the 
     Department of Defense with responsibility for developmental 
     testing, or the Director of the Test Resource Management 
     Center.
       (B) Diaggregation by costs.--To the maximum extent 
     practicable, data collected under this subsection shall be 
     set forth separately by costs for developmental testing, 
     operational testing, and training.
       (c) Major Defense Acquisition Program Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``major defense acquisition program'' has 
     the meaning provided in section 2430 of title 10, United 
     States Code.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

     SEC. 841. ENHANCEMENTS TO THE CIVILIAN PROGRAM MANAGEMENT 
                   WORKFORCE.

       (a) Establishment of Program Manager Development Program.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall 
     implement a program manager development program to provide 
     for the professional development of high-potential, 
     experienced civilian personnel. Personnel shall be 
     competitively selected for the program based on their 
     potential to become a program manager of a major defense 
     acquisition program, as defined in section 2430 of title 10, 
     United States Code. The program shall be administered and 
     overseen by the Secretary of each military department, acting 
     through the service acquisition executive for the department 
     concerned.
       (2) Plan required.--Not later than one year after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a comprehensive plan to 
     implement the program established under paragraph (1). In 
     developing the plan, the Secretary of Defense shall seek the 
     input of relevant external parties, including professional 
     associations, other government entities, and industry. The 
     plan shall include the following elements:
       (A) An assessment of the minimum level of subject matter 
     experience, education, years of experience, certifications, 
     and other qualifications required to be selected into the 
     program, set forth separately for current Department of 
     Defense employees and for personnel hired into the program 
     from outside the Department of Defense.
       (B) A description of hiring flexibilities to be used to 
     recruit qualified personnel from outside the Department of 
     Defense.
       (C) A description of the extent to which mobility 
     agreements will be required to be signed by personnel 
     selected for the program during their participation in the 
     program and after their completion of the program. The use of 
     mobility agreements shall be applied to help maximize the 
     flexibility of the Department of Defense in assigning 
     personnel, while not inhibiting the participation of the most 
     capable candidates.
       (D) A description of the tenure obligation required of 
     personnel selected for the program.
       (E) A plan for training during the course of the program, 
     including training in leadership, program management, 
     engineering, finance and budgeting, market research, business 
     acumen, contracting, supplier management, requirement setting 
     and tradeoffs, intellectual property matters, and software.
       (F) A description of career paths to be followed by 
     personnel in the program in order to ensure that personnel in 
     the program gain expertise in the program management 
     functional career field competencies identified by the 
     Department in existing guidance and the topics listed in 
     subparagraph (E), including--
       (i) a determination of the types of advanced educational 
     degrees that enhance program management skills and the 
     mechanisms available to the Department of Defense to 
     facilitate the attainment of those degrees by personnel in 
     the program;
       (ii) a determination of required assignments to positions 
     within acquisition programs, including position type and 
     acquisition category of the program office;
       (iii) a determination of required or encouraged rotations 
     to career broadening positions outside of acquisition 
     programs; and
       (iv) a determination of how the program will ensure the 
     opportunity for a required rotation to industry of at least 
     six months to develop an understanding of industry motivation 
     and business acumen, such as by developing an industry 
     exchange program for civilian program managers, similar to 
     the Corporate Fellows Program of the Secretary of Defense.
       (G) A general description of the number of personnel 
     anticipated to be selected into the program, how frequently 
     selections will occur, how long personnel selected into the 
     program will participate in the program, and how personnel 
     will be placed into an assignment at the completion of the 
     program.
       (H) A description of benefits that will be offered under 
     the program using existing human capital flexibilities to 
     retain qualified employees, such as student loan repayments, 
     bonuses, or pay banding.
       (I) An assessment of personnel flexibilities needed to 
     allow the military departments and the Defense Agencies to 
     reassign or remove program managers that do not perform 
     effectively.
       (J) A description of how the program will be administered 
     and overseen by the Secretaries of each military department, 
     acting through the service acquisition executive for the 
     department concerned.
       (K) A description of how the program will be integrated 
     with existing program manager development efforts at each 
     military department.
       (3) Use of defense acquisition workforce development 
     fund.--Amounts in the Department of Defense Acquisition 
     Workforce Development Fund (established under section 1705 of 
     title 10, United States Code) may be used to pay the base 
     salary of personnel in the program established under 
     paragraph (1) during the period of time such personnel are 
     temporarily assigned to a developmental rotation or training 
     program anticipated to last at least six months.
       (4) Implementation.--The program established under 
     paragraph (1) shall be implemented not later than September 
     30, 2019.
       (b) Independent Study of Incentives for Program Managers.--
       (1) Requirement for study.--Not later than 30 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall enter into a contract with an independent 
     research entity described in paragraph (2) to carry out a 
     comprehensive study of incentives for Department of Defense 
     civilian and military program managers for major defense 
     acquisition programs, including--
       (A) additional pay options for program managers to provide 
     incentives to senior civilian employees and military officers 
     to accept and remain in program manager roles;
       (B) a financial incentive structure to reward program 
     managers for delivering capabilities on budget and on time; 
     and
       (C) a comparison between financial and non-financial 
     incentive structures for program managers in the Department 
     of Defense and an appropriate comparison group of private 
     industry companies.
       (2) Independent research entity.--The entity described in 
     this subsection is an independent research entity that is a 
     not-for-profit entity or a federally funded research and 
     development center with appropriate expertise and analytical 
     capability.
       (3) Reports.--
       (A) To secretary.--Not later than nine months after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the independent research 
     entity shall provide to the Secretary a report containing--
       (i) the results of the study required by paragraph (1); and
       (ii) such recommendations to improve the financial 
     incentive structure of program managers for major defense 
     acquisition programs as the independent research entity 
     considers to be appropriate.
       (B) To congress.--Not later than 30 days after receipt of 
     the report under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit such report, together with any additional views 
     or recommendations of the Secretary, to the congressional 
     defense committees.

     SEC. 842. CREDITS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
                   WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND.

       Section 1705(d)(2)(D) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended to read as follows:
       ``(D) The Secretary of Defense may adjust the amount 
     specified in subparagraph (C) for a fiscal year if the 
     Secretary determines that the amount is greater or less than 
     reasonably needed for purposes of the Fund for such fiscal 
     year. The Secretary may not adjust the amount for a fiscal 
     year to an amount that is more than $600,000,000 or less than 
     $400,000,000.''.

     SEC. 843. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE HIRING AND TRAINING OF THE 
                   ACQUISITION WORKFORCE.

       (a) Use of Funds From the Defense Acquisition Workforce 
     Development Fund to Pay Salaries of Personnel to Manage the 
     Fund.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection 1705(e) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``Subject to the provisions 
     of this subsection''; and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(B) Amounts in the Fund also may be used to pay salaries 
     of personnel at the Office of the Secretary of Defense, 
     military departments, and Defense Agencies to manage the 
     Fund.''; and
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (C);
       (ii) by striking the period and inserting ``; and'' at the 
     end of subparagraph (D); and
       (iii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(E) describing the amount from the Fund that may be used 
     to pay salaries of personnel at the Office of the Secretary 
     of Defense, military departments, and Defense Agencies to 
     manage the Fund and the circumstances under which such 
     amounts may be used for such purpose.''.
       (2) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     issue, and submit to the congressional defense committees, 
     the policy guidance required by subparagraph (E) of section 
     1705(e)(3) of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
     paragraph (1).
       (b) Comptroller General Review of Effectiveness of Hiring 
     and Retention Flexibilities for Acquisition Workforce 
     Personnel.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than June 30, 2019, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States

[[Page H8759]]

     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     on the effectiveness of hiring and retention flexibilities 
     for the acquisition workforce.
       (2) Elements.--The report under this subsection shall 
     include the following:
       (A) A determination of the extent to which the Department 
     of Defense experiences challenges with recruitment and 
     retention of the acquisition workforce, such as post-
     employment restrictions.
       (B) A description of the hiring and retention flexibilities 
     available to the Department to fill civilian acquisition 
     positions and the extent to which the Department has used the 
     flexibilities available to it to target critical or 
     understaffed career fields.
       (C) A determination of the extent to which the Department 
     has the necessary data and metrics on its use of hiring and 
     retention flexibilities for the civilian acquisition 
     workforce to strategically manage the use of such 
     flexibilities.
       (D) An identification of the factors that affect the use of 
     hiring and retention flexibilities for the civilian 
     acquisition workforce.
       (E) Recommendations for any necessary changes to the hiring 
     and retention flexibilities available to the Department to 
     fill civilian acquisition positions.
       (F) A description of the flexibilities available to the 
     Department to remove underperforming members of the 
     acquisition workforce and the extent to which any such 
     flexibilities are used.
       (c) Assessment and Report Required on Business-related 
     Training for the Acquisition Workforce.--
       (1) Assessment.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment shall conduct an assessment of 
     the following:
       (A) The effectiveness of industry certifications, other 
     industry training programs, including fellowships, and 
     training and education programs at educational institutions 
     outside of the Defense Acquisition University available to 
     defense acquisition workforce personnel.
       (B) Gaps in knowledge of industry operations, industry 
     motivation, and business acumen in the acquisition workforce.
       (2) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2018, the Under 
     Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
     the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
     containing the results of the assessment conducted under this 
     subsection.
       (3) Elements.--The assessment and report under paragraphs 
     (1) and (2) shall address the following:
       (A) Current sources of training and career development 
     opportunities, industry rotations, and other career 
     development opportunities related to knowledge of industry 
     operations, industry motivation, and business acumen for each 
     acquisition position, as designated under section 1721 of 
     title 10, United States Code.
       (B) Gaps in training, industry rotations, and other career 
     development opportunities related to knowledge of industry 
     operations, industry motivation, and business acumen for each 
     such acquisition position.
       (C) Plans to address those gaps for each such acquisition 
     position.
       (D) Consideration of the role industry-taught classes and 
     classes taught at educational institutions outside of the 
     Defense Acquisition University could play in addressing gaps.
       (d) Comptroller General Review of Acquisition Training for 
     Non-acquisition Workforce Personnel.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than June 30, 2019, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on acquisition-
     related training for personnel working on acquisitions but 
     not considered to be part of the acquisition workforce (as 
     defined in section 101(18) of title 10, United States Code) 
     (hereafter in this subsection referred to as ``non-
     acquisition workforce personnel'').
       (2) Elements.--The report shall address the following:
       (A) The extent to which non-acquisition workforce personnel 
     play a significant role in defining requirements, conducting 
     market research, participating in source selection and 
     contract negotiation efforts, and overseeing contract 
     performance.
       (B) The extent to which the Department is able to identify 
     and track non-acquisition workforce personnel performing the 
     roles identified in subparagraph (A).
       (C) The extent to which non-acquisition workforce personnel 
     are taking acquisition training.
       (D) The extent to which the Defense Acquisition Workforce 
     Development Fund has been used to provide acquisition 
     training to non-acquisition workforce personnel.
       (E) A description of sources of funding other than the Fund 
     that are available to and used by the Department to provide 
     non-acquisition workforce personnel with acquisition 
     training.
       (F) The extent to which additional acquisition training is 
     needed for non-acquisition workforce personnel, including the 
     types of training needed, the positions that need the 
     training, and any challenges to delivering necessary 
     additional training.

     SEC. 844. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATIONS TO ACQUISITION 
                   DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.

       (a) Extension.--Section 1762(g) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2023''.
       (b) Increase in Limit on Number of Participants.--Section 
     1762(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking ``the demonstration project under this section may 
     not exceed 120,000'' and inserting ``at any one time the 
     demonstration project under this section may not exceed 
     130,000''.
       (c) Implementation Strategy for Improvements in Acquisition 
     Demonstration Project.--
       (1) Strategy required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     develop an implementation strategy to address areas for 
     improvement in the demonstration project required by section 
     1762 of title 10, United States Code, as identified in the 
     second assessment of such demonstration project required by 
     section 1762(e) of such title.
       (2) Elements.--The strategy shall include the following 
     elements:
       (A) Actions that have been or will be taken to assess 
     whether the flexibility to set starting salaries at different 
     levels is being used appropriately by supervisors and 
     managers to compete effectively for highly skilled and 
     motivated employees.
       (B) Actions that have been or will be taken to assess 
     reasons for any disparities in career outcomes across race 
     and gender for employees in the demonstration project.
       (C) Actions that have been or will be taken to strengthen 
     the link between employee contribution and compensation for 
     employees in the demonstration project.
       (D) Actions that have been or will be taken to enhance the 
     transparency of the pay system for employees in the 
     demonstration project.
       (E) A time frame and individual responsible for each action 
     identified under subparagraphs (A) through (D).
       (3) Briefing required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services 
     of the Senate and House of Representatives and the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives on the implementation strategy required by 
     paragraph (1).

          Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

     SEC. 846. PROCUREMENT THROUGH COMMERCIAL E-COMMERCE PORTALS.

       (a) Establishment of Program.--The Administrator shall 
     establish a program to procure commercial products through 
     commercial e-commerce portals for purposes of enhancing 
     competition, expediting procurement, enabling market 
     research, and ensuring reasonable pricing of commercial 
     products. The Administrator shall carry out the program in 
     accordance with this section, through multiple contracts with 
     multiple commercial e-commerce portal providers, and shall 
     design the program to be implemented in phases with the 
     objective of enabling Government-wide use of such portals.
       (b) Use of Program.--The head of a department or agency may 
     procure, as appropriate, commercial products for the 
     department or agency using the program established pursuant 
     to subsection (a).
       (c) Implementation and Reporting Requirements.--The 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
     consultation with the Administrator and the heads of other 
     relevant departments and agencies, shall carry out the 
     implementation phases set forth in, and submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees the items of information 
     required by, the following paragraphs:
       (1) Phase i: implementation plan.--Not later than 90 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, an 
     implementation plan and schedule for carrying out the program 
     established pursuant to subsection (a), including a 
     discussion and recommendations regarding whether any changes 
     to, or exemptions from, laws that set forth policies, 
     procedures, requirements, or restrictions for the procurement 
     of property or services by the Federal Government are 
     necessary for effective implementation of this section.
       (2) Phase ii: market analysis and consultation.--Not later 
     than one year after the date of the submission of the 
     implementation plan and schedule required under paragraph 
     (1), recommendations for any changes to, or exemptions from, 
     laws necessary for effective implementation of this section, 
     and information on the results of the following actions:
       (A) Market analysis and initial communications with 
     potential commercial e-commerce portal providers on technical 
     considerations of how the portals function (including the use 
     of standard terms and conditions of the portals by the 
     Government), the degree of customization that can occur 
     without creating a Government-unique portal, the measures 
     necessary to address the considerations for supplier and 
     product screening specified in subsection (e), security of 
     data, considerations pertaining to nontraditional Government 
     contractors, and potential fees, if any, to be charged by the 
     Administrator, the portal provider, or the suppliers for 
     participation in the program established pursuant to 
     subsection (a).
       (B) Consultation with affected departments and agencies 
     about their unique procurement needs, such as supply chain 
     risks for health care products, information technology, 
     software, or any other category determined necessary by the 
     Administrator.
       (C) An assessment of the products or product categories 
     that are suitable for purchase on the commercial e-commerce 
     portals.
       (D) An assessment of the precautions necessary to safeguard 
     any information pertaining to the Federal Government, 
     especially precautions necessary to protect against national 
     security or cybersecurity threats.
       (E) A review of standard terms and conditions of commercial 
     e-commerce portals in the context of Government requirements.
       (F) An assessment of the impact on existing programs, 
     including schedules, set-asides for small business concerns, 
     and other preference programs.
       (3) Phase iii: program implementation guidance.--Not later 
     than two years after the date of the submission of the 
     implementation plan and schedule required under paragraph 
     (1), guidance to implement and govern the use of the program 
     established pursuant to subsection (a), including protocols 
     for oversight of

[[Page H8760]]

     procurement through the program, and compliance with laws 
     pertaining to supplier and product screening requirements, 
     data security, and data analytics.
       (4) Additional implementation phases.--A description of 
     additional implementation phases, as determined by the 
     Administrator, that includes a selection of agencies to 
     participate in any such additional implementation phase 
     (which may include the award of contracts to multiple 
     commercial e-commerce portal providers).
       (d) Considerations for Commercial e-commerce Portals.--The 
     Administrator shall consider commercial e-commerce portals 
     for use under the program established pursuant to subsection 
     (a) that are widely used in the private sector and have or 
     can be configured to have features that facilitate the 
     execution of program objectives, including features related 
     to supplier and product selection that are frequently 
     updated, an assortment of product and supplier reviews, 
     invoicing payment, and customer service.
       (e) Information on Suppliers, Products, and Purchases.--
       (1) Supplier participation and product screening.--The 
     Administrator shall provide or ensure electronic availability 
     to a commercial e-commerce portal provider awarded a contract 
     pursuant to subsection (a) on a periodic basis information 
     necessary to ensure compliance with laws pertaining to 
     supplier and product screening as identified during 
     implementation phase III, as described in subsection (c)(3).
       (2) Provision of order information.--The Administrator 
     shall require each commercial e-commerce portal provider 
     awarded a contract pursuant to subsection (a) to provide 
     order information as determined by the Administrator during 
     implementation phase II, as described in subsection (c)(2).
       (f) Relationship to Other Provisions of Law.--
       (1) All laws, including laws that set forth policies, 
     procedures, requirements, or restrictions for the procurement 
     of property or services by the Federal Government, apply to 
     the program established pursuant to subsection (a) unless 
     otherwise provided in this section.
       (2) A procurement of a product made through a commercial e-
     commerce portal under the program established pursuant to 
     subsection (a) is deemed to be an award of a prime contract 
     for purposes of the goals established under section 15(g) of 
     the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)), if the purchase is 
     from a supplier that is a small business concern.
       (3) Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting 
     the authority of a department or agency to restrict 
     competition to small business concerns.
       (4) Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting 
     the applicability of section 1341 of title 31, United States 
     Code (popularly referred to as the Anti-Deficiency Act).
       (g) Use of Commercial Practices and Standard Terms and 
     Conditions.--A procurement of a product through a commercial 
     e-commerce portal used under the program established pursuant 
     to subsection (a) shall be made, to the maximum extent 
     practicable, under the standard terms and conditions of the 
     portal relating to purchasing on the portal.
       (h) Disclosure, Protection, and Use of Information.--In any 
     contract awarded to a commercial e-commerce portal provider 
     pursuant to subsection (a), the Administrator shall require 
     that the provider--
       (1) agree not to sell or otherwise make available to any 
     third party any information pertaining to a product ordered 
     by the Federal Government through the commercial e-commerce 
     portal in a manner that identifies the Federal Government, or 
     any of its departments or agencies, as the purchaser, except 
     if the information is needed to process or deliver an order 
     or the Administrator provides written consent;
       (2) agree to take the necessary precautions to safeguard 
     any information pertaining to the Federal Government, 
     especially precautions necessary to protect against national 
     security or cybersecurity threats; and
       (3) agree not to use, for pricing, marketing, competitive, 
     or other purposes, any information related to a product from 
     a third-party supplier featured on the commercial e-commerce 
     portal or the transaction of such a product, except as 
     necessary to comply with the requirements of the program 
     established pursuant to subsection (a).
       (i) Simplified Acquisition Threshold.--A procurement 
     through a commercial e-commerce portal used under the program 
     established pursuant to subsection (a) shall not exceed the 
     simplified acquisition threshold in section 134 of title 41, 
     United States Code.
       (j) Comptroller General Assessments.--
       (1) Assessment of implementation plan.--Not later than 90 
     days after the Director of the Office of Management and 
     Budget submits the implementation plan described in 
     subsection (c)(1) to the appropriate congressional 
     committees, the Comptroller General of the United States 
     shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an 
     assessment of the plan, including any other matters the 
     Comptroller General considers relevant to the plan.
       (2) Assessment of program implementation.--Not later than 
     three years after the first contract with a commercial e-
     commerce portal provider is awarded pursuant to subsection 
     (a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     on the challenges and benefits the General Services 
     Administration and participating departments and agencies 
     observe regarding implementation of the program established 
     pursuant to subsection (a). The report shall include the 
     following elements:
       (A) A description of the acquisition of the commercial e-
     commerce portals (including the extent to which the portals 
     had to be configured or otherwise modified to meet the needs 
     of the program) costs, and the implementation schedule.
       (B) A description of participation by suppliers, with 
     particular attention to those described under subsection (e), 
     that have registered or that have sold goods with at least 
     one commercial e-commerce portal provider, including numbers, 
     categories, and trends.
       (C) The effect, if any, of the program on the ability of 
     agencies to meet goals established for suppliers and products 
     described under subsection (e), including goals established 
     under section 15(g) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     644(g)).
       (D) A discussion of the limitations, if any, to 
     participation by suppliers in the program.
       (E) Any other matters the Comptroller General considers 
     relevant to report.
       (k) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
     Administrator of General Services.
       (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
       (A) The Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     House of Representatives.
       (B) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform of the House of Representatives.
       (C) The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of 
     the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (3) Commercial e-commerce portal.--The term ``commercial e-
     commerce portal'' means a commercial solution providing for 
     the purchase of commercial products aggregated, distributed, 
     sold, or manufactured via an online portal. The term does not 
     include an online portal managed by the Government for, or 
     predominantly for use by, Government agencies.
       (4) Commercial product.--The term ``commercial product'' 
     means a commercially available off-the-shelf item, as defined 
     in section 104 of title 41, United States Code, except the 
     term does not include services.
       (5) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
     concern'' has the meaning given such term under section 3 of 
     the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).

     SEC. 847. REVISION TO DEFINITION OF COMMERCIAL ITEM.

       (a) In General.--Section 103(8) of title 41, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting before the period at the end 
     the following: ``or to multiple foreign governments''.
       (b) Effect on Section 2464 of Title 10.--Nothing in the 
     amendment made by subsection (a) shall affect the meaning of 
     the term ``commercial item'' for purposes of subsection 
     (a)(5) of section 2464 of title 10, United States Code, or 
     any requirement under subsection (a)(3) or subsection (c) of 
     such section.

     SEC. 848. COMMERCIAL ITEM DETERMINATIONS.

       Section 2380 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting ``(a) In 
     General.--The Secretary''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Items Previously Acquired Using Commercial Item 
     Acquisition Procedures.--
       ``(1) Determinations.--A contract for an item acquired 
     using commercial item acquisition procedures under part 12 of 
     the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall serve as a prior 
     commercial item determination with respect to such item for 
     purposes of this chapter unless the senior procurement 
     executive of the military department or the Department of 
     Defense as designated for purposes of section 1702(c) of 
     title 41 determines in writing that it is no longer 
     appropriate to acquire the item using commercial item 
     acquisition procedures.
       ``(2) Limitation.--(A) Except as provided under 
     subparagraph (B), funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available to the Department of Defense may not be used for 
     the procurement under part 15 of the Federal Acquisition 
     Regulation of an item that was previously acquired under a 
     contract using commercial item acquisition procedures under 
     part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
       ``(B) The limitation under subparagraph (A) does not apply 
     to the procurement of an item that was previously acquired 
     using commercial item acquisition procedures under part 12 of 
     the Federal Acquisition Regulation following--
       ``(i) a written determination by the head of contracting 
     activity pursuant to section 2306a(b)(4)(B) of this title 
     that the use of such procedures was improper; or
       ``(ii) a written determination by the senior procurement 
     executive of the military department or the Department of 
     Defense as designated for purposes of section 1702(c) of 
     title 41 that it is no longer appropriate to acquire the item 
     using such procedures.''.

     SEC. 849. REVIEW OF REGULATIONS ON COMMERCIAL ITEMS.

       (a) Review of Determinations Not to Exempt Department of 
     Defense Contracts for Commercial Items and Commercially 
     Available Off-the-shelf Items From Certain Laws and 
     Regulations.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
       (1) review each determination of the Federal Acquisition 
     Regulatory Council pursuant to section 1906(b)(2), section 
     1906(c)(3), or section 1907(a)(2) of title 41, United States 
     Code, not to exempt contracts and subcontracts described in 
     subsection (a) of section 2375 of title 10, United States 
     Code, from laws such contracts and subcontracts would 
     otherwise be exempt from under section 1906(d) of title 41, 
     United States Code; and
       (2) propose revisions to the Department of Defense 
     Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to provide 
     an exemption from each

[[Page H8761]]

     law subject to such determination unless the Secretary 
     determines there is a specific reason not to provide the 
     exemption.
       (b) Review of Certain Contract Clause Requirements 
     Applicable to Commercial Item Contracts.--Not later than one 
     year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall--
       (1) review the Department of Defense Supplement to the 
     Federal Acquisition Regulation to assess all regulations that 
     require a specific contract clause for a contract using 
     commercial item acquisition procedures under part 12 of the 
     Federal Acquisition Regulation, except for regulations 
     required by law or Executive order; and
       (2) propose revisions to the Department of Defense 
     Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to eliminate 
     regulations reviewed under paragraph (1) unless the Secretary 
     determines on a case-by-case basis that there is a specific 
     reason not to eliminate the regulation.
       (c) Elimination of Certain Contract Clause Regulations 
     Applicable to Commercially Available Off-the-shelf Item 
     Subcontracts.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
       (1) review the Department of Defense Supplement to the 
     Federal Acquisition Regulation to assess all regulations that 
     require a prime contractor to include a specific contract 
     clause in a subcontract for commercially available off-the-
     shelf items unless the inclusion of such clause is required 
     by law or Executive order; and
       (2) propose revisions to the Department of Defense 
     Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to eliminate 
     regulations reviewed under paragraph (1) unless the Secretary 
     determines on a case-by-case basis that there is a specific 
     reason not to eliminate the regulation.

     SEC. 850. TRAINING IN COMMERCIAL ITEMS PROCUREMENT.

       (a) Training.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President of the Defense 
     Acquisition University shall establish a comprehensive 
     training program on part 12 of the Federal Acquisition 
     Regulation. The training shall cover, at a minimum, the 
     following topics:
       (1) The origin of part 12 and the congressional mandate to 
     prefer commercial procurements.
       (2) The definition of a commercial item, with a particular 
     focus on the ``of a type'' concept.
       (3) Price analysis and negotiations.
       (4) Market research and analysis.
       (5) Independent cost estimates.
       (6) Parametric estimating methods.
       (7) Value analysis.
       (8) Best practices in pricing from commercial sector 
     organizations, foreign government organizations, and other 
     Federal, State, and local public sectors organizations.
       (9) Other topics on commercial procurements necessary to 
     ensure a well-educated acquisition workforce.
       (b) Enrollments Goals.--The President of the Defense 
     Acquisition University shall set goals for student enrollment 
     for the comprehensive training program established under 
     subsection (a).
       (c) Supporting Activities.--The Secretary of Defense shall, 
     in support of the achievement of the goals of this section--
       (1) engage academic experts on research topics of interest 
     to improve commercial item identification and pricing 
     methodologies; and
       (2) facilitate exchange and interface opportunities between 
     government personnel to increase awareness of best practices 
     and challenges in commercial item identification and pricing.
       (d) Funding.--The Secretary of Defense shall use amounts 
     available in the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
     Development Fund established under section 1705 of title 10, 
     United States Code, to fund the comprehensive training 
     program established under subsection (a).

        Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Services Contracting

     SEC. 851. IMPROVEMENT OF PLANNING FOR ACQUISITION OF 
                   SERVICES.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Improvement of planning for acquisition of services.--
     Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     inserting after section 2328 the following new section:

     ``Sec. 2329. Procurement of services: data analysis and 
       requirements validation

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
     that--
       ``(1) appropriate and sufficiently detailed data are 
     collected and analyzed to support the validation of 
     requirements for services contracts and inform the planning, 
     programming, budgeting, and execution process of the 
     Department of Defense;
       ``(2) requirements for services contracts are evaluated 
     appropriately and in a timely manner to inform decisions 
     regarding the procurement of services; and
       ``(3) decisions regarding the procurement of services 
     consider available resources and total force management 
     policies and procedures.
       ``(b) Specification of Amounts Requested in Budget.--
     Effective October 1, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     annually submit to Congress information on services contracts 
     that clearly and separately identifies the amount requested 
     for each category of services to be procured for each Defense 
     Agency, Department of Defense Field Activity, command, or 
     military installation. Such information shall--
       ``(1) be submitted at or about the time of the budget 
     submission by the President under section 1105(a) of title 
     31;
       ``(2) cover the fiscal year covered by such budget 
     submission by the President;
       ``(3) be consistent with total amounts of estimated 
     expenditures and proposed appropriations necessary to support 
     the programs, projects, and activities of the Department of 
     Defense included in such budget submission by the President 
     for that fiscal year; and
       ``(4) be organized using a common enterprise data structure 
     developed under section 2222 of this title.
       ``(c) Data Analysis.--(1) Each Secretary of a military 
     department shall regularly analyze past spending patterns and 
     anticipated future requirements with respect to the 
     procurement of services within such military department.
       ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall regularly analyze 
     past spending patterns and anticipated future requirements 
     with respect to the procurement of services--
       ``(i) within each Defense Agency and Department of Defense 
     Field Activity; and
       ``(ii) across military departments, Defense Agencies, and 
     Department of Defense Field Activities.
       ``(B) The Secretaries of the military departments shall 
     make data on services contracts available to the Secretary of 
     Defense for purposes of conducting the analysis required 
     under subparagraph (A).
       ``(3) The analyses conducted under this subsection shall--
       ``(A) identify contracts for similar services that are 
     procured for three or more consecutive years at each Defense 
     Agency, Department of Defense Field Activity, command, or 
     military installation;
       ``(B) evaluate patterns in the procurement of services, to 
     the extent practicable, at each Defense Agency, Department of 
     Defense Field Activity, command, or military installation and 
     by category of services procured;
       ``(C) be used to validate requirements for services 
     contracts entered into after the date of the enactment of 
     this subsection; and
       ``(D) be used to inform decisions on the award of and 
     funding for such services contracts.
       ``(d) Requirements Evaluation.--Each Services Requirements 
     Review Board shall evaluate each requirement for a services 
     contract, taking into consideration total force management 
     policies and procedures, available resources, the analyses 
     conducted under subsection (c), and contracting efficacy and 
     efficiency. An evaluation of a services contract for 
     compliance with contracting policies and procedures may not 
     be considered to be an evaluation of a requirement for such 
     services contract.
       ``(e) Timely Planning to Avoid Bridge Contracts.--(1) 
     Effective October 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     ensure that a requirements owner shall, to the extent 
     practicable, plan appropriately before the date of need of a 
     service at a Defense Agency, Department of Defense Field 
     Activity, command, or military installation to avoid the use 
     of a bridge contract to provide for continuation of a service 
     to be performed through a services contract. Such planning 
     shall include allowing time for a requirement to be 
     validated, a services contract to be entered into, and 
     funding for the services contract to be secured.
       ``(2)(A) Upon the first use, due to inadequate planning (as 
     determined by the Secretary of Defense), of a bridge contract 
     to provide for continuation of a service to be performed 
     through a services contract, the requirements owner, along 
     with the contracting officer or a designee of the contracting 
     officer for the contract, shall--
       ``(i) for a services contract in an amount less than 
     $10,000,000, provide an update on the status of the bridge 
     contract (including the rationale for using the bridge 
     contract) to the commander or the senior civilian official of 
     the Defense Agency concerned, Department of Defense Field 
     Activity concerned, command concerned, or military 
     installation concerned, as applicable; or
       ``(ii) for a services contract in an amount equal to or 
     greater than $10,000,000, provide an update on the status of 
     the bridge contract (including the rationale for using the 
     bridge contract) to the service acquisition executive for the 
     military department concerned, the head of the Defense Agency 
     concerned, the combatant commander concerned, or the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, as 
     applicable.
       ``(B) Upon the second use, due to inadequate planning (as 
     determined by the Secretary of Defense), of a bridge contract 
     to provide for continuation of a service to be performed 
     through a services contract in an amount less than 
     $10,000,000, the commander or senior civilian official 
     referred to in subparagraph (A)(i) shall provide notification 
     of such second use to the Vice Chief of Staff of the armed 
     force concerned and the service acquisition executive of the 
     military department concerned, the head of the Defense Agency 
     concerned, the combatant commander concerned, or the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, as 
     applicable.
       ``(f) Exception.--Except with respect to the analyses 
     required under subsection (c), this section shall not apply 
     to--
       ``(1) services contracts in support of contingency 
     operations, humanitarian assistance, or disaster relief;
       ``(2) services contracts in support of a national security 
     emergency declared with respect to a named operation; or
       ``(3) services contracts entered into pursuant to an 
     international agreement.
       ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `bridge contact' means--
       ``(A) an extension to an existing contract beyond the 
     period of performance to avoid a lapse in service caused by a 
     delay in awarding a subsequent contract; or
       ``(B) a new short-term contract awarded on a sole-source 
     basis to avoid a lapse in service caused by a delay in 
     awarding a subsequent contract.
       ``(2) The term `requirements owner' means a member of the 
     armed forces (other than the

[[Page H8762]]

     Coast Guard) or a civilian employee of the Department of 
     Defense responsible for a requirement for a service to be 
     performed through a services contract.
       ``(3) The term `Services Requirements Review Board' has the 
     meaning given in Department of Defense Instruction 5000.74, 
     titled `Defense Acquisition of Services' and dated January 5, 
     2016, or a successor instruction.''
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2328 the following new item:

``2329. Procurement of services: data analysis and requirements 
              validation.''.

     SEC. 852. STANDARD GUIDELINES FOR EVALUATION OF REQUIREMENTS 
                   FOR SERVICES CONTRACTS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall encourage 
     the use of standard guidelines within the Department of 
     Defense for the evaluation of requirements for services 
     contracts. Such guidelines shall be available to the Services 
     Requirements Review Boards (established under Department of 
     Defense Instruction 5000.74, titled ``Defense Acquisition of 
     Services'' and dated January 5, 2016, or a successor 
     instruction) within each Defense Agency, each Department of 
     Defense Field Activity, and each military department for the 
     purpose of standardizing the requirements evaluation required 
     under section 2329 of title 10, United States Code, as added 
     by this Act.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the terms ``Defense Agency'', ``Department of Defense 
     Field Activity'', and ``military department'' have the 
     meanings given those terms in section 101 of title 10, United 
     States Code; and
       (2) the term ``total force management policies and 
     procedures'' means the policies and procedures established 
     under section 129a of such title.

     SEC. 853. REPORT ON OUTCOME-BASED SERVICES CONTRACTS.

       Not later than April 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and House of Representatives a report on the merits of 
     using outcome-based services contracts within the Department 
     of Defense. Such report shall include a comparison of the use 
     of outcome-based services contracts by the Department of 
     Defense compared to input-based services contracts, the 
     limitations of outcome-based services contracts, and an 
     analysis of the cost implications of both approaches.

     SEC. 854. PILOT PROGRAM FOR LONGER TERM MULTIYEAR SERVICE 
                   CONTRACTS.

       (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry 
     out a pilot program under which the Secretary may use the 
     authority under subsection (a) of section 2306c of title 10, 
     United States Code, to enter into up to five contracts for 
     periods of not more than 10 years for services described in 
     subsection (b) of such section. Each contract entered into 
     pursuant to this subsection may be extended for up to five 
     additional one-year terms.
       (b) Study.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     enter into an agreement with an independent organization with 
     relevant expertise to study best practices and lessons 
     learned from using services contracts for periods longer than 
     five years by commercial companies, foreign governments, and 
     State governments, as well as service contracts for periods 
     longer than five years used by the Federal Government, such 
     as energy savings performance contracts (as defined in 
     section to section 804(3) of the National Energy Conservation 
     Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8287c(3)).
       (2) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report on the study 
     conducted under paragraph (1).
       (c) Comptroller General Report.--Not later than five years 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
     General of the United States shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the pilot 
     program carried out under this section.

  Subtitle G--Provisions Relating to Other Transaction Authority and 
                              Prototyping

     SEC. 861. CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT OF 
                   INITIAL OR ADDITIONAL PROTOTYPE UNITS.

       (a) Permanent Authority.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2302d the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2302e. Contract authority for advanced development of 
       initial or additional prototype units

       ``(a) Authority.--A contract initially awarded from the 
     competitive selection of a proposal resulting from a general 
     solicitation referred to in section 2302(2)(B) of this title 
     may contain a contract line item or contract option for--
       ``(1) the provision of advanced component development, 
     prototype, or initial production of technology developed 
     under the contract; or
       ``(2) the delivery of initial or additional items if the 
     item or a prototype thereof is created as the result of work 
     performed under the contract.
       ``(b) Limitations.--
       ``(1) Minimal amount.--A contract line item or contract 
     option described in subsection (a)(2) shall require the 
     delivery of the minimal amount of initial or additional items 
     to allow for the timely competitive solicitation and award of 
     a follow-on development or production contract for those 
     items.
       ``(2) Term.--A contract line item or contract option 
     described in subsection (a) shall be for a term of not more 
     than 2 years.
       ``(3) Dollar value of work.--The dollar value of the work 
     to be performed pursuant to a contract line item or contract 
     option described in subsection (a) may not exceed 
     $100,000,000, in fiscal year 2017 constant dollars.
       ``(4) Applicability.--The authority provided in subsection 
     (a) applies only to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
     of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of 
     the Air Force.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2302d the following new item:

``2302e. Contract authority for advanced development of initial or 
              additional prototype units.''.
       (b) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--Section 819 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
     (Public Law 111-84; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is hereby repealed.

     SEC. 862. METHODS FOR ENTERING INTO RESEARCH AGREEMENTS.

       Section 2358(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or'';
       (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(5) by transactions (other than contracts, cooperative 
     agreements, and grants) entered into pursuant to section 2371 
     or 2371b of this title; or
       ``(6) by purchases through procurement for experimental 
     purposes pursuant to section 2373 of this title.''.

     SEC. 863. EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR TRANSACTIONS OTHER THAN 
                   CONTRACTS AND GRANTS.

       Section 2371 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(g) Education and Training.--The Secretary of Defense 
     shall--
       ``(1) ensure that management, technical, and contracting 
     personnel of the Department of Defense involved in the award 
     or administration of transactions under this section or other 
     innovative forms of contracting are afforded opportunities 
     for adequate education and training; and
       ``(2) establish minimum levels and requirements for 
     continuous and experiential learning for such personnel, 
     including levels and requirements for acquisition 
     certification programs.''.

     SEC. 864. OTHER TRANSACTION AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PROTOTYPE 
                   PROJECTS.

       (a) Expanded Authority for Prototype Projects.--Subsection 
     (a)(2) of section 2371b of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``for a prototype project'' each place such 
     term appears and inserting ``for a transaction (for a 
     prototype project)'';
       (2) in subparagraph (A)--
       (A) by striking ``$50,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$100,000,000''; and
       (B) by striking ``$250,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$500,000,000''; and
       (3) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``$250,000,000'' and 
     inserting ``$500,000,000''.
       (b) Clarification of Inclusion of Small Businesses 
     Participating in SBIR or STTR.--Subparagraph (B) of section 
     2371b(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     inserting ``(including small businesses participating in a 
     program described under section 9 of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 638))'' after ``small businesses''.
       (c) Modification of Cost Sharing Requirement for Use of 
     Other Transaction Authority.--Subparagraph (C) of such 
     section is amended by striking ``provided by parties to the 
     transaction'' and inserting ``provided by sources other 
     than''.
       (d) Use of Other Transaction Authority for Ongoing 
     Prototype Projects.--Subsection (f)(1) of section 2371b of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following: ``A transaction includes all individual 
     prototype subprojects awarded under the transaction to a 
     consortium of United States industry and academic 
     institutions.''.

     SEC. 865. AMENDMENT TO NONTRADITIONAL AND SMALL CONTRACTOR 
                   INNOVATION PROTOTYPING PROGRAM.

       Section 884(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2318; 10 
     U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new 
     paragraph (9):
       ``(9) Unmanned ground logistics and unmanned air logistics 
     capabilities enhancement.''.

     SEC. 866. MIDDLE TIER OF ACQUISITION FOR RAPID PROTOTYPE AND 
                   RAPID FIELDING.

       Section 804(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) 
     is amended--
       (1) by striking subparagraph (C); and
       (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as 
     subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively.

     SEC. 867. PREFERENCE FOR USE OF OTHER TRANSACTIONS AND 
                   EXPERIMENTAL AUTHORITY.

       In the execution of science and technology and prototyping 
     programs, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
     preference, to be applied in circumstances determined 
     appropriate by the Secretary, for using transactions other 
     than contracts, cooperative agreements, and grants entered 
     into pursuant to sections 2371 and 2371b of title 10, United 
     States Code, and authority for procurement for experimental 
     purposes pursuant to section 2373 of title 10, United States 
     Code.

[[Page H8763]]

  


     SEC. 868. PROTOTYPE PROJECTS TO DIGITIZE DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
                   REGULATIONS, POLICIES, AND GUIDANCE, AND 
                   EMPOWER USER TAILORING OF ACQUISITION PROCESS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
     the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, 
     shall conduct development efforts to develop prototypes to 
     digitize defense acquisition regulations, policies, and 
     guidance and to develop a digital decision support tool that 
     facilitates the ability of users to tailor programs in 
     accordance with existing laws, regulations, and guidance.
       (b) Elements.--Under the prototype projects, the Secretary 
     shall--
       (1) convert existing acquisition policies, guides, memos, 
     templates, and reports to an online, interactive digital 
     format to create a dynamic, integrated, and authoritative 
     knowledge environment for purposes of assisting program 
     managers and the acquisition workforce of the Department of 
     Defense to navigate the complex lifecycle for each major type 
     of acquisition program or activity of the Department;
       (2) as part of this digital environment, create a digital 
     decision support capability that uses decision trees and 
     tailored acquisition models to assist users to develop 
     strategies and facilitate coordination and approvals; and
       (3) as part of this environment, establish a foundational 
     data layer to enable advanced data analytics on the 
     acquisition enterprise of the Department, to include business 
     process reengineering to improve productivity.
       (c) Use of Prototypes in Acquisition Activities.--The Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall 
     encourage the use of these prototypes to model, develop, and 
     test any procedures, policies, instructions, or other forms 
     of direction and guidance that may be required to support 
     acquisition training, practices, and policies of the 
     Department of Defense.
       (d) Funding.--The Secretary may use the authority under 
     section 1705(e)(4)(B) of title 10, United States Code, to 
     develop acquisition support prototypes and tools under this 
     program.

        Subtitle H--Provisions Relating to Software Acquisition

     SEC. 871. NONCOMMERCIAL COMPUTER SOFTWARE ACQUISITION 
                   CONSIDERATIONS.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Requirement.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, as amended by section 802, is further amended by 
     inserting after section 2322 the following new section:

     ``Sec. 2322a. Requirement for consideration of certain 
       matters during acquisition of noncommercial computer 
       software

       ``(a) Consideration Required.--As part of any negotiation 
     for the acquisition of noncommercial computer software, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall ensure that such negotiations 
     consider, to the maximum extent practicable, acquisition, at 
     the appropriate time in the life cycle of the noncommercial 
     computer software, of all software and related materials 
     necessary--
       ``(1) to reproduce, build, or recompile the software from 
     original source code and required libraries;
       ``(2) to conduct required computer software testing; and
       ``(3) to deploy working computer software system binary 
     files on relevant system hardware.
       ``(b) Delivery of Software and Related Materials.--Any 
     noncommercial computer software or related materials required 
     to be delivered as a result of considerations in subsection 
     (a) shall, to the extent appropriate as determined by the 
     Secretary--
       ``(1) include computer software delivered in a useable, 
     digital format;
       ``(2) not rely on external or additional software code or 
     data, unless such software code or data is included in the 
     items to be delivered; and
       ``(3) in the case of negotiated terms that do not allow for 
     the inclusion of dependent software code or data, sufficient 
     documentation to support maintenance and understanding of 
     interfaces and software revision history.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding after the item 
     relating to section 2322, as added by section 802, the 
     following new item:

``2322a. Requirement for consideration of certain matters during 
              acquisition of noncommercial computer software.''.
       (b) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     issue updated guidance to implement section 2322a of title 
     10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).

     SEC. 872. DEFENSE INNOVATION BOARD ANALYSIS OF SOFTWARE 
                   ACQUISITION REGULATIONS.

       (a) Study.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     direct the Defense Innovation Board to undertake a study on 
     streamlining software development and acquisition 
     regulations.
       (2) Member participation.--The Chairman of the Defense 
     Innovation Board shall select appropriate members from the 
     membership of the Board to participate in the study, and may 
     recommend additional temporary members or contracted support 
     personnel to the Secretary of Defense for the purposes of the 
     study. In considering additional appointments to the study, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that members have 
     significant technical, legislative, or regulatory expertise 
     and reflect diverse experiences in the public and private 
     sector.
       (3) Scope.--The study conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
     shall--
       (A) review the acquisition regulations applicable to, and 
     organizational structures within, the Department of Defense 
     with a view toward streamlining and improving the efficiency 
     and effectiveness of software acquisition in order to 
     maintain defense technology advantage;
       (B) review ongoing software development and acquisition 
     programs, including a cross section of programs that offer a 
     variety of application types, functional communities, and 
     scale, in order to identify case studies of best and worst 
     practices currently in use within the Department of Defense;
       (C) produce specific and detailed recommendations for any 
     legislation, including the amendment or repeal of 
     regulations, as well as non-legislative approaches, that the 
     members of the Board conducting the study determine necessary 
     to--
       (i) streamline development and procurement of software;
       (ii) adopt or adapt best practices from the private sector 
     applicable to Government use;
       (iii) promote rapid adoption of new technology;
       (iv) improve the talent management of the software 
     acquisition workforce, including by providing incentives for 
     the recruitment and retention of such workforce within the 
     Department of Defense;
       (v) ensure continuing financial and ethical integrity in 
     procurement; and
       (vi) protect the best interests of the Department of 
     Defense; and
       (D) produce such additional recommendations for legislation 
     as such members consider appropriate.
       (4) Access to information.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide the Defense Innovation Board with timely access to 
     appropriate information, data, resources, and analysis so 
     that the Board may conduct a thorough and independent 
     analysis as required under this subsection.
       (b) Reports.--
       (1) Interim reports.--Not later than 150 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit a report to or brief the congressional defense 
     committees on the interim findings of the study conducted 
     pursuant to subsection (a). The Defense Innovation Board 
     shall provide regular updates to the Secretary of Defense and 
     the congressional defense committees for purposes of 
     providing the interim report.
       (2) Final report.--Not later than one year after the 
     Secretary of Defense directs the Defense Advisory Board to 
     conduct the study, the Board shall transmit a final report of 
     the study to the Secretary. Not later than 30 days after 
     receiving the final report, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     transmit the final report, together with such comments as the 
     Secretary determines appropriate, to the congressional 
     defense committees.

     SEC. 873. PILOT PROGRAM TO USE AGILE OR ITERATIVE DEVELOPMENT 
                   METHODS TO TAILOR MAJOR SOFTWARE-INTENSIVE 
                   WARFIGHTING SYSTEMS AND DEFENSE BUSINESS 
                   SYSTEMS.

       (a) Pilot Program.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments 
     and the chiefs of the armed forces, shall establish a pilot 
     program to tailor and simplify software development 
     requirements and methods for major software-intensive 
     warfighting systems and defense business systems.
       (2) Implementation plan for pilot program.--Not later than 
     120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of 
     the military departments and the chiefs of the armed forces, 
     shall develop a plan for implementing the pilot program 
     required under this subsection, including guidance for 
     implementing the program and for selecting systems for 
     participation in the program.
       (3) Selection of systems for pilot program.--
       (A) The implementation plan shall require that systems be 
     selected as follows:
       (i) For major software-intensive warfighting systems, one 
     system per armed force and one defense-wide system, including 
     at least one major defense acquisition program or major 
     automated information system.
       (ii) For defense business systems, not fewer than two 
     systems and not greater than eight systems.
       (B) In selecting systems for participation, the Secretary 
     shall prioritize systems as follows:
       (i) For major software-intensive warfighting systems, 
     systems that--

       (I) have identified software development as a high risk;
       (II) have experienced cost growth and schedule delay; and
       (III) did not deliver any operational capability within the 
     prior calendar year.

       (ii) For defense business systems, systems that--

       (I) have experienced cost growth and schedule delay;
       (II) did not deliver any operational capability within the 
     prior calendar year; and
       (III) are underperforming other systems within a defense 
     business system portfolio with similar user requirements.

       (b) Realignment Plans.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after selecting a 
     system for the pilot program under subsection (a)(3), the 
     Secretary shall develop a plan for realigning the system by 
     breaking down the system into smaller increments using agile 
     or iterative development methods. The realignment plan shall 
     include a revised cost estimate that is lower than the cost 
     estimate for the system that was current as of the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.
       (2) Realignment execution.--Each increment for a realigned 
     system shall--

[[Page H8764]]

       (A) be designed to deliver a meaningfully useful capability 
     within the first 180 days following realignment;
       (B) be designed to deliver subsequent meaningfully useful 
     capabilities in time periods of less than 180 days;
       (C) incorporate multidisciplinary teams focused on software 
     production that prioritize user needs and control of total 
     cost of ownership;
       (D) be staffed with highly qualified technically trained 
     staff and personnel with management and business process 
     expertise in leadership positions to support requirements 
     modification, acquisition strategy, and program 
     decisionmaking;
       (E) ensure that the acquisition strategy for the realigned 
     system is broad enough to allow for proposals of a service, 
     system, modified business practice, configuration of 
     personnel, or combination thereof for implementing the 
     strategy;
       (F) include periodic engagement with the user community, as 
     well as representation by the user community in program 
     management and software production activity;
       (G) ensure that the acquisition strategy for the realigned 
     system favors outcomes-based requirements definition and 
     capability as a service, including the establishment of 
     technical evaluation criteria as outcomes to be used to 
     negotiate service-level agreements with vendors; and
       (H) consider options for termination of the relationship 
     with any vendor unable or unwilling to offer terms that meet 
     the requirements of this section.
       (c) Removal of Systems.--The Secretary may remove a system 
     selected for the pilot program under subsection (a)(3) only 
     after the Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a written 
     determination that indicates that the selected system has 
     been unsuccessful in reducing cost or schedule growth, or is 
     not meeting the overall needs of the pilot program.
       (d) Education and Training in Agile or Iterative 
     Development Methods.--
       (1) Training requirement.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
     any personnel from the relevant organizations in each of the 
     military departments and Defense Agencies participating in 
     the pilot program, including organizations responsible for 
     engineering, budgeting, contracting, test and evaluation, 
     requirements validation, and certification and accreditation, 
     receive targeted training in agile or iterative development 
     methods, including the interim course required by section 891 
     of this Act.
       (2) Support.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary shall ensure that personnel 
     participating in the program provide feedback to inform the 
     development of education and training curricula as required 
     by section 891.
       (e) Sunset.--The pilot program required under subsection 
     (a) shall terminate on September 30, 2023. Any system 
     selected under subsection (a)(3) for the pilot program shall 
     continue after that date through the execution of its 
     realignment plan.
       (f) Agile or Iterative Development Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``agile or iterative development'', with 
     respect to software--
       (1) means acquisition pursuant to a method for delivering 
     multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for 
     operational use, evaluation, and feedback not exclusively 
     linked to any single, proprietary method or process; and
       (2) involves--
       (A) the incremental development and fielding of 
     capabilities, commonly called ``spirals'', ``spins'', or 
     ``sprints'', which can be measured in a few weeks or months; 
     and
       (B) continuous participation and collaboration by users, 
     testers, and requirements authorities.

     SEC. 874. SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROGRAM USING AGILE BEST 
                   PRACTICES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     identify no fewer than four and up to eight software 
     development activities within the Department of Defense or 
     military departments to be developed in a pilot program using 
     agile acquisition methods.
       (b) Streamlined Processes.--Software development activities 
     identified under subsection (a) shall be selected for the 
     pilot program and developed without incorporation of the 
     following contract or transaction requirements:
       (1) Earned value management (EVM) or EVM-like reporting.
       (2) Development of integrated master schedule.
       (3) Development of integrated master plan.
       (4) Development of technical requirement document.
       (5) Development of systems requirement documents.
       (6) Use of information technology infrastructure library 
     agreements.
       (7) Use of software development life cycle (methodology).
       (c) Roles and Responsibilities.--
       (1) In general.--Selected activities shall include the 
     following roles and responsibilities:
       (A) A program manager that is authorized to make all 
     programmatic decisions within the overarching activity 
     objectives, including resources, funding, personnel, and 
     contract or transaction termination recommendations.
       (B) A product owner that reports directly to the program 
     manager and is responsible for the overall design of the 
     product, prioritization of roadmap elements and 
     interpretation of their acceptance criteria, and 
     prioritization of the list of all features desired in the 
     product.
       (C) An engineering lead that reports directly to the 
     program manager and is responsible for the implementation and 
     operation of the software.
       (D) A design lead that reports directly to the program 
     manager and is responsible for identifying, communicating, 
     and visualizing user needs through a human-centered design 
     process.
       (2) Qualifications.--The Secretary shall establish 
     qualifications for personnel filling the positions described 
     in paragraph (1) prior to their selection. The qualifications 
     may not include a positive education requirement and must be 
     based on technical expertise or experience in delivery of 
     software products, including agile concepts.
       (3) Coordination plan for testing and certification 
     organizations.--The program manager shall ensure the 
     availability of resources for test and certification 
     organizations support of iterative development processes.
       (d) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan 
     for each selected activity under the pilot program. The plan 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) Definition of a product vision, identifying a succinct, 
     clearly defined need the software will address.
       (2) Definition of a product road map, outlining a 
     noncontractual plan that identifies short-term and long-term 
     product goals and specific technology solutions to help meet 
     those goals and adjusts to mission and user needs at the 
     product owner's discretion.
       (3) The use of a broad agency announcement, other 
     transaction authority, or other rapid merit-based 
     solicitation procedure.
       (4) Identification of, and continuous engagement with, end 
     users.
       (5) Frequent and iterative end user validation of features 
     and usability consistent with the principles outlined in the 
     Digital Services Playbook of the U.S. Digital Service.
       (6) Use of commercial best practices for advanced computing 
     systems, including, where applicable--
       (A) Automated testing, integration, and deployment;
       (B) compliance with applicable commercial accessibility 
     standards;
       (C) capability to support modern versions of multiple, 
     common web browsers;
       (D) capability to be viewable across commonly used end user 
     devices, including mobile devices; and
       (E) built-in application monitoring.
       (e) Program Schedule.--The Secretary shall ensure that each 
     selected activity includes--
       (1) award processes that take no longer than three months 
     after a requirement is identified;
       (2) planned frequent and iterative end user validation of 
     implemented features and their usability;
       (3) delivery of a functional prototype or minimally viable 
     product in three months or less from award; and
       (4) follow-on delivery of iterative development cycles no 
     longer than four weeks apart, including security testing and 
     configuration management as applicable.
       (f) Oversight Metrics.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
     selected activities--
       (1) use a modern tracking tool to execute requirements 
     backlog tracking; and
       (2) use agile development metrics that, at a minimum, 
     track--
       (A) pace of work accomplishment;
       (B) completeness of scope of testing activities (such as 
     code coverage, fault tolerance, and boundary testing);
       (C) product quality attributes (such as major and minor 
     defects and measures of key performance attributes and 
     quality attributes);
       (D) delivery progress relative to the current product 
     roadmap; and
       (E) goals for each iteration.
       (g) Restrictions.--
       (1) Use of funds.--No funds made available for the selected 
     activities may be expended on estimation or evaluation using 
     source lines of code methodologies.
       (2) Contract types.--The Secretary of Defense may not use 
     lowest price technically acceptable contracting methods or 
     cost plus contracts to carry out selected activities under 
     this section, and shall encourage the use of existing 
     streamlined and flexible contracting arrangements.
       (h) Reports.--
       (1) Software development activity commencement.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 30 days before the 
     commencement of a software development activity under the 
     pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the activity (in this subsection referred to as a ``pilot 
     activity'').
       (B) Elements.--The report on a pilot activity under this 
     paragraph shall set forth a description of the pilot 
     activity, including the following information:
       (i) The purpose of the pilot activity.
       (ii) The duration of the pilot activity.
       (iii) The efficiencies and benefits anticipated to accrue 
     to the Government under the pilot program.
       (2) Software development activity completion.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
     completion of a pilot activity, the Secretary shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot 
     activity.
       (B) Elements.--The report on a pilot activity under this 
     paragraph shall include the following elements:
       (i) A description of results of the pilot activity.
       (ii) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
     action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the 
     pilot activity.
       (i) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Agile acquisition.--The term ``agile acquisition'' 
     means acquisition using agile or iterative development.

[[Page H8765]]

       (2) Agile or iterative development.--The term ``agile or 
     iterative development'', with respect to software--
       (A) means acquisition pursuant to a method for delivering 
     multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for 
     operational use, evaluation, and feedback not exclusively 
     linked to any single, proprietary method or process; and
       (B) involves--
       (i) the incremental development and fielding of 
     capabilities, commonly called ``spirals'', ``spins'', or 
     ``sprints'', which can be measured in a few weeks or months; 
     and
       (ii) continuous participation and collaboration by users, 
     testers, and requirements authorities.

     SEC. 875. PILOT PROGRAM FOR OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     initiate for the Department of Defense the open source 
     software pilot program established by the Office of 
     Management and Budget Memorandum M-16-21 titled ``Federal 
     Source Code Policy: Achieving Efficiency, Transparency, and 
     Innovation through Reusable and Open Source Software'' and 
     dated August 8, 2016.
       (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 60 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide a report to Congress with details of the plan 
     of the Department of Defense to implement the pilot program 
     required by subsection (a). Such plan shall include 
     identifying candidate software programs, selection criteria, 
     intellectual property and licensing issues, and other matters 
     determined by the Secretary.
       (c) Comptroller General Report.--Not later than June 1, 
     2019, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     provide a report to Congress on the implementation of the 
     pilot program required by subsection (a) by the Secretary of 
     Defense. The report shall address, at a minimum, the 
     compliance of the Secretary with the requirements of the 
     Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-16-21, the views 
     of various software and information technology stakeholders 
     in the Department of Defense, and any other matters 
     determined by the Comptroller General.

                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

     SEC. 881. EXTENSION OF MAXIMUM DURATION OF FUEL STORAGE 
                   CONTRACTS.

       (a) Extension.--Section 2922(b) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``20 years'' and inserting ``30 
     years''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply with respect to contracts entered into on or 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, and may be 
     applied to a contract entered into before that date if the 
     total contract period under the contract (including options) 
     has not expired as of the date of any extension of such 
     contract period by reason of such amendment.

     SEC. 882. PROCUREMENT OF AVIATION CRITICAL SAFETY ITEMS.

       Section 814(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2271; 10 
     U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by inserting ``or an aviation critical safety item (as 
     defined in section 2319(g) of this title)'' after ``personal 
     protective equipment''; and
       (B) by inserting ``equipment or'' after ``failure of the''; 
     and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or item'' after 
     ``equipment''.

     SEC. 883. MODIFICATIONS TO THE ADVISORY PANEL ON STREAMLINING 
                   AND CODIFYING ACQUISITION REGULATIONS.

       (a) Extension of Date for Final Report.--
       (1) Transmittal of panel final report.--Subsection (e)(1) 
     of section 809 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 889), as 
     amended by section 863(d) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2303), is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Not later than two years after the date 
     on which the Secretary of Defense establishes the advisory 
     panel'' and inserting ``Not later than January 15, 2019''; 
     and
       (B) by striking ``the Secretary.'' and inserting ``the 
     Secretary of Defense and the congressional defense 
     committees.''.
       (2) Secretary of defense action on final report.--
     Subsection (e)(4) of such section is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Not later than 30 days'' and inserting 
     ``Not later than 60 days''; and
       (B) by striking ``the final report, together with such 
     comments as the Secretary determines appropriate,'' and 
     inserting ``such comments as the Secretary determines 
     appropriate''.
       (b) Termination of Panel.--Such section is further amended 
     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(g) Termination of Panel.--The advisory panel shall 
     terminate 180 days after the date on which the final report 
     of the panel is transmitted pursuant to subsection (e)(1).''.
       (c) Technical Amendment.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
     amended by striking ``resources,,'' and inserting 
     ``resources,''.

     SEC. 884. REPEAL OF EXPIRED PILOT PROGRAM FOR LEASING 
                   COMMERCIAL UTILITY CARGO VEHICLES.

       Section 807(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 1996 (Public Law 104-106; 10 U.S.C. 2401a 
     note) is repealed.

     SEC. 885. EXCEPTION FOR BUSINESS OPERATIONS FROM REQUIREMENT 
                   TO ACCEPT $1 COINS.

       (a) In General.--Paragraph (1) of section 5112(p) of title 
     31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new flush sentence:
     ``This paragraph does not apply with respect to business 
     operations conducted by any entity under a contract with an 
     agency or instrumentality of the United States, including 
     with any nonappropriated fund instrumentality established 
     under title 10, United States Code.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Such paragraph is further 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``and all entities that operate any 
     business, including vending machines, on any premises owned 
     by the United States or under the control of any agency or 
     instrumentality of the United States, including the 
     legislative and judicial branches of the Federal 
     Government,''; and
       (2) by inserting ``and'' before ``all transit systems''.
       (c) Technical Amendment.--Subparagraph (B) of such 
     paragraph is amended by striking ``displays'' and inserting 
     ``display''.

     SEC. 886. DEVELOPMENT OF PROCUREMENT ADMINISTRATIVE LEAD 
                   TIME.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     develop, make available for public comment, and finalize--
       (1) a definition of the term ``Procurement Administrative 
     Lead Time'' or ``PALT'', to be applied Department of Defense-
     wide, that describes the amount of time from the date on 
     which a solicitation is issued to the date of an initial 
     award of a contract or task order of the Department of 
     Defense; and
       (2) a plan for measuring and publicly reporting data on 
     PALT for Department of Defense contracts and task orders 
     above the simplified acquisition threshold.
       (b) Requirement for Definition.--Unless the Secretary 
     determines otherwise, the amount of time in the definition of 
     PALT developed under subsection (a) shall--
       (1) begin on the date on which the initial solicitation is 
     issued for a contract or task order of the Department of 
     Defense by the Secretary of a military department or head of 
     a Defense Agency; and
       (2) end on the date of the award of the contract or task 
     order.
       (c) Coordination.--In developing the definition of PALT, 
     the Secretary shall coordinate with--
       (1) the senior contracting official of each military 
     department and Defense Agency to determine the variations of 
     the definition in use across the Department of Defense and 
     each military department and Defense Agency; and
       (2) the Administrator of the General Services 
     Administration on modifying the existing data system of the 
     Federal Government to determine the date on which the initial 
     solicitation is issued.
       (d) Use of Existing Procurement Data Systems.--In 
     developing the plan for measuring and publicly reporting data 
     on PALT required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall, to 
     the maximum extent practicable, rely on the information 
     contained in the Federal procurement data system established 
     pursuant to section 1122(a)(4) of title 41, United States 
     Code, including any modifications to that system.

     SEC. 887. NOTIONAL MILESTONES AND STANDARD TIMELINES FOR 
                   CONTRACTS FOR FOREIGN MILITARY SALES.

       (a) Establishment.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
     specific notional milestones and standard timelines for the 
     Department of Defense to achieve such milestones in its 
     processing of a foreign military sale (as authorized under 
     chapter 2 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761 et 
     seq.)). Such milestones and timelines--
       (A) may vary depending on the complexity of the foreign 
     military sale; and
       (B) shall cover the period beginning on the date of receipt 
     of a complete letter of request (as described in chapter 5 of 
     the Security Assistance Management Manual of the Defense 
     Security Cooperation Agency) from a foreign country and 
     ending on the date of the final delivery of a defense article 
     or defense service sold through the foreign military sale.
       (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the 
     milestones and timelines developed pursuant to paragraph (1) 
     of this section.
       (b) Submissions to Congress.--
       (1) Quarterly notification.--During the period beginning 
     180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and 
     ending on December 31, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress, on a quarterly basis, 
     a report that includes a list of each foreign military sale 
     with a value greater than or equal to the dollar threshold 
     for congressional notification under section 36 of the Arms 
     Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776)--
       (A) for which the final delivery of a defense article or 
     defense service has not been completed; and
       (B) that has not met a standard timeline to achieve a 
     notional milestone as established under subsection (a).
       (2) Annual report.--Not later than November 1, 2019, and 
     annually thereafter until December 31, 2021, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     report that summarizes--
       (A) the number, set forth separately by dollar value and 
     notional milestone, of foreign military sales that met the 
     standard timeline to achieve a notional milestone established 
     under subsection (a) during the preceding fiscal year; and
       (B) the number, set forth separately by dollar value and 
     notional milestone, of each foreign military sale that did 
     not meet the standard timeline to achieve a notional 
     milestone established under subsection (a), and a description 
     of any extenuating factors explaining why such a sale did not 
     achieve such milestone.

[[Page H8766]]

       (c) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the terms ``defense article'' and ``defense service'' 
     have the meanings given those terms, respectively, in section 
     47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794); and
       (2) the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. 888. ASSESSMENT AND AUTHORITY TO TERMINATE OR PROHIBIT 
                   CONTRACTS FOR PROCUREMENT FROM CHINESE 
                   COMPANIES PROVIDING SUPPORT TO THE DEMOCRATIC 
                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF KOREA.

       (a) Assessment Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
     and the Director of National Intelligence, shall conduct an 
     assessment of trade between the People's Republic of China 
     and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, including 
     elements deemed to be important to United States national 
     security and defense.
       (2) Elements.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) 
     shall--
       (A) assess the composition of all trade between China and 
     the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, including trade in 
     goods and services;
       (B) identify whether any Chinese commercial entities that 
     are engaged in such trade materially support illicit 
     activities on the part of North Korea;
       (C) evaluate the extent to which the United States 
     Government procures goods or services from any commercial 
     entity identified under subparagraph (B);
       (D) provide a list of commercial entities identified under 
     subparagraph (B) that provide defense goods or services for 
     the Department of Defense; and
       (E) evaluate the ramifications to United States national 
     security, including any impacts to the defense industrial 
     base, Department of Defense acquisition programs, and 
     Department of Defense logistics or supply chains, of 
     prohibiting procurements from commercial entities listed 
     under subparagraph (D).
       (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to Congress a report on the assessment required by paragraph 
     (1). The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
     may contain a classified annex.
       (b) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may terminate 
     existing contracts or prohibit the award of contracts for the 
     procurement of goods or services for the Department of 
     Defense from a Chinese commercial entity included on the list 
     described under subsection (a)(2)(D) based on a determination 
     informed by the assessment required under subsection (a)(1).
       (c) Notification.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress a notification of, and 
     detailed justification for, any exercise of the authority in 
     subsection (b) not less than 30 days before the date on which 
     the authority is exercised.
       (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. 889. REPORT ON DEFENSE CONTRACTING FRAUD.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     defense contracting fraud.
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) A summary of fraud-related criminal convictions and 
     civil judgments or settlements over the previous five fiscal 
     years.
       (2) A listing of contractors that within the previous five 
     fiscal years performed contracts for the Department of 
     Defense and were debarred or suspended from Federal 
     contracting based on a criminal conviction for fraud.
       (3) An assessment of the total value of Department of 
     Defense contracts entered into during the previous five 
     fiscal years with contractors that have been indicted for, 
     settled charges of, been fined by any Federal department or 
     agency for, or been convicted of fraud in connection with any 
     contract or other transaction entered into with the Federal 
     Government.
       (4) Recommendations by the Inspector General of the 
     Department of Defense or other appropriate Department of 
     Defense official regarding how to penalize contractors 
     repeatedly involved in fraud in connection with contracts or 
     other transactions entered into with the Federal Government, 
     including an update on implementation by the Department of 
     any previous such recommendations.

     SEC. 890. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON CONTRACTOR BUSINESS 
                   SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) Evaluation.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     report evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of the 
     program for the improvement of contractor business systems 
     established pursuant to section 893 of the Ike Skelton 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 
     (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note). The report shall--
       (1) describe how the requirements of such program were 
     implemented, including the roles and responsibilities of 
     relevant Defense Agencies and known costs to the Federal 
     Government and covered contractors;
       (2) analyze the extent to which implementation of such 
     program has affected, if at all, covered contractor 
     performance or the management and oversight of covered 
     contracts of the Department of Defense;
       (3) assess how the amendments to contractor business system 
     requirements made by section 893 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2324) were implemented, including--
       (A) the effects of revising the definition of ``covered 
     contractor'' in section 893(g)(2) of the Ike Skelton National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
     111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) and the feasibility and the 
     potential effects of further increasing the percentage of the 
     total gross revenue included in the definition; and
       (B) the extent to which third-party independent auditors 
     have conducted contractor business system assessments 
     pursuant to section 893(c) of the Ike Skelton National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
     111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note);
       (4) identify any additional information or management 
     practices that could enhance the process for assessing 
     contractor business systems, particularly when covered 
     contractors have multiple covered contracts with the 
     Department of Defense; and
       (5) include any other matters the Comptroller General 
     determines to be relevant.
       (b) Contractor Business System Definitions.--In this 
     section, the terms ``covered contractor'', ``covered 
     contract'', and ``contractor business system'' have the 
     meanings given in section 893 of the Ike Skelton National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
     111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note).

     SEC. 891. TRAINING ON AGILE OR ITERATIVE DEVELOPMENT METHODS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the President of the Defense Acquisition 
     University, shall establish a training course at the Defense 
     Acquisition University on agile or iterative development 
     methods to provide training for personnel implementing and 
     supporting the pilot programs required by sections 873 and 
     874 of this Act.
       (b) Course Elements.--
       (1) In general.--The course shall be taught in residence at 
     the Defense Acquisition University and shall include the 
     following elements:
       (A) Training designed to instill a common understanding of 
     all functional roles and dependencies involved in developing 
     and producing a capability using agile or iterative 
     development methods.
       (B) An exercise involving teams composed of personnel from 
     pertinent functions and functional organizations engaged in 
     developing an integrated agile or iterative development 
     method for a specific program.
       (C) Instructors and content from non-governmental entities, 
     as appropriate, to highlight commercial best practices in 
     using an agile or iterative development method.
       (2) Course updates.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
     course is updated as needed, including through incorporating 
     lessons learned from the implementation of the pilot programs 
     required by sections 873 and 874 of this Act in subsequent 
     versions of the course.
       (c) Course Attendance.--The course shall be--
       (1) available for certified acquisition personnel working 
     on programs or projects using agile or iterative development 
     methods; and
       (2) mandatory for personnel participating in the pilot 
     programs required by sections 873 and 874 of this Act from 
     the relevant organizations in each of the military 
     departments and Defense Agencies, including organizations 
     responsible for engineering, budgeting, contracting, test and 
     evaluation, requirements validation, and certification and 
     accreditation.
       (d) Agile Acquisition Support.--The Secretary and the 
     senior acquisition executives in each of the military 
     departments and Defense Agencies, in coordination with the 
     Director of the Defense Digital Service, shall assign to 
     offices supporting systems selected for participation in the 
     pilot programs required by sections 873 and 874 of this Act a 
     subject matter expert with knowledge of commercial agile 
     acquisition methods and Department of Defense acquisition 
     processes to provide assistance and to advise appropriate 
     acquisition authorities of the expert's observations.
       (e) Agile Research Program.--The President of the Defense 
     Acquisition University shall establish a research program to 
     conduct research on and development of agile acquisition 
     practices and tools best tailored to meet the mission needs 
     of the Department of Defense.
       (f) Agile or Iterative Development Defined.--The term 
     ``agile or iterative development'', with respect to 
     software--
       (1) means acquisition pursuant to a method for delivering 
     multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for 
     operational use, evaluation, and feedback not exclusively 
     linked to any single, proprietary method or process; and
       (2) involves--
       (A) the incremental development and fielding of 
     capabilities, commonly called ``spirals'', ``spins'', or 
     ``sprints'', which can be measured in a few weeks or months; 
     and
       (B) continuous participation and collaboration by users, 
     testers, and requirements authorities.

[[Page H8767]]

  


      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Treatment of incumbent Under Secretary of Defense for 
              Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
Sec. 902. Clarification of authority of Under Secretary of Defense for 
              Acquisition and Sustainment with respect to service 
              acquisition programs for which the service acquisition 
              executive is the milestone decision authority.
Sec. 903. Executive Schedule matters relating to Under Secretary of 
              Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
Sec. 904. Consistent period of relief from active duty as a 
              commissioned officer of a regular component of the Armed 
              Forces for appointment to Under Secretary of Defense 
              positions.
Sec. 905. Qualifications for appointment and additional duties and 
              powers of certain officials within the Office of the 
              Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
Sec. 906. Redesignation of Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of 
              Defense as Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense and 
              related matters.
Sec. 907. Reduction of number and elimination of specific designations 
              of Assistant Secretaries of Defense.
Sec. 908. Limitation on maximum number of Deputy Assistant Secretaries 
              of Defense.
Sec. 909. Appointment and responsibilities of Chief Information Officer 
              of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 910. Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.

               Subtitle B--Data Management and Analytics

Sec. 911. Policy on treatment of defense business system data related 
              to business operations and management.
Sec. 912. Transparency of defense management data.
Sec. 913. Establishment of set of activities that use data analysis, 
              measurement, and other evaluation-related methods to 
              improve acquisition program outcomes.

  Subtitle C--Organization of Other Department of Defense Offices and 
                                Elements

Sec. 921. Qualifications for appointment of Assistant Secretaries of 
              the military departments for financial management.
Sec. 922. Manner of carrying out reductions in major Department of 
              Defense headquarters activities pursuant to headquarters 
              reduction plan.
Sec. 923. Certifications on cost savings achieved by reductions in 
              major Department of Defense headquarters activities.
Sec. 924. Corrosion control and prevention executives matters.
Sec. 925. Background and security investigations for Department of 
              Defense personnel.

            Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

Sec. 931. Additional elements in reports on policy, organization, and 
              management goals of the Secretary of Defense for the 
              Department of Defense.
Sec. 932. Report and sense of Congress on responsibility for 
              developmental test and evaluation within the Office of 
              the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 933. Report on Office of Corrosion Policy and Oversight.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 941. Commission on the National Defense Strategy for the United 
              States.

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

     SEC. 901. TREATMENT OF INCUMBENT UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
                   FOR ACQUISITION, TECHNOLOGY, AND LOGISTICS.

       Section 901(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2339; 10 
     U.S.C. 133a note) is amended by striking paragraph (2).

     SEC. 902. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF UNDER SECRETARY OF 
                   DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT WITH 
                   RESPECT TO SERVICE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS FOR 
                   WHICH THE SERVICE ACQUISITION EXECUTIVE IS THE 
                   MILESTONE DECISION AUTHORITY.

       Effective on February 1, 2018, and immediately after the 
     coming into effect of the amendment made by section 901(b) of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2340), subsection (b)(6) of 
     section 133b of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
     such section 901(b), is amended by striking ``supervisory 
     authority'' and inserting ``advisory authority''.

     SEC. 903. EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE MATTERS RELATING TO UNDER 
                   SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION AND 
                   SUSTAINMENT.

       (a) Repeal of Pending Executive Schedule Amendment.--
     Section 901(h) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2342; 5 
     U.S.C. 5313 note) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``new items'' and inserting ``new item''; 
     and
       (2) by striking the item relating to the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
       (b) Executive Schedule Level III.--Effective on February 1, 
     2018, section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
     by inserting before the item relating to the Under Secretary 
     of Defense for Policy the following new item:
       ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment.''.

     SEC. 904. CONSISTENT PERIOD OF RELIEF FROM ACTIVE DUTY AS A 
                   COMMISSIONED OFFICER OF A REGULAR COMPONENT OF 
                   THE ARMED FORCES FOR APPOINTMENT TO UNDER 
                   SECRETARY OF DEFENSE POSITIONS.

       Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in section 135(a), by adding at the end the following 
     new sentence: ``A person may not be appointed as Under 
     Secretary within seven years after relief from active duty as 
     a commissioned officer of a regular component of the armed 
     forces.'';
       (2) in section 136(a), by adding at the end the following 
     new sentence: ``A person may not be appointed as Under 
     Secretary within seven years after relief from active duty as 
     a commissioned officer of a regular component of the armed 
     forces.''; and
       (3) in section 137(a), by adding at the end the following 
     new sentence: ``A person may not be appointed as Under 
     Secretary within seven years after relief from active duty as 
     a commissioned officer of a regular component of the armed 
     forces.''.

     SEC. 905. QUALIFICATIONS FOR APPOINTMENT AND ADDITIONAL 
                   DUTIES AND POWERS OF CERTAIN OFFICIALS WITHIN 
                   THE OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
                   (COMPTROLLER).

       (a) Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).--
       (1) Qualification for appointment.--Section 135(a) of title 
     10, United States Code, as amended by section 904, is further 
     amended--
       (A) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(a)''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall be 
     appointed from among persons who have significant budget, 
     financial management, or audit experience in complex 
     organizations.''.
       (2) Duties and powers.--Section 135 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is further amended--
       (A) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively; and
       (B) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
     subsection (d):
       ``(d) In addition to any duties under subsection (c), the 
     Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall, subject to 
     the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of 
     Defense, do the following:
       ``(1) Provide guidance and instruction on annual 
     performance plans and evaluations to the following:
       ``(A) The Assistant Secretaries of the military departments 
     for financial management.
       ``(B) Any other official of an agency, organization, or 
     element of the Department of Defense with responsibility for 
     financial management.
       ``(2) Give directions to the military departments, Defense 
     Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the 
     Department of Defense regarding their financial statements 
     and the audit and audit readiness of such financial 
     statements.''.
       (b) Qualification for Appointment as Deputy Chief Financial 
     Officer.--The Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the 
     Department of Defense shall be appointed from among persons 
     who have significant budget, financial management, or audit 
     experience in complex organizations.
       (c) Applicability.--The appointment qualifications imposed 
     by the amendments made by subsection (a)(1) and the 
     appointment qualifications imposed by subsection (b) shall 
     apply with respect to appointments as Under Secretary of 
     Defense (Comptroller) and Deputy Chief Financial Officer of 
     the Department of Defense that are made on or after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 906. REDESIGNATION OF PRINCIPAL DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARIES 
                   OF DEFENSE AS DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARIES OF 
                   DEFENSE AND RELATED MATTERS.

       (a) Redesignation.--Section 137a of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``Principal'' each place it 
     appears.
       (b) Increase in Authorized Number.--Section 137a(a)(1) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``five'' 
     and inserting ``six''.
       (c) Replacement of ATL Position With Two Positions in 
     Connection With OSD Reform.--Effective on February 1, 2018, 
     section 137a(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (5) as 
     paragraphs (3) through (6), respectively; and
       (2) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
     new paragraphs:
       ``(1) One of the Deputy Under Secretaries is the Deputy 
     Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
       ``(2) One of the Deputy Under Secretaries is the Deputy 
     Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment.''.
       (d) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) OSD.--Paragraph (6) of section 131(b) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(6) The Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense.''.
       (2) Precedence.--Section 138(d) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``Principal''.
       (e) Executive Schedule Level IV.--Section 5315 of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``Principal'' in the items relating to the 
     Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the 
     Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
     Readiness, the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of

[[Page H8768]]

     Defense (Comptroller), and the Principal Deputy Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Intelligence; and
       (2) by inserting before the item relating to the Deputy 
     Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, as amended by 
     paragraph (1), the following new items:
       ``Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
     Engineering.
       ``Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment.''.
       (f) Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of section 137a of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 137a. Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense''.

       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 137a and 
     inserting the following new item:

``137a. Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense.''.

     SEC. 907. REDUCTION OF NUMBER AND ELIMINATION OF SPECIFIC 
                   DESIGNATIONS OF ASSISTANT SECRETARIES OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Reduction of Authorized Number.--Section 138(a)(1) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``14'' 
     and inserting ``13''.
       (b) Elimination of Certain Specific Designations.--Section 
     138(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
       (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) as 
     paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively.

     SEC. 908. LIMITATION ON MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DEPUTY ASSISTANT 
                   SECRETARIES OF DEFENSE.

       The maximum number of Deputy Assistant Secretaries of 
     Defense after the date of the enactment of this Act may not 
     exceed 48.

     SEC. 909. APPOINTMENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHIEF 
                   INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Appointment Method and Qualifications.--Section 142(a) 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
     before the period at the end the following: ``, who shall be 
     appointed by the President, by and with the advice and 
     consent of the Senate, from among civilians who are qualified 
     to serve as such officer''.
       (b) Clarification of Certain Responsibilities.--Section 
     142(b)(1)(I) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking ``the networking and cyber defense architecture'' 
     and inserting ``the information technology, networking, 
     information assurance, cybersecurity, and cyber capability 
     architectures''.
       (c) Additional Responsibilities Related to Budgets and 
     Standards.--Section 142(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (4); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
     paragraphs:
       ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under 
     Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), shall require the 
     Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of the 
     Defense Agencies with responsibilities associated with any 
     activity specified in paragraph (1) to transmit the proposed 
     budget for such activities for a fiscal year and for the 
     period covered by the future-years defense program submitted 
     to Congress under section 221 of this title for that fiscal 
     year to the Chief Information Officer for review under 
     subparagraph (B) before submitting the proposed budget to the 
     Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
       ``(B) The Chief Information Officer shall review each 
     proposed budget transmitted under subparagraph (A) and, not 
     later than January 31 of the year preceding the fiscal year 
     for which the budget is proposed, shall submit to the 
     Secretary of Defense a report containing the comments of the 
     Chief Information Officer with respect to all such proposed 
     budgets, together with the certification of the Chief 
     Information Officer regarding whether each proposed budget is 
     adequate.
       ``(C) Not later than March 31 of each year, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall submit to Congress a report specifying each 
     proposed budget contained in the most-recent report submitted 
     under subparagraph (B) that the Chief Information Officer did 
     not certify to be adequate. The report of the Secretary shall 
     include the following matters:
       ``(i) A discussion of the actions that the Secretary 
     proposes to take, together with any recommended legislation 
     that the Secretary considers appropriate, to address the 
     inadequacy of the proposed budgets specified in the report.
       ``(ii) Any additional comments that the Secretary considers 
     appropriate regarding the inadequacy of the proposed budgets.
       ``(3)(A) The Secretary of a military department or head of 
     a Defense Agency may not develop or procure information 
     technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 40) that 
     does not fully comply with such standards as the Chief 
     Information Officer may establish.
       ``(B) The Chief Information Officer shall implement and 
     enforce a process for--
       ``(i) developing, adopting, or publishing standards for 
     information technology, networking, or cyber capabilities to 
     which any military department or defense agency would need to 
     adhere in order to run such capabilities on defense networks; 
     and
       ``(ii) certifying on a regular and ongoing basis that any 
     capabilities being developed or procured meets such standards 
     as have been published by the Department at the time of 
     certification.
       ``(C) The Chief Information Officer shall identify gaps in 
     standards and mitigation plans for operating in the absence 
     of acceptable standards.''.
       (d) Direction and Precedence.--Section 142 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsections:
       ``(c) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
     Defense shall report directly to the Secretary of Defense in 
     the performance of duties under this section.
       ``(d) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
     Defense takes precedence in the Department of Defense with 
     the officials serving in positions specified in section 
     131(b)(4) of this title. The officials serving in positions 
     specified in such section and the Chief Information Officer 
     take precedence among themselves in the order prescribed by 
     the Secretary of Defense.''.
       (e) Alternative Proposal.--Not later than March 1, 2018, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a proposal for such alternatives or 
     modifications to the realignment of responsibilities of the 
     Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense 
     required by the amendments made by subsection (a) as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate, together with an 
     implementation plan for such proposal. The proposal may not 
     be carried out unless approved by statute.
       (f) Service of Incumbent Without Further Appointment.--The 
     individual serving in the position of Chief Information 
     Officer of the Department of Defense as of January 1, 2019, 
     may continue to serve in such position commencing as of that 
     date without further appointment pursuant to section 142 of 
     title 10, United States Code, as amended by this section.
       (g) Effective Date of Amendments.--The amendments made by 
     this section shall take effect on January 1, 2019.

     SEC. 910. CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Chief Management Officer.--
       (1) In general.--Effective February 1, 2018, section 132a 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
     follows:

     ``Sec. 132a. Chief Management Officer

       ``(a) Appointment and Qualifications.--(1) There is a Chief 
     Management Officer of the Department of Defense, appointed 
     from civilian life by the President, by and with the advice 
     and consent of the Senate.
       ``(2) The Chief Management Officer shall be appointed from 
     among persons who have an extensive management or business 
     background and experience with managing large or complex 
     organizations. A person may not be appointed as Chief 
     Management Officer within seven years after relief from 
     active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component 
     of an armed force.
       ``(b) Responsibilities.--Subject to the authority, 
     direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Chief Management Officer 
     shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the 
     Secretary or the Deputy Secretary may prescribe, including 
     the following:
       ``(1) Serving as the chief management officer of the 
     Department of Defense with the mission of managing enterprise 
     business operations and shared services of the Department of 
     Defense.
       ``(2) Serving as the principal advisor to the Secretary and 
     the Deputy Secretary on establishing policies for, and 
     directing, all enterprise business operations of the 
     Department, including planning and processes, business 
     transformation, performance measurement and management, and 
     business information technology management and improvement 
     activities and programs, including the allocation of 
     resources for enterprise business operations and unifying 
     business management efforts across the Department.
       ``(3) Exercising authority, direction, and control over the 
     Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities 
     providing shared business services for the Department that 
     are designated by the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary for 
     purposes of this paragraph.
       ``(4) As of January 1, 2019--
       ``(A) serving as the Chief Information Officer of the 
     Department for purposes of section 2222 of this title;
       ``(B) administering the responsibilities and duties 
     specified in sections 11315 and 11319 of title 40, section 
     3506(a)(2) of title 44, and section 2223(a) of this title for 
     business systems and management; and
       ``(C) Exercising any responsibilities, duties, and powers 
     relating to business systems or management that are 
     exercisable by a chief information officer for the 
     Department, other than those responsibilities, duties, and 
     powers of a chief information officer that are vested in the 
     Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense by 
     section 142 of this title.
       ``(5) Serving as the official with principal responsibility 
     in the Department for providing for the availability of 
     common, usable, Defense-wide data sets with applications such 
     as improving acquisition outcomes and personnel management.
       ``(6) Authority to direct the Secretaries of the military 
     departments and the heads of all other elements of the 
     Department with regard to matters for which the Chief 
     Management Officer has responsibility under this section.
       ``(c) Precedence.--The Chief Management Officer takes 
     precedence in the Department of Defense after the Secretary 
     of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
       ``(d) Enterprise Business Operation Defined.--In this 
     section, the term `enterprise business operations' means 
     those activities that constitute the cross-cutting business 
     operations used by multiple components of the Department of 
     Defense, but not those activities that are directly tied to a 
     single military department or Department of Defense 
     component. The term includes business-support functions 
     designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy 
     Secretary of Defense for purposes of this section,

[[Page H8769]]

     such as aspects of financial management, healthcare, 
     acquisition and procurement, supply chain and logistics, 
     certain information technology, real property, and human 
     resources operations.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--Effective February 1, 2018, the 
     table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating 
     to section 132a and inserting the following new item:

``132a. Chief Management Officer.''.
       (b) Conforming Repeal of Prior Authorities on Chief 
     Management Officer.--
       (1) In general.--Effective on January 31, 2018, subsection 
     (c) of section 901 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2341; 10 
     U.S.C. 131 note) is repealed, and the amendments to be made 
     by paragraph (4) of that subsection shall not be made.
       (2) Further conforming amendments.--Effective on February 
     1, 2018, section 132 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (c); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
       (c) Conforming Amendments on Precedence in DoD.--Effective 
     on February 1, 2018, and immediately after the coming into 
     effect of the amendments made by section 901 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2339; 10 U.S.C. 131 note)--
       (1) section 131(b) of title 10, United States Code, as 
     amended by section 906(d)(1) of this Act, is further 
     amended--
       (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (9) as 
     paragraphs (3) through (10), respectively; and
       (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
     paragraph (2):
       ``(2) The Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
     Defense.'';
       (2) section 133a(c) of such title is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and the Deputy 
     Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``, the Deputy Secretary 
     of Defense, and the Chief Management Officer of the 
     Department of Defense''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``the Chief Management 
     Officer,'' after ``the Deputy Secretary,''; and
       (3) section 133b(c) of such title is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``the Chief Management 
     Officer of the Department of Defense,'' after ``the Deputy 
     Secretary of Defense,''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``the Chief Management 
     Officer,'' after ``the Deputy Secretary,''.
       (d) Executive Schedule Level II.--Effective on February 1, 
     2018, and immediately after the coming into effect of the 
     amendment made by section 901(h) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2342; 5 U.S.C. 5313 note), section 5313 of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended by inserting before the item 
     relating to the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
     Engineering the following new item:
       ``Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.''.
       (e) Service of Incumbent Deputy Chief Management Officer as 
     Chief Management Officer Upon Commencement of Latter Position 
     Without Further Appointment.--The individual serving in the 
     position of Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department 
     of Defense as of February 1, 2018, may continue to serve as 
     Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense under 
     section 132a of title 10, United States Code (as amended by 
     subsection (a)), commencing as of that date without further 
     appointment pursuant to such section 132a.
       (f) Defense Agencies and Field Activities Providing Shared 
     Business Services.--
       (1) Initial reporting requirement.--Not later than January 
     15, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report specifying each 
     Defense Agency and Department of Defense Field Activity 
     providing shared business services for the Department of 
     Defense that is to be designated by the Secretary of Defense 
     or the Deputy Secretary of Defense for purposes of subsection 
     (b)(3) of section 132a of title 10, United States Code (as 
     amended by subsection (a)), as of the coming into effect of 
     such section 132a.
       (2) Notice to congress on transfer of oversight.--Upon the 
     transfer to the Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
     Defense of responsibility for oversight of shared business 
     services of a Defense Agency or Department of Defense Field 
     Activity specified in the report required by paragraph (1), 
     the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a notice of the transfer, including the 
     Defense Agency or Field Activity subject to the transfer and 
     a description of the nature and scope of the responsibility 
     for oversight transferred.

               Subtitle B--Data Management and Analytics

     SEC. 911. POLICY ON TREATMENT OF DEFENSE BUSINESS SYSTEM DATA 
                   RELATED TO BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT.

       (a) Establishment of Policy.--Not later than one year after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall establish a data policy for the Department of 
     Defense that mandates that any data contained in a defense 
     business system related to business operations and management 
     is an asset of the Department of Defense.
       (b) Availability.--As part of the policy required by 
     subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, 
     except as otherwise provided by law or regulation, data 
     described in such subsection shall be made readily available 
     to members of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Joint Staff, the military departments, the combatant 
     commands, the Defense Agencies, the Department of Defense 
     Field Activities, and all other offices, agencies, 
     activities, and commands of the Department of Defense, as 
     applicable.

     SEC. 912. TRANSPARENCY OF DEFENSE MANAGEMENT DATA.

       (a) Common Enterprise Data.--
       (1) In general.--Section 2222(e) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraphs:
       ``(5) Common enterprise data.--The defense business 
     enterprise shall include enterprise data that may be 
     automatically extracted from the relevant systems to 
     facilitate Department of Defense-wide analysis and management 
     of its business operations.
       ``(6) Roles and responsibilities.--
       ``(A) The Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
     Defense shall have primary decision-making authority with 
     respect to the development of common enterprise data. In 
     consultation with the Defense Business Council, the Chief 
     Management Officer shall--
       ``(i) develop an associated data governance process; and
       ``(ii) oversee the preparation, extraction, and provision 
     of data across the defense business enterprise.
       ``(B) The Chief Management Officer and the Under Secretary 
     of Defense (Comptroller) shall--
       ``(i) in consultation with the Defense Business Council, 
     document and maintain any common enterprise data for their 
     respective areas of authority;
       ``(ii) participate in any related data governance process;
       ``(iii) extract data from defense business systems as 
     needed to support priority activities and analyses;
       ``(iv) when appropriate, ensure the source data is the same 
     as that used to produce the financial statements subject to 
     annual audit;
       ``(v) in consultation with the Defense Business Council, 
     provide access, except as otherwise provided by law or 
     regulation, to such data to the Office of the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Joint Staff, the military departments, the 
     combatant commands, the Defense Agencies, the Department of 
     Defense Field Activities, and all other offices, agencies, 
     activities, and commands of the Department of Defense; and
       ``(vi) ensure consistency of the common enterprise data 
     maintained by their respective organizations.
       ``(C) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation shall have access to data for the purpose of 
     executing missions as designated by the Secretary of Defense.
       ``(D) The Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint 
     Chiefs of Staff, the Secretaries of the military departments, 
     commanders of combatant commands, the heads of the Defense 
     Agencies, the heads of the Department of Defense Field 
     Activities, and the heads of all other offices, agencies, 
     activities, and commands of the Department of Defense shall 
     provide access to the relevant system of such department, 
     combatant command, Defense Agency, Defense Field Activity, or 
     office, agency, activity, and command organization, as 
     applicable, and data extracted from such system, for purposes 
     of automatically populating data sets coded with common 
     enterprise data.''.
       (2) Definitions.--Section 2222(i) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraphs:
       ``(10) Common enterprise data.--The term `common enterprise 
     data' means business operations or management-related data, 
     generally from defense business systems, in a usable format 
     that is automatically accessible by authorized personnel and 
     organizations.
       ``(11) Data governance process.--The term `data governance 
     process' means a system to manage the timely Department of 
     Defense-wide sharing of data described under subsection 
     (a)(6)(A).''.
       (b) Duties of Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).--
     Section 135(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in 
     the second sentence by inserting after ``shall perform'' the 
     following: ``the duties assigned to the Under Secretary in 
     section 2222 of this title and''.
       (c) Duties of Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation.--Section 139a(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(9) Performing the duties assigned to the Director in 
     section 2222 of this title.''.
       (d) Implementation Plan for Common Enterprise Data.--
       (1) Plan required.--Not later than one year after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Deputy Secretary of 
     Defense, acting through the Chief Management Officer of the 
     Department of Defense, shall develop a plan to implement the 
     amendments made by subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--At a minimum, the implementation plan 
     required by paragraph (1) shall include the following 
     elements:
       (A) The major tasks required to implement the requirements 
     imposed by the amendments made by subsection (a) and the 
     recommended time frames for each task.
       (B) The estimated resources required to complete each major 
     task identified pursuant to subparagraph (A).
       (C) Any challenges associated with each major task 
     identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) and related steps to 
     mitigate such challenge.
       (D) A description of how data security issues will be 
     appropriately addressed in the implementation of such 
     requirements.
       (E) A review of the curriculum taught at the National 
     Defense University, the Defense Acquisition University, 
     professional military educational institutions, and 
     appropriate private sector academic institutions to determine 
     the extent to which the curricula include appropriate courses 
     on data management, data analytics and other evaluation-
     related methods.

[[Page H8770]]

       (3) Role of under secretary of defense (comptroller).--The 
     Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall ensure that 
     the implementation plan required by paragraph (1) does not 
     conflict with the financial statement audit priorities and 
     timeline of the Department of Defense.
       (4) Submission to congress.--Upon completion of the 
     implementation plan required by paragraph (1), the Chief 
     Management Officer shall submit the plan to the congressional 
     defense committees.
       (e) Application of New Authorities Required.--
       (1) Data analytics capability required.--Not later than 
     September 30, 2020, the Chief Management Officer of the 
     Department of Defense shall establish and maintain within the 
     Department of Defense a data analytics capability for 
     purposes of supporting enhanced oversight and management of 
     the Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field 
     Activities.
       (2) Elements.--The data analytics capability shall permit 
     the following:
       (A) The maintenance on a continuing basis of an accurate 
     tabulation of the amounts expended by the Defense Agencies 
     and Department of Defense Field Activities on Government and 
     contractor personnel.
       (B) The maintenance on a continuing basis of an accurate 
     number of the personnel currently supporting the Defense 
     Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities, 
     including the following:
       (i) Members of the regular components of the Armed Forces.
       (ii) Members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
       (iii) Civilian employees of the Department of Defense.
       (iv) Detailees, whether from another organization or 
     element of the Department or from another department or 
     agency of the Federal Government.
       (C) The tracking of costs for employing contract personnel, 
     including federally funded research and development centers.
       (D) The maintenance on a continuing basis of the following:
       (i) An identification of the functions being performed by 
     each Defense Agency and Department of Defense Field Activity.
       (ii) An accurate tabulation of the amounts being expended 
     by each Defense Agency and Department of Defense Field 
     Activity on its functions.
       (3) Reporting requirements.--
       (A) Interim report.--Not later than one year after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Management Officer of 
     the Department of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report on progress in establishing the 
     data analytics capability. The report shall include the 
     following:
       (i) A description and assessment of the efforts of the 
     Chief Management Officer through the date of the report to 
     establish the data analytics capability.
       (ii) A description of current gaps in the data required to 
     establish the data analytics capability, and a description of 
     the efforts to be undertaken to eliminate such gaps.
       (B) Final report.--Not later than December 31, 2020, the 
     Chief Management Officer shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report on the data analytics capability 
     as established pursuant to this section.
       (f) Additional Pilot Programs Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
     pilot programs to develop data integration strategies for the 
     Department of Defense to address high-priority management 
     challenges of the Department.
       (2) Elements.--The pilot programs carried out under the 
     authority of this subsection shall involve data integration 
     strategies to address challenges of the Department with 
     respect to the following:
       (A) The budget of the Department.
       (B) Logistics.
       (C) Personnel security and insider threats.
       (D) At least two other high-priority challenges of the 
     Department identified by the Secretary for purposes of this 
     subsection.
       (3) Report on pilot programs.--Not later than one year 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a report describing the pilot programs to be carried out 
     under this section, including the challenge of the Department 
     to be addressed by the pilot program and the manner in which 
     the data integration strategy under the pilot program will 
     address the challenge. If any proposed pilot program requires 
     legislative action for the waiver or modification of a 
     statutory requirement that otherwise prevents or impedes the 
     implementation of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
     include in the report a recommendation for legislative action 
     to waive or modify the statutory requirement.

     SEC. 913. ESTABLISHMENT OF SET OF ACTIVITIES THAT USE DATA 
                   ANALYSIS, MEASUREMENT, AND OTHER EVALUATION-
                   RELATED METHODS TO IMPROVE ACQUISITION PROGRAM 
                   OUTCOMES.

       (a) Establishment Required.--Not later than one year after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall establish a set of activities that use data 
     analysis, measurement, and other evaluation-related methods 
     to improve the acquisition outcomes of the Department of 
     Defense and enhance organizational learning.
       (b) Types of Activities.--The set of activities established 
     under subsection (a) may include any or all of the following: 
     --
       (1) Establishment of data analytics capabilities and 
     organizations within an Armed Force.
       (2) Development of capabilities in Department of Defense 
     laboratories, test centers, and federally funded research and 
     development centers to provide technical support for data 
     analytics activities that support acquisition program 
     management and business process re-engineering activities.
       (3) Increased use of existing analytical capabilities 
     available to acquisition programs and offices to support 
     improved acquisition outcomes.
       (4) Funding of intramural and extramural research and 
     development activities to develop and implement data 
     analytics capabilities in support of improved acquisition 
     outcomes.
       (5) Publication, to the maximum extent practicable, and in 
     a manner that protects classified and proprietary 
     information, of data collected by the Department of Defense 
     related to acquisition program costs and activities for 
     access and analyses by the general public or Department 
     research and education organizations.
       (6) Promulgation by the Chief of Staff of the Army, the 
     Chief of Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air 
     Force, and the Commandant of the Marine Corps, in 
     coordination with the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, and the 
     Under Secretary for Acquisition and Sustainment, of a 
     consistent policy as to the role of data analytics in 
     establishing budgets and making milestone decisions for major 
     defense acquisition programs.
       (7) Continual assessment, in consultation with the private 
     sector, of the efficiency of current data collection and 
     analyses processes, so as to minimize the requirement for 
     collection and delivery of data by, from, and to Government 
     organizations.
       (8) Promulgation of guidance to acquisition programs and 
     activities on the efficient use, quality, and sharing of 
     enterprise data between programs and organizations to improve 
     acquisition program analytics and outcomes.
       (9) Establishment of focused research and educational 
     activities at the Defense Acquisition University, and 
     appropriate private sector academic institutions, to support 
     enhanced use of data management, data analytics, and other 
     evaluation-related methods to improve acquisition outcomes.

  Subtitle C--Organization of Other Department of Defense Offices and 
                                Elements

     SEC. 921. QUALIFICATIONS FOR APPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANT 
                   SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS FOR 
                   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT.

       (a) Assistant Secretary of the Army.--Section 3016(b)(4) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(4)'';
       (2) by striking ``The Assistant Secretary shall have as his 
     principal responsibility'' and inserting the following:
       ``(C) The principal responsibility of the Assistant 
     Secretary shall be''; and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A), as designated by 
     paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph (B):
       ``(B) The Assistant Secretary shall be appointed from among 
     persons who have significant budget, financial management, or 
     audit experience in complex organizations.''.
       (b) Assistant Secretary of the Navy.--Section 5016(b)(3) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'';
       (2) by striking ``The Assistant Secretary shall have as his 
     principal responsibility'' and inserting the following:
       ``(C) The principal responsibility of the Assistant 
     Secretary shall be''; and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A), as designated by 
     paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph (B):
       ``(B) The Assistant Secretary shall be appointed from among 
     persons who have significant budget, financial management, or 
     audit experience in complex organizations.''.
       (c) Assistant Secretary of the Air Force.--Section 
     8016(b)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'';
       (2) by striking ``The Assistant Secretary shall have as his 
     principal responsibility'' and inserting the following:
       ``(C) The principal responsibility of the Assistant 
     Secretary shall be''; and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A), as designated by 
     paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph (B):
       ``(B) The Assistant Secretary shall be appointed from among 
     persons who have significant budget, financial management, or 
     audit experience in complex organizations.''.
       (d) Applicability.--The appointment qualifications imposed 
     by the amendments made by this section shall apply with 
     respect to an appointment as an Assistant Secretary of a 
     military department for financial management that is made on 
     or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 922. MANNER OF CARRYING OUT REDUCTIONS IN MAJOR 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES 
                   PURSUANT TO HEADQUARTERS REDUCTION PLAN.

       Section 346(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 796; 10 
     U.S.C. 111 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(5) Manner of carrying out reductions.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement 
     the headquarters reduction plan referred to in paragraph (1), 
     as modified pursuant to that paragraph, so that reductions in 
     major Department of Defense headquarters activities pursuant 
     to the plan are carried out only after consideration of--
       ``(i) the current manpower levels of major Department of 
     Defense headquarters activities;
       ``(ii) the historic manpower levels of major Department of 
     Defense headquarters activities;
       ``(iii) the mission requirements of major Department of 
     Defense headquarters activities; and

[[Page H8771]]

       ``(iv) the anticipated staffing needs of major Department 
     of Defense headquarters activities necessary to meet national 
     defense objectives.
       ``(B) Conforming modification of plan for achievement of 
     cost savings.--The Secretary of Defense shall modify the plan 
     for achievement of cost savings required by subsection (a) to 
     take into account the requirement specified in subparagraph 
     (A).''.

     SEC. 923. CERTIFICATIONS ON COST SAVINGS ACHIEVED BY 
                   REDUCTIONS IN MAJOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES.

       Section 346(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 796 10 
     U.S.C. 111 note), as amended by section 922, is further 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(6) Certifications on cost savings achieved.--Not later 
     than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
     paragraph, and not later than 60 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2018 through 2020, the Director of Cost 
     Assessment and Program Evaluation shall certify to the 
     Secretary of Defense, and to the congressional defense 
     committees, the following:
       ``(A) The validity of the cost savings achieved for each 
     major Department of Defense headquarters activity during the 
     previous fiscal year, including the cost of personnel 
     detailed by another Department entity to the headquarters 
     activity.
       ``(B) Whether the cost savings achieved for each major 
     Department of Defense headquarters activity during that 
     fiscal year met the savings objective for the headquarters 
     activity for that fiscal year, as established pursuant to 
     paragraph (1).''.

     SEC. 924. CORROSION CONTROL AND PREVENTION EXECUTIVES 
                   MATTERS.

       (a) Scope and Level of Positions.--Section 903(a) of the 
     Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2228 note) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``shall be the senior official'' and 
     inserting ``shall be a senior official''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``Each 
     individual so designated shall be a senior civilian employee 
     of the military department concerned in pay grade GS-15 or 
     higher.''.
       (b) Qualifications.--Section 903 of the Duncan Hunter 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
     (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2228 note) is further 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
     subsection (b):
       ``(b) Qualifications.--Any individual designated as a 
     corrosion control and prevention executive of a military 
     department pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
       ``(1) have a working knowledge of corrosion prevention and 
     control;
       ``(2) have strong program management and communication 
     skills; and
       ``(3) understand the acquisition, research, development, 
     test, and evaluation, and sustainment policies and procedures 
     of the military department, including for the sustainment of 
     infrastructure.''.

     SEC. 925. BACKGROUND AND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS FOR 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL.

       (a) Transition To Discharge by Defense Security Service.--
       (1) Secretarial authority.--The Secretary of Defense has 
     the authority to conduct security, suitability, and 
     credentialing background investigations for Department of 
     Defense personnel. In carrying out such authority, the 
     Secretary may use such authority, or may delegate such 
     authority to another entity.
       (2) Phased transition.--As part of providing for the 
     conduct of background investigations initiated by the 
     Department of Defense through the Defense Security Service by 
     not later than the deadline specified in subsection (b), the 
     Secretary shall, in consultation with the Director of the 
     Office of Personnel Management, provide for a phased 
     transition from the conduct of such investigations by the 
     National Background Investigations Bureau of the Office of 
     Personnel Management to the conduct of such investigations by 
     the Defense Security Service by that deadline.
       (3) Transition elements.--The phased transition required by 
     paragraph (2) shall--
       (A) provide for the transition of the conduct of 
     investigations to the Defense Security Service using a risk 
     management approach; and
       (B) be consistent with the transition from legacy 
     information technology operated by the Office of Personnel 
     Management to the new information technology, including the 
     National Background Investigations System, as described in 
     subsection (f).
       (b) Commencement of Implementation Plan for Ongoing 
     Discharge of Investigations Through DSS.--Not later than 
     October 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall commence 
     carrying out the implementation plan developed pursuant to 
     section 951(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2371; 10 
     U.S.C. 1564 note).
       (c) Transfer of Certain Functions Within DoD to DSS.--
       (1) Transfer required.--For purposes of meeting the 
     requirements in subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of 
     Defense shall transfer to the Defense Security Service the 
     functions, personnel, and associated resources of the 
     following organizations:
       (A) The Consolidated Adjudications Facility.
       (B) Other organizations identified by the Secretary for 
     purposes of this paragraph.
       (2) Supporting organizations.--In addition to the 
     organizations identified pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
     following organizations shall prioritize resources to 
     directly support the execution of requirements in subsections 
     (a) and (b):
       (A) The Office of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation.
       (B) The Defense Digital Service.
       (C) Other organizations designated by the Secretary for 
     purposes of this paragraph.
       (3) Timing and manner of transfer.--The Secretary--
       (A) may carry out the transfer required by paragraph (1) at 
     any time before the date specified in subsection (b) that the 
     Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of this section; 
     and
       (B) shall carry out the transfer in a manner designed to 
     minimize disruptions to the conduct of background 
     investigations for personnel of the Department of Defense.
       (d) Transfer of Certain Functions in OPM to DSS.--
       (1) In general.--For purposes of meeting the requirements 
     in subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide for the transfer of the functions described in 
     paragraph (2), and any associated personnel and resources, to 
     the Department of Defense.
       (2) Functions.--The functions to be transferred pursuant to 
     paragraph (1) are the following:
       (A) Any personnel security investigations functions 
     transferred by the Secretary to the Director of the Office of 
     Personnel Management pursuant to section 906 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 
     108-136; 5 U.S.C. 1101 note).
       (B) Any other functions of the Office of Personnel 
     Management in connection with background investigations 
     initiated by the Department of Defense that the Secretary and 
     the Director jointly consider appropriate.
       (3) Assessment.--In carrying out the transfer of functions 
     pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall conduct a 
     comprehensive assessment of workforce requirements for both 
     the Department of Defense and the National Background 
     Investigations Bureau synchronized to the transition plan, 
     including a forecast of workforce needs across the current 
     future-years defense plan for the Department. Not later than 
     180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report containing the results of the assessment.
       (4) Consultation.--The Secretary shall carry out paragraphs 
     (1), (2), and (3) in consultation with the Director of the 
     Office of Personnel Management and the Director of the Office 
     of Management and Budget.
       (5) Location within dod.--Any functions transferred to the 
     Department of Defense pursuant to this subsection shall be 
     located within the Defense Security Service.
       (e) Conduct of Certain Actions.--For purposes of the 
     conduct of background investigations following the 
     commencement of carrying out the implementation plan referred 
     to in subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
     for the following:
       (1) A single capability for the centralized funding, 
     submissions, and processing of all background investigations, 
     from within the Defense Security Service.
       (2) The discharge by the Consolidated Adjudications 
     Facility, from within the Defense Security Service pursuant 
     to transfer under subsection (c), of adjudications in 
     connection with the following:
       (A) Background investigations.
       (B) Continuous evaluation and vetting checks.
       (f) Enhancement of Information Technology Capabilities of 
     NBIS.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
     review of the information technology capabilities of the 
     National Background Investigations System in order to 
     determine whether enhancements to such capabilities are 
     required for the following:
       (A) Support for background investigations pursuant to this 
     section and section 951 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2371; 
     10 U.S.C. 1564 note).
       (B) Support of the National Background Investigations 
     Bureau.
       (C) Execution of the conduct of background investigations 
     initiated by the Department of Defense pursuant to this 
     section, including submissions and adjudications.
       (2) Common component.--In providing for the transition and 
     operation of the National Background Investigations System as 
     described in paragraph (1)(C), the Secretary shall develop a 
     common component of the System usable for background 
     investigations by both the Defense Security Service and the 
     National Background Investigations Bureau.
       (3) Enhancements.--If the review pursuant to paragraph (1) 
     determines that enhancements described in that paragraph are 
     required, the Secretary shall carry out such enhancements.
       (4) Consultation.--The Secretary shall carry out this 
     subsection in consultation with the Director of the Office of 
     Personnel Management.
       (g) Use of Certain Private Industry Data.--In carrying out 
     background and security investigations pursuant to this 
     section and section 951 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2371; 
     10 U.S.C. 1564 note), the Secretary of Defense may use 
     background materials collected on individuals by the private 
     sector, in accordance with national policies and standards, 
     that are applicable to such investigations, including 
     materials as follows:
       (1) Financial information, including credit scores and 
     credit status.
       (2) Criminal records.
       (3) Drug screening.
       (4) Verifications of information on resumes and employment 
     applications, such as previous employers, educational 
     achievement, and educational institutions attended.

[[Page H8772]]

       (5) Other publicly available electronic information.
       (h) Security Clearances for Contractor Personnel.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall review the 
     requirements of the Department of Defense relating to 
     position sensitivity designations for contractor personnel in 
     order to determine whether such requirements may be 
     reassessed or modified to reduce the number and range of 
     contractor personnel who are issued security clearances in 
     connection with work under contracts with the Department.
       (2) Guidance.--The Secretary shall issue guidance to 
     program managers, contracting officers, and security 
     personnel of the Department specifying requirements for the 
     review of contractor position sensitivity designations and 
     the number of contractor personnel of the Department who are 
     issued security clearances for the purposes of determining 
     whether the number of such personnel who are issued security 
     clearances should and can be reduced.
       (i) Personnel To Support the Transfer of Functions.--The 
     Secretary of Defense shall authorize the Director of the 
     Defense Security Service to promptly increase the number of 
     personnel of the Defense Security Service for the purpose of 
     beginning the establishment and expansion of investigative 
     capacity to support the phased transfer of investigative 
     functions from the Office of Personnel Management to the 
     Department of Defense under this section. The Director of 
     Cost Analysis and Program Assessment shall advise the 
     Secretary on the size of the initial investigative workforce 
     and the rate of growth of that workforce.
       (j) Report on Future Periodic Reinvestigations, Insider 
     Threat, and Continuous Vetting.--
       (1) Report required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     that includes the following:
       (A) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
     periodic reinvestigations of backgrounds of Government and 
     contractor personnel with security clearances, including 
     lessons from all of the continuous evaluation pilots being 
     conducted throughout the Government, and identification of 
     new or additional data sources and data analytic tools needed 
     for improving current continuous evaluation or vetting 
     capabilities.
       (B) A plan to provide the Government with an enhanced risk 
     management model that reduces the gaps in coverage 
     perpetuated by the current time-based periodic 
     reinvestigations model, particularly in light of the 
     increasing use of continuous background evaluations of 
     personnel referred to in subparagraph (A).
       (C) A plan for expanding continuous background vetting 
     capabilities, such as the Installation Matching Engine for 
     Security and Analysis, to the broader population, including 
     those at the lowest tiers and levels of access, which plan 
     shall include details to ensure that all individuals 
     credentialed for physical access to Department of Defense 
     facilities and installations are vetted to the same level of 
     fitness determinations and subject to appropriate continuous 
     vetting.
       (D) A plan to fully integrate and incorporate insider 
     threat data, tools, and capabilities into the new end-to-end 
     vetting processes and supporting information technology 
     established by the Defense Security Service to ensure a 
     holistic and transformational approach to detecting, 
     deterring, and mitigating threats posed by trusted insiders.
       (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare the report 
     under paragraph (1) in consultation with the Director of 
     National Intelligence and the Director of the Office of 
     Personnel Management.
       (k) Quarterly and Annual Briefings and Reports.--
       (1) Annual assessment of timeliness.--Not later than 
     December 31, 2018, and each December 31 thereafter through 
     the date specified in paragraph (4), the Security Executive 
     Agent, in coordination with the Chair and other Principals of 
     the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing Performance 
     Accountability Council, shall submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress a report on the timeliness of 
     personnel security clearance initiations, investigations, and 
     adjudications, by clearance level, for both initial 
     investigations and periodic reinvestigations during the prior 
     fiscal year for Government and contractor employees, 
     including the following:
       (A) The average periods of time taken by each authorized 
     investigative agency and authorized adjudicative agency to 
     initiate cases, conduct investigations, and adjudicate cases 
     as compared with established timeliness objectives, from the 
     date a completed security clearance application is received 
     to the date of adjudication and notification to the subject 
     and the subject's employer.
       (B) The number of initial investigations and periodic 
     reinvestigations initiated and adjudicated by each authorized 
     adjudicative agency.
       (C) The number of initial investigations and periodic 
     reinvestigations carried over from prior fiscal years by each 
     authorized investigative and adjudicative agency.
       (D) The number of initial investigations and periodic 
     reinvestigations that resulted in a denial or revocation of a 
     security clearance by each authorized adjudicative agency.
       (E) The costs to the executive branch related to personnel 
     security clearance initiations, investigations, 
     adjudications, revocations, and continuous evaluation.
       (F) A discussion of any impediments to the timely 
     processing of personnel security clearances.
       (G) The number of clearance holders enrolled in continuous 
     evaluation and the numbers and types of adverse actions taken 
     as a result by each authorized adjudicative agency.
       (H) The number of personnel security clearance cases, both 
     initial investigations and periodic reinvestigations, 
     awaiting or under investigation by the National Background 
     Investigations Bureau.
       (I) Other information as appropriate, including any 
     recommendations to improve the timeliness and efficiency of 
     personnel security clearance initiations, investigations, and 
     adjudications.
       (2) Quarterly briefings.--Not later than the end of each 
     calendar-year quarter beginning after January 1, 2018, 
     through the date specified in paragraph (4), the Secretary of 
     Defense shall provide the appropriate congressional 
     committees a briefing on the progress of the Secretary in 
     carrying out the requirements of this section during that 
     calendar-year quarter. Until the backlog of security 
     clearance applications at the National Background 
     Investigations Bureau is eliminated, each quarterly briefing 
     shall also include the current status of the backlog and the 
     resulting mission and resource impact to the Department of 
     Defense and the defense industrial base. Until the phased 
     transition described in subsection (a) is complete, each 
     quarterly briefing shall also include identification of any 
     resources planned for movement from the National Background 
     Investigations Bureau to the Department of Defense during the 
     next calendar-year quarter.
       (3) Annual reports.--Not later than December 31, 2018, and 
     each December 31 thereafter through the date specified in 
     paragraph (4), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
     following for the calendar year in which the report is to be 
     submitted:
       (A) The status of the Secretary in meeting the requirements 
     in subsections (a), (b), and (c).
       (B) The status of any transfers to be carried out pursuant 
     to subsection (d).
       (C) An assessment of the personnel security capabilities of 
     the Department of Defense.
       (D) The average periods of time taken by each authorized 
     investigative agency and authorized adjudicative agency to 
     initiate cases, conduct investigations, and adjudicate cases 
     as compared with established timeliness objectives, from the 
     date a completed security clearance application is received 
     to the date of adjudication and notification to the subject 
     and the subject's employer.
       (E) The number of initial investigations and periodic 
     reinvestigations initiated and adjudicated by each authorized 
     adjudicative agency.
       (F) The number of initial investigations and periodic 
     reinvestigations carried over from prior fiscal years by each 
     authorized investigative and adjudicative agency.
       (G) The number of initial investigations and periodic 
     reinvestigations that resulted in a denial or revocation of a 
     security clearance by each authorized adjudicative agency.
       (H) The costs to the Department of Defense related to 
     personnel security clearance initiations, investigations, 
     adjudications, revocations, and continuous evaluation.
       (I) A discussion of any impediments to the timely 
     processing of personnel security clearances.
       (J) The number of clearance holders enrolled in continuous 
     evaluation and the numbers and types of adverse actions taken 
     as a result.
       (K) The number of personnel security clearance cases, both 
     initial investigations and periodic reinvestigations, 
     awaiting or under investigation by the National Background 
     Investigations Bureau.
       (L) Other information that the Secretary considers 
     appropriate, including any recommendations to improve the 
     timeliness and efficiency of personnel security clearance 
     initiations, investigations, and adjudications.
       (4) Termination.--No briefing or report is required under 
     this subsection after December 31, 2021.
       (l) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committees on Armed Services, Appropriations, 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committees on Armed Services, Appropriations, 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and the Permanent Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

            Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

     SEC. 931. ADDITIONAL ELEMENTS IN REPORTS ON POLICY, 
                   ORGANIZATION, AND MANAGEMENT GOALS OF THE 
                   SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       Section 912(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2349) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(D) A civilian operating force structure sized for 
     operational effectiveness that is manned, equipped, and 
     trained to support deployment time and rotation ratios that 
     sustain the readiness and needed retention levels of the 
     regular and reserve components of the Armed Forces.
       ``(E) The hiring authorities and other actions that the 
     Secretary of Defense or the Secretaries of the military 
     departments will take to eliminate any gaps between desired 
     programmed civilian workforce levels and the current size of 
     the civilian workforce, set forth by mission and functional 
     area.''.

     SEC. 932. REPORT AND SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RESPONSIBILITY FOR 
                   DEVELOPMENTAL TEST AND EVALUATION WITHIN THE 
                   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Report on Plans to Address Developmental Test and 
     Evaluation Responsibilities Within the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense.--

[[Page H8773]]

       (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a report containing a strategy 
     to ensure that there is sufficient expertise, oversight, and 
     policy direction on developmental test and evaluation within 
     the Office of the Secretary of Defense after the completion 
     of the reorganization of such Office required under section 
     901 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2339).
       (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     address the following:
       (A) The structure of the roles and responsibilities of the 
     senior Department of Defense official responsible for 
     developmental test and evaluation, as distinct from 
     operational test and evaluation or systems engineering.
       (B) The location of the senior Department of Defense 
     official responsible for developmental test and evaluation 
     within the organizational structure of the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense.
       (C) An estimate of personnel and other resources that 
     should be made available to the senior Department of Defense 
     official responsible for developmental test and evaluation to 
     ensure that such official can provide independent expertise, 
     oversight, and policy direction and guidance Department of 
     Defense-wide.
       (D) Methods to ensure that the senior Department of Defense 
     official responsible for developmental test and evaluation 
     will be empowered to facilitate Department of Defense-wide 
     efficiencies by helping programs to optimize test designs and 
     activities, including ensuring access to program data and 
     participation in acquisition program oversight.
       (E) Methods to ensure that an advocate for test and 
     evaluation workforce will continue to exist within the 
     acquisition workforce.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) developmental testing is critical to reducing 
     acquisition program risk by providing valuable information to 
     support sound decision making;
       (2) major defense acquisition programs often do not conduct 
     enough developmental testing, so too many problems are first 
     identified during operational testing, when they are 
     expensive and time-consuming to fix; and
       (3) in order to ensure that effective developmental testing 
     is conducted on major defense acquisition programs, the 
     Secretary of Defense should--
       (A) carefully consider where the senior Department of 
     Defense official responsible for developmental test and 
     evaluation is located within the organizational structure of 
     the Office of the Secretary of Defense; and
       (B) ensure that such official has sufficient authority and 
     resources to provide oversight and policy direction on 
     developmental test and evaluation Department of Defense-wide.

     SEC. 933. REPORT ON OFFICE OF CORROSION POLICY AND OVERSIGHT.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a report--
       (1) evaluating the continued need for the Office of 
     Corrosion Policy and Oversight; and
       (2) containing a recommendation regarding whether to retain 
     or terminate the Office.
       (b) Assessment.--As part of the report required by 
     subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
     assessment to determine whether there is duplication in 
     matters relating to corrosion prevention and control and 
     mitigation of corrosion of the military equipment and 
     infrastructure of the Department of Defense between the 
     Office of Corrosion Policy and Oversight and other elements 
     of the Department, including, in particular, the Corrosion 
     Control and Prevention Executives of the military 
     departments.
       (c) Recommendation.--If the report required by subsection 
     (a) includes a recommendation to terminate the Office of 
     Corrosion Policy and Oversight, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall include recommendations for such additional 
     authorities, if any, for the military departments and the 
     Armed Forces as the Secretary considers appropriate to ensure 
     the proper discharge by the Department of Defense of 
     functions relating to corrosion prevention and control and 
     mitigation of corrosion in the absence of the Office.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

     SEC. 941. COMMISSION ON THE NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY FOR THE 
                   UNITED STATES.

       (a) Extension of Deadlines for Reporting and Briefing 
     Requirements.--Section 942(e) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2368) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 1, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``July 1, 2018''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``June 1, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``March 1, 2018''.
       (b) Treatment of Commission.--Section 942 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2368) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(h) Legislative Advisory Committee.--The Commission shall 
     operate as a legislative advisory committee and shall not be 
     subject to the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee 
     Act (Public Law 92-463; 5 U.S.C. App.) or section 552b of 
     title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Government 
     in the Sunshine Act).''.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Consolidation, codification, and improvement of certain 
              authorities and requirements in connection with the audit 
              of the financial statements of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1003. Improper payment matters.
Sec. 1004. Rankings of auditability of financial statements of the 
              organizations and elements of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1005. Financial operations dashboard for the Department of 
              Defense.
Sec. 1006. Review and recommendations on efforts to obtain audit 
              opinion on full financial statements.
Sec. 1007. Notification requirement for certain contracts for audit 
              services.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1011. Extension of authority to support a unified counterdrug and 
              counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1012. Venue for prosecution of maritime drug trafficking.

                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1022. Use of National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund for multiyear 
              procurement of certain critical components.
Sec. 1023. Operational readiness of littoral combat ships on extended 
              deployment.
Sec. 1024. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
              Ticonderoga-class cruisers or dock landing ships.
Sec. 1025. Policy of the United States on minimum number of battle 
              force ships.
Sec. 1026. Surveying ships.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Modification of authority on support of special operations 
              to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1032. Termination of requirement to submit annual budget 
              justification display for Department of Defense combating 
              terrorism program.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
              individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
              Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States.
Sec. 1034. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify 
              facilities in the United States to house detainees 
              transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
              Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1035. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
              individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
              Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to certain countries.
Sec. 1036. Prohibition on use of funds to close or relinquish control 
              of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1037. Sense of Congress regarding providing for timely victim and 
              family testimony in military commission trials.
Sec. 1038. Report on public availability of military commissions 
              proceedings.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. Limitation on expenditure of funds for emergency and 
              extraordinary expenses for intelligence and counter-
              intelligence activities.
Sec. 1042. Matters relating to the submittal of future-years defense 
              programs.
Sec. 1043. Modifications to humanitarian demining assistance 
              authorities.
Sec. 1044. Prohibition on charge of certain tariffs on aircraft 
              traveling through channel routes.
Sec. 1045. Prohibition on lobbying activities with respect to the 
              Department of Defense by certain officers of the Armed 
              Forces and civilian employees of the Department following 
              separation from military service or employment with the 
              Department.
Sec. 1046. Prohibition on use of funds for retirement of legacy 
              maritime mine countermeasures platforms.
Sec. 1047. Report on western Pacific Ocean ship depot maintenance 
              capability and capacity.
Sec. 1048. Annual training regarding the influence campaign of the 
              Russian Federation.
Sec. 1049. Workforce issues for military realignments in the Pacific.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1051. Elimination of reporting requirements terminated after 
              November 25, 2017, pursuant to section 1080 of the 
              National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.
Sec. 1052. Report on transfer of defense articles to units committing 
              gross violations of human rights.
Sec. 1053. Report on the National Biodefense Analysis and 
              Countermeasures Center.
Sec. 1054. Report on Department of Defense Arctic capability and 
              resource gaps and required infrastructure.
Sec. 1055. Review and assessment of Department of Defense personnel 
              recovery and nonconventional assisted recovery 
              mechanisms.
Sec. 1056. Mine warfare readiness inspection plan and report.
Sec. 1057. Annual report on civilian casualties in connection with 
              United States military operations.
Sec. 1058. Report on Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex modernization.
Sec. 1059. Report on alternatives to aqueous film forming foam.
Sec. 1060. Assessment of global force posture.

[[Page H8774]]

Sec. 1061. Army modernization strategy.
Sec. 1062. Report on Army plan to improve operational unit readiness by 
              reducing number of non-deployable soldiers assigned to 
              operational units.
Sec. 1063. Efforts to combat physiological episodes on certain Navy 
              aircraft.
Sec. 1064. Studies on aircraft inventories for the Air Force.
Sec. 1065. Department of Defense review of Navy capabilities in the 
              Arctic region.
Sec. 1066. Comprehensive review of maritime intelligence, surveillance, 
              reconnaissance, and targeting capabilities.
Sec. 1067. Report on the need for a Joint Chemical-Biological Defense 
              Logistics Center.
Sec. 1068. Missile Technology Control Regime Category I unmanned aerial 
              vehicle systems.
Sec. 1069. Recommendations for interagency vetting of foreign 
              investments affecting national security.
Sec. 1070. Briefing on prior attempted Russian cyber attacks against 
              defense systems.
Sec. 1071. Enhanced analytical and monitoring capability of the defense 
              industrial base.
Sec. 1072. Report on defense of combat logistics and strategic mobility 
              forces.
Sec. 1073. Report on acquisition strategy to recapitalize the existing 
              system for undersea fixed surveillance.
Sec. 1074. Report on implementation of requirements in connection with 
              the organization of the Department of Defense for 
              management of special operations forces and special 
              operations.
Sec. 1075. Report on the global food system and vulnerabilities 
              relevant to Department of Defense missions.

             Subtitle G--Modernizing Government Technology

Sec. 1076. Definitions.
Sec. 1077. Establishment of agency information technology systems 
              modernization and working capital funds.
Sec. 1078. Establishment of technology modernization fund and board.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Technical, conforming, and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1082. Clarification of applicability of certain provisions of law 
              to civilian judges of the United States Court of Military 
              Commission Review.
Sec. 1083. Modification of requirement relating to conversion of 
              certain military technician (dual status) positions to 
              civilian positions.
Sec. 1084. National Guard accessibility to Department of Defense issued 
              unmanned aircraft.
Sec. 1085. Sense of Congress regarding aircraft carriers.
Sec. 1086. Sense of Congress recognizing the United States Navy 
              Seabees.
Sec. 1087. Construction of memorial to the crew of the Apollo I launch 
              test accident at Arlington National Cemetery.
Sec. 1088. Department of Defense engagement with covered non-Federal 
              entities.
Sec. 1089. Prize competition to identify root cause of physiological 
              episodes on Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force training 
              and operational aircraft.
Sec. 1090. Providing assistance to House of Representatives in response 
              to cybersecurity events.
Sec. 1091. Transfer of surplus firearms to Corporation for the 
              Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety.
Sec. 1092. Collaboration between Federal Aviation Administration and 
              Department of Defense on unmanned aircraft systems.
Sec. 1093. Carriage of certain programming.
Sec. 1094. National strategy for countering violent extremism.
Sec. 1095. Sense of Congress regarding World War I.
Sec. 1096. Notice to Congress of terms of Department of Defense 
              settlement agreements.
Sec. 1097. Office of Special Counsel reauthorization.
Sec. 1098. Air transportation of civilian Department of Defense 
              personnel to and from Afghanistan.

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

     SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

       (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
       (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
     Defense that such action is necessary in the national 
     interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of 
     authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in 
     this division for fiscal year 2018 between any such 
     authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions 
     thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be 
     merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
     authorization to which transferred.
       (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
     total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may 
     transfer under the authority of this section may not exceed 
     $4,500,000,000.
       (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
     authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military 
     personnel authorizations under title IV shall not be counted 
     toward the dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
       (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) 
     to transfer authorizations--
       (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that 
     have a higher priority than the items from which authority is 
     transferred; and
       (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
     has been denied authorization by Congress.
       (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from 
     one account to another under the authority of this section 
     shall be deemed to increase the amount authorized for the 
     account to which the amount is transferred by an amount equal 
     to the amount transferred.
       (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly 
     notify Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).

     SEC. 1002. CONSOLIDATION, CODIFICATION, AND IMPROVEMENT OF 
                   CERTAIN AUTHORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS IN 
                   CONNECTION WITH THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL 
                   STATEMENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Establishment of New Chapter on Audit.--
       (1) In general.--Part I of subtitle A of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 9 the 
     following new chapter:

                          ``CHAPTER 9A--AUDIT

``Sec.
``251. Audit of Department of Defense financial statements.
``252. Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan.
``253. Audit: consolidated corrective action plan; centralized 
              reporting system.
``254. Audits: audit of financial statements of Department of Defense 
              components by independent external auditors.
``254a. Audits: use of commercial data integration and analysis 
              products in preparing audits.
``254b. Audits: selection of service providers for audit services.''.
       (2) Clerical amendments.--The tables of chapters at the 
     beginning of subtitle A of title 10, United States Code, and 
     part I of such subtitle, are each amended by inserting after 
     the item relating to chapter 9 the following new item:

``9A. Audit..................................................251''.....

       (b) Requirement for Audit of Financial Statements.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 9A of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by subsection (a), is amended by inserting 
     after the table of sections a new section 251 as follows:

     ``Sec. 251. Audit of Department of Defense financial 
       statements

       ``(a) Annual Audit Required.--The Secretary of Defense 
     shall ensure that a full audit is performed on the financial 
     statements of the Department of Defense for each fiscal year 
     as required by section 3521(e) of title 31.
       ``(b) Annual Report on Audit.--The Secretary shall submit 
     to Congress the results of the audit performed in accordance 
     with subsection (a) for a fiscal year by not later than March 
     31 of the following fiscal year.''.
       (2) Conforming repeal.--Section 1003 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
     113-66; 127 Stat. 842; 10 U.S.C. 2222 note) is repealed.
       (c) Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 9A of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added and amended by this section, is further 
     amended by inserting after section 251, as added by 
     subsection (b), a new section 252 consisting of--
       (A) a heading as follows:

     ``Sec. 252. Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation 
       Plan''; and

       (B) a text consisting subsection (a) of section 1003 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 
     U.S.C. 2222 note).
       (2) Amendments in connection with codification.--Subsection 
     (a) of section 252 of title 10, United States Code, as added 
     by paragraph (1), is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``develop and''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``of title 10, United 
     States Code'' and inserting ``of this title''.
       (3) Improvements.--Such section 252, as added and amended 
     by this subsection, is further amended--
       (A) in the subsection headings for subsection (a), by 
     striking ``Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness Plan'' 
     and inserting ``Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation 
     Plan'';
       (B) in subsection (a)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Financial Improvement 
     and Audit Readiness Plan'' and inserting ``Financial 
     Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2)--

       (I) in subparagraph (A)--

       (aa) by striking the matter preceding clause (i) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(A) describe specific actions to be taken, including 
     interim milestones with a detailed description of the 
     subordinate activities required, and estimate the costs 
     associated with--'';
       (bb) in clause (ii), by striking ``are validated as ready 
     for audit'' and all that follows and inserting ``go under 
     full financial statement audit, and that the Department 
     leadership makes every effort to reach an unmodified opinion 
     as soon as possible;''; and
       (cc) by adding at the end the following new clauses:
       ``(iii) achieving an unqualified audit opinion for each 
     major element of the statement of budgetary resources of the 
     Department of Defense; and
       ``(iv) addressing the existence and completeness of each 
     major category of Department of Defense assets; and'';

[[Page H8775]]

       (II) in subparagraph (B)--

       (aa) by inserting ``business'' before ``process and 
     control'';
       (bb) by striking ``the business enterprise architecture and 
     transition plan required by''; and
       (cc) by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting a 
     period; and

       (III) by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D); and

       (C) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
     subsection (b):
       ``(b) Report and Briefing Requirements.--
       ``(1) Annual report.--
       ``(A) In general.--Not later than June 30, 2019, and 
     annually thereafter, the Under Secretary of Defense 
     (Comptroller) shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report on the status of the implementation by 
     the Department of Defense of the Financial Improvement and 
     Audit Remediation Plan under subsection (a).
       ``(B) Elements.--Each report under subparagraph (A) shall 
     include the following:
       ``(i) An analysis of the consolidated corrective action 
     plan management summary prepared pursuant to section 253a of 
     this title.
       ``(ii) Current Department of Defense-wide information on 
     the status of corrective actions plans related to critical 
     capabilities and material weaknesses, including the standard 
     data elements recommended in the implementation guide for 
     Office of Management and Budget Circular A-123, for the armed 
     forces, military departments, and Defense Agencies.
       ``(iii) A current description of the work undertaken and 
     planned to be undertaken by the Department of Defense, and 
     the military departments, Defense Agencies, and other 
     organizations and elements of the Department, to test and 
     verify transaction data pertinent to obtaining an unqualified 
     audit of their financial statements, including from feeder 
     systems.
       ``(iv) A current projected timeline of the Department in 
     connection with the audit of the full financial statements of 
     the Department, to be submitted to Congress annually not 
     later than six months after the submittal to Congress of the 
     budget of the President for a fiscal year under section 1105 
     of title 31, including the following:

       ``(I) The date on which the Department projects the 
     beginning of an audit of the full financial statements of the 
     Department, and the military departments, Defense Agencies, 
     and other organizations and elements of the Department, for a 
     fiscal year.
       ``(II) The date on which the Department projects the 
     completions of audits of the full financial statements of the 
     Department, and the military departments, Defense Agencies, 
     and other organizations and elements of the Department, for a 
     fiscal year.
       ``(III) The dates on which the Department estimates it will 
     obtain an unqualified audit opinion on the full financial 
     statements of the Department, the military departments, the 
     Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the 
     Department for a fiscal year.

       ``(v) A current estimate of the anticipated annual costs of 
     maintaining an unqualified audit opinion on the full 
     financial statements of the Department, the military 
     departments, the Defense Agencies, and other organizations 
     and elements of the Department for a fiscal year after an 
     unqualified audit opinion on such full financial statements 
     for a fiscal year is first obtained.
       ``(vi) A certification of the results of the audit of the 
     financial statements of the Department performed for the 
     preceding fiscal year, and a statement summarizing, based on 
     such results, the current condition of the financial 
     statements of the Department.
       ``(2) Semiannual briefings.--Not later than January 31 and 
     June 30 each year, the Under Secretary of Defense 
     (Comptroller) and the comptrollers of the military 
     departments shall provide a briefing to the congressional 
     defense committees on the status of the corrective action 
     plan.
       ``(3) Critical capabilities defined.--In this subsection, 
     the term `critical capabilities' means the critical 
     capabilities described in the Department of Defense report 
     titled `Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness (FIAR) Plan 
     Status Report' and dated May 2016.''.
       (4) Conforming repeal.--Section 1003 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 is repealed.
       (d) Consolidated Corrective Action Plan.--Chapter 9A of 
     title 10, United States Code, as added and amended by this 
     section, is further amended by adding after section 252, as 
     added and amended by subsection (c), a new section 253 
     consisting of--
       (1) a heading as follows:

     ``Sec. 253. Audit: consolidated corrective action plan; 
       centralized reporting system''; and

       (2) a text as follows:
       ``The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall--
       ``(1) on a bimonthly basis, prepare a consolidated 
     corrective action plan management summary on the status of 
     key corrective actions plans related to critical capabilities 
     for the armed forces and for the components of the Department 
     of Defense that support the armed forces; and
       ``(2) develop and maintain a centralized monitoring and 
     reporting process that captures and maintains up-to-date 
     information, including the standard data elements recommended 
     in the implementation guide for Office of Management and 
     Budget Circular A-123, for key corrective action plans and 
     findings and recommendations Department-wide that pertain to 
     critical capabilities.''.
       (e) Audit of DoD Components by Independent External 
     Auditors.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 9A of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added and amended by this section, is further 
     amended by adding after section 253, as added and amended by 
     subsection (d), a new section 254 consisting of--
       (A) a heading as follows:

     ``Sec. 254. Audits: audit of financial statements of 
       Department of Defense components by independent external 
       auditors''; and

       (B) a text consisting of the text of section 1005 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 861; 10 U.S.C. 2222 note).
       (2) Amendments in connection with codification.--Section 
     254 of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph 
     (1), is further amended--
       (A) in subsections (d)(1)(A) and (e)(3), by striking ``, 
     United States Code''; and
       (B) in subsections (a) and (e)(2), by striking ``, United 
     States Code,''.
       (3) Improvements.--Such section 254, as added and amended 
     by this subsection, is further amended--
       (A) in subsection (d)(1)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and the Chief 
     Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' before the 
     semicolon;
       (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (iii) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph 
     (D); and
       (iv) by inserting after subparagraph (B), the following new 
     subparagraph (C):
       ``(C) the head of each component audited; and''; and
       (B) in subsection (e)--
       (i) by striking paragraph (1); and
       (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
     (1) and (2), respectively.
       (4) Conforming repeal.--Section 1005 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 is repealed.
       (f) Use of Commercial Data Integration and Analysis 
     Products.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 9A of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added and amended by this section, is further 
     amended by adding after section 254, as added and amended by 
     subsection (e), a new section 254a consisting of--
       (A) a heading as follows:

     ``Sec. 254a. Audits: use of commercial data integration and 
       analysis products in preparing audits''; and

       (B) a text consisting of subsections (a) and (b) of section 
     1003 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2380; 10 U.S.C. 2222 
     note).
       (2) Amendments in connection with codification.--Section 
     254a of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph 
     (1), is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)--
       (i) by striking ``of title 10, United States Code,'' and 
     inserting ``of this title''; and
       (ii) by striking ``, as soon as practicable,''; and
       (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``this deployment'' and 
     inserting ``deployment of technologies and services as 
     described in subsection (a)''.
       (3) Conforming repeal.--Section 1003 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 is repealed.
       (g) Selection of Service Providers for Audit Services.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 9A of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added and amended by this section, is further 
     amended by adding after section 254a, as added and amended by 
     subsection (f), a new section 254b consisting of--
       (A) a heading as follows:

     ``Sec. 254b. Audits: selection of service providers for audit 
       services''; and

       (B) a text consisting of the text of section 892 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2324; 10 U.S.C. 2331 note).
       (2) Improvement.--Section 254b of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by paragraph (1), is amended by striking ``and 
     audit readiness services''.
       (3) Conforming repeal.--Section 892 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 is repealed.
       (h) Repeal of Certain Requirements in Connection With 
     Reliability of DoD Financial Statements.--Section 1008 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (10 
     U.S.C. 113 note) is amended by striking subsections (d), (e), 
     and (f).

     SEC. 1003. IMPROPER PAYMENT MATTERS.

       Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
     Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense 
     (Comptroller) shall take the following actions:
       (1) With regard to estimating improper payments:
       (A) Establish and implement key quality assurance 
     procedures, such as reconciliations, to ensure the 
     completeness and accuracy of sampled populations.
       (B) Revise the procedures for the sampling methodologies of 
     the Department of Defense so that such procedures--
       (i) comply with Office of Management and Budget guidance 
     and generally accepted statistical standards;
       (ii) produce statistically valid improper payment error 
     rates, statistically valid improper payment dollar estimates, 
     and appropriate confidence intervals for both; and
       (iii) in meeting clauses (i) and (ii), take into account 
     the size and complexity of the transactions being sampled.
       (2) With regard to identifying programs susceptible to 
     significant improper payments, conduct a risk assessment that 
     complies with the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery 
     Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-204) and the amendments made by 
     that Act (in this section collectively referred to as 
     ``IPERA'').
       (3) With regard to reducing improper payments, establish 
     procedures that produce corrective action plans that--

[[Page H8776]]

       (A) comply fully with IPERA and associated Office of 
     Management and Budget guidance, including by holding 
     individuals responsible for implementing corrective actions 
     and monitoring the status of corrective actions; and
       (B) are in accordance with best practices, such as those 
     recommended by the Chief Financial Officers Council, 
     including by providing for--
       (i) measurement of the progress made toward remediating 
     root causes of improper payments; and
       (ii) communication to the Secretary of Defense and the 
     heads of departments, agencies, and organizations and 
     elements of the Department of Defense, and key stakeholders, 
     on the progress made toward remediating the root causes of 
     improper payments.
       (4) With regard to implementing recovery audits for 
     improper payments, develop and implement procedures to--
       (A) identify costs related to the recovery audits and 
     recovery efforts of the Department of Defense; and
       (B) evaluate improper payment recovery efforts in order to 
     ensure that they are cost effective.
       (5) Monitor the implementation of the revised chapter of 
     the Financial Management Regulations on recovery audits in 
     order to ensure that the Department of Defense, the military 
     departments, the Defense Agencies, and the other 
     organizations and elements of the Department of Defense 
     either conduct recovery audits or demonstrate that it is not 
     cost effective to do so.
       (6) Develop and submit to the Office of Management and 
     Budget for approval a payment recapture audit plan that fully 
     complies with Office of Management and Budget guidance.
       (7) With regard to reporting on improper payments, design 
     and implement procedures to ensure that the annual improper 
     payment and recovery audit reporting of the Department of 
     Defense is complete, accurate, and complies with IPERA and 
     associated Office of Management and Budget guidance.

     SEC. 1004. RANKINGS OF AUDITABILITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
                   OF THE ORGANIZATIONS AND ELEMENTS OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination 
     with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), submit to 
     the congressional defense committees a report setting forth a 
     ranking of the auditability of the financial statements of 
     the departments, agencies, organizations, and elements of the 
     Department of Defense according to the progress made toward 
     achieving auditability as required by law. The Under 
     Secretary shall determine the criteria to be used for 
     purposes of the rankings.

     SEC. 1005. FINANCIAL OPERATIONS DASHBOARD FOR THE DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE.

       (a) In General.--The Under Secretary of Defense 
     (Comptroller) shall develop and maintain on an Internet 
     website available to Department of Defense agencies a tool 
     (commonly referred to as a ``dashboard)'' to permit officials 
     to track key indicators of the financial performance of the 
     Department of Defense. Such key indicators may include 
     outstanding accounts payable, abnormal accounts payable, 
     outstanding advances, unmatched disbursements, abnormal 
     undelivered orders, negative unliquidated obligations, 
     violations of sections 1341 and 1517(a) of title 31, United 
     States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Anti-Deficiency 
     Act''), costs deriving from payment delays, interest penalty 
     payments, and improper payments, and actual savings realized 
     through interest payments made, discounts for timely or 
     advanced payments, and other financial management and 
     improvement initiatives.
       (b) Information Covered.--The tool shall cover financial 
     performance information for the military departments, the 
     defense agencies, and any other organizations or elements of 
     the Department of Defense.
       (c) Tracking of Performance Over Time.--The tool shall 
     permit the tracking of financial performance over time, 
     including by month, quarter, and year, and permit users of 
     the tool to export both current and historical data on 
     financial performance.
       (d) Updates.--The information covered by the tool shall be 
     updated not less frequently than quarterly.

     SEC. 1006. REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATIONS ON EFFORTS TO OBTAIN 
                   AUDIT OPINION ON FULL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may establish 
     within the Department of Defense a team of distinguished, 
     private sector experts with experience conducting financial 
     audits of large public or private sector organizations to 
     review and make recommendations to improve the efforts of the 
     Department to obtain an audit opinion on its full financial 
     statements.
       (b) Scope of Activities.--A team established pursuant to 
     subsection (a) shall--
       (1) identify impediments to the progress of the Department 
     in obtaining an audit opinion on its full financial 
     statements, including an identification of the organizations 
     or elements that are lagging in their efforts toward 
     obtaining such audit opinion;
       (2) estimate when an audit opinion on the full financial 
     statements of the Department will be obtained; and
       (3) consider mechanisms and incentives to support efficient 
     achievement by the Department of its audit goals, including 
     organizational mechanisms to transfer direction and 
     management control of audit activities from subordinate 
     organizations to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, 
     individual personnel incentives, workforce improvements 
     (including in senior leadership positions), business process, 
     technology, and systems improvements (including the use of 
     data analytics), and metrics by which the Secretary and 
     Congress may measure and assess progress toward achievement 
     of the audit goals of the Department.
       (c) Reports.--
       (1) Report on establishment of team.--If the Secretary 
     takes action pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall, 
     not later than September 30, 2019, submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the team 
     established pursuant to that subsection, including a 
     description of the actions taken and to be taken by the team 
     pursuant to subsection (b).
       (2) Report on determination not to establish team.--If as 
     of June 1, 2019, the Secretary has determined not to 
     establish a team authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary 
     shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives on that date a report 
     on the determination, including an explanation and 
     justification for the determination.

     SEC. 1007. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN CONTRACTS FOR 
                   AUDIT SERVICES.

       (a) Notification to Congress.--If the Under Secretary of 
     Defense (Comptroller) makes a written finding that a delay in 
     performance of a covered contract while a protest is pending 
     would hinder the annual preparation of audited financial 
     statements for the Department of Defense, and the head of the 
     procuring activity responsible for the award of the covered 
     contract does not authorize the award of the contract 
     (pursuant to section 3553(c)(2) of title 31, United States 
     Code) or the performance of the contract (pursuant to section 
     3553(d)(3)(C) of such title), the Secretary of Defense 
     shall--
       (1) notify the congressional defense committees within 10 
     days after such finding is made; and
       (2) describe any steps the Department of Defense plans to 
     take to mitigate any hindrance identified in such finding to 
     the annual preparation of audited financial statements for 
     the Department.
       (b) Covered Contract Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered contract'' means a contract for services to perform 
     an audit to comply with the requirements of section 3515 of 
     title 31, United States Code.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

     SEC. 1011. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT A UNIFIED 
                   COUNTERDRUG AND COUNTERTERRORISM CAMPAIGN IN 
                   COLOMBIA.

       Section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 
     118 Stat. 2042), as most recently amended by section 1013 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2385), is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``2019'' and 
     inserting ``2022''; and
       (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2022''.

     SEC. 1012. VENUE FOR PROSECUTION OF MARITIME DRUG 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       (a) In General.--Section 70504(b) of title 46, United 
     States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Venue.--A person violating section 70503 or 70508--
       ``(1) shall be tried in the district in which such offense 
     was committed; or
       ``(2) if the offense was begun or committed upon the high 
     seas, or elsewhere outside the jurisdiction of any particular 
     State or district, may be tried in any district.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1009(d) of the 
     Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 
     959(d)) is amended--
       (1) in the subsection title, by striking ``; Venue''; and
       (2) by striking ``Any person who violates this section 
     shall be tried in the United States district court at the 
     point of entry where such person enters the United States, or 
     in the United States District Court for the District of 
     Columbia.''.

                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

     SEC. 1021. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

       (a) Fund Purposes; Deposits.--Section 2218 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking subparagraph (D); and
       (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D);
       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or (D)''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and 
     inserting a period; and
       (iii) by striking subparagraph (D); and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (4):
       ``(4) Any other funds made available to the Department of 
     Defense to carry out any of the purposes described in 
     subsection (c).''.
       (b) Authority to Purchase Used Vessels.--Subsection (f) of 
     such section is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3)(A) Notwithstanding the limitations under subsection 
     (c)(1)(E) and paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense may, as 
     part of a program to recapitalize the Ready Reserve Force 
     component of the national defense reserve fleet and the 
     Military Sealift Command surge fleet, purchase any used 
     vessel, regardless of where such vessel was constructed if 
     such vessel--
       ``(i) participated in the Maritime Security Fleet; and
       ``(ii) is available for purchase at a reasonable cost, as 
     determined by the Secretary.
       ``(B) If the Secretary determines that no used vessel 
     meeting the requirements under clauses (i) and (ii) of 
     subparagraph (A) is available, the Secretary may purchase a 
     used vessel comparable to a vessel described in clause (i) of 
     subparagraph (A), regardless of the source of the

[[Page H8777]]

     vessel or where the vessel was constructed, if such vessel is 
     available for purchase at a reasonable cost, as determined by 
     the Secretary.
       ``(C) The Secretary may not use the authority under this 
     paragraph to purchase more than two foreign constructed 
     ships.
       ``(D) The Secretary shall ensure that the initial 
     conversion, or modernization of any vessel purchased under 
     the authority of subparagraph (A) occurs in a shipyard 
     located in the United States.
       ``(E) Not later than 30 days after the purchase of any 
     vessel using the authority under this paragraph, the 
     Secretary, in consultation with the Maritime Administrator, 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     that contains each of the following with respect to such 
     purchase:
       ``(i) The date of the purchase.
       ``(ii) The price at which the vessel was purchased.
       ``(iii) The anticipated cost of modernization of the 
     vessel.
       ``(iv) The proposed military utility of the vessel.
       ``(v) The proposed date on which the vessel will be 
     available for use by the Ready Reserve.
       ``(vi) The contracting office responsible for the 
     completion of the purchase.
       ``(vii) Certification that--
       ``(I) there was no vessel available for purchase at a 
     reasonable price that was constructed in the United States; 
     and
       ``(II) the used vessel purchased supports the 
     recapitalization of the Ready Reserve Force component of the 
     National Defense Reserve Fleet or the Military Sealift 
     Command surge fleet.''.
       (c) Definition of Maritime Security Fleet.--Subsection (k) 
     of such section is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(5) The term `Maritime Security Fleet' means the fleet 
     established under section 53102(a) of title 46.''.
       (d) Budgeting for Construction of Naval Vessels.--Section 
     231 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by striking ``year--'' and inserting ``year each of the 
     following:'';
       (B) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking ``a plan'' and inserting ``A plan'';
       (ii) by striking ``combatant and support vessels for the 
     Navy'' and inserting ``naval vessels'';
       (iii) by striking the semicolon and inserting ``for each of 
     the following classes of ships:''; and
       (iv) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(A) Combatant and support vessels.
       ``(B) Auxiliary vessels.''; and
       (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``a certification'' and 
     inserting ``A certification'';
       (2) in subsection (b)(2)--
       (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (D) as 
     subparagraphs (C) through (E), respectively;
       (B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new 
     subparagraph (B):
       ``(B) A detailed program for the construction of auxiliary 
     vessels for the Navy over the next 30 fiscal years.''; and
       (C) in subparagraph (E), as redesignated by subparagraph 
     (A), by striking ``subparagraph (C)'' and inserting 
     ``subparagraph (D)''; and
       (3) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(5) The term `auxiliary vessel' means any ship designed 
     to operate in the open ocean in a variety of sea states to 
     provide general support to either combatant forces or shore 
     based establishments.''.

     SEC. 1022. USE OF NATIONAL SEA-BASED DETERRENCE FUND FOR 
                   MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT OF CERTAIN CRITICAL 
                   COMPONENTS.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (i) of section 2218a of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``the common missile compartment'' each 
     place it appears and inserting ``critical components''; and
       (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``critical parts, 
     components, systems, and subsystems'' and inserting 
     ``critical components''.
       (b) Definition of Critical Component.--Subsection (k) of 
     such section is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3) The term `critical component' means any of the 
     following:
       ``(A) A common missile compartment component.
       ``(B) A spherical air flask.
       ``(C) An air induction diesel exhaust valve.
       ``(D) An auxiliary seawater valve.
       ``(E) A hovering valve.
       ``(F) A missile compensation valve.
       ``(G) A main seawater valve.
       ``(H) A launch tube.
       ``(I) A trash disposal unit.
       ``(J) A logistics escape trunk.
       ``(K) A torpedo tube.
       ``(L) A weapons shipping cradle weldment.
       ``(M) A control surface.
       ``(N) A launcher component.
       ``(O) A propulsor.''.
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The subsection heading for 
     subsection (i) of such section is amended by striking ``of 
     the Common Missile Compartment''.

     SEC. 1023. OPERATIONAL READINESS OF LITTORAL COMBAT SHIPS ON 
                   EXTENDED DEPLOYMENT.

       Section 7310(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting ``Under Jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
     the Navy'' in the subsection heading after ``Vessels'';
       (2) by striking ``A naval vessel (or any other vessel under 
     the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy)'' and 
     inserting ``(1) A naval vessel''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2)(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) and subject to 
     subparagraph (B), in the case of a naval vessel classified as 
     a Littoral Combat Ship and operating on deployment, 
     corrective and preventive maintenance or repair (whether 
     intermediate or depot level) and facilities maintenance may 
     be performed on the vessel--
       ``(i) in a foreign shipyard;
       ``(ii) at a facility outside of a foreign shipyard; or
       ``(iii) at any other facility convenient to the vessel.
       ``(B)(i) Corrective and preventive maintenance or repair 
     may be performed on a vessel as described in subparagraph (A) 
     if the work is performed by United States Government 
     personnel or United States contractor personnel.
       ``(ii) Facilities maintenance may be performed by a foreign 
     contractor on a vessel as described in subparagraph (A) only 
     as approved by the Secretary of the Navy.
       ``(C) In this paragraph:
       ``(i) The term `corrective and preventive maintenance or 
     repair' means--
       ``(I) maintenance or repair actions performed as a result 
     of a failure in order to return or restore equipment to 
     acceptable performance levels; and
       ``(II) scheduled maintenance or repair actions to prevent 
     or discover functional failures.
       ``(ii) The term `facilities maintenance' means preservation 
     or corrosion control efforts and cleaning services.
       ``(D) This paragraph shall expire on September 30, 2020.''.

     SEC. 1024. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OR 
                   INACTIVATION OF TICONDEROGA-CLASS CRUISERS OR 
                   DOCK LANDING SHIPS.

       None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
     fiscal year 2018 may be obligated or expended--
       (1) to retire, prepare to retire, or inactivate a cruiser 
     or dock landing ship; or
       (2) to place more than six cruisers and one dock landing 
     ship in the modernization program under section 1026(a)(2) of 
     the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3490).

     SEC. 1025. POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES ON MINIMUM NUMBER OF 
                   BATTLE FORCE SHIPS.

       (a) Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United States to 
     have available, as soon as practicable, not fewer than 355 
     battle force ships, comprised of the optimal mix of 
     platforms, with funding subject to the availability of 
     appropriations or other funds.
       (b) Battle Force Ships Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``battle force ship'' has the meaning given the term in 
     Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5030.8C.

     SEC. 1026. SURVEYING SHIPS.

       (a) Surveying Ship Requirement.--Not later than 120 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of 
     Naval Operations shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report setting forth a force structure 
     assessment that establishes a surveying ship requirement. The 
     Chief of Naval Operations shall conduct the assessment for 
     purposes of the report, and may limit the assessment to 
     surveying ships.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``surveying ship'' has the meaning given the 
     term in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5030.8C.
       (2) The term ``force structure assessment'' has the meaning 
     given the term in Chief of Naval Operations Instruction 
     3050.27.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

     SEC. 1031. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY ON SUPPORT OF SPECIAL 
                   OPERATIONS TO COMBAT TERRORISM.

       (a) Oversight of Support.--Section 127e of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
     subsection (g):
       ``(g) Oversight by ASD for SOLIC.--The Assistant Secretary 
     of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict 
     shall have primary responsibility within the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense for oversight of policies and programs 
     for support authorized by this section.''.
       (b) Report Submittal Matters.--Subsection (h) of such 
     section, as redesignated by subsection (a)(1) of this 
     section, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``March 1 each year'' and 
     inserting ``120 days after the last day of each fiscal 
     year''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``September 1 each year'' and inserting 
     ``six months after the date of the submittal of the report 
     most recently submitted under paragraph (1)''; and
       (B) by inserting ``under this paragraph'' after ``in which 
     the report''.

     SEC. 1032. TERMINATION OF REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT ANNUAL BUDGET 
                   JUSTIFICATION DISPLAY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   COMBATING TERRORISM PROGRAM.

       Section 229 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Termination.--The requirement to submit a budget 
     justification display under this section shall terminate on 
     December 31, 2020.''.

[[Page H8778]]

  


     SEC. 1033. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
                   RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED 
                   STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA TO 
                   THE UNITED STATES.

       No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
     available for the Department of Defense may be used during 
     the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act 
     and ending on December 31, 2018, to transfer, release, or 
     assist in the transfer or release to or within the United 
     States, its territories, or possessions of Khalid Sheikh 
     Mohammed or any other detainee who--
       (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
     Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is or was held on or after January 20, 2009, at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
     of Defense.

     SEC. 1034. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY 
                   FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE 
                   DETAINEES TRANSFERRED FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL 
                   STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

       (a) In General.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may 
     be used during the period beginning on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2018, to 
     construct or modify any facility in the United States, its 
     territories, or possessions to house any individual detained 
     at Guantanamo for the purposes of detention or imprisonment 
     in the custody or under the control of the Department of 
     Defense.
       (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not 
     apply to any modification of facilities at United States 
     Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       (c) Individual Detained at Guantanamo Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' has 
     the meaning given that term in section 1034(f)(2) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 971; 10 U.S.C. 801 note).

     SEC. 1035. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
                   RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED 
                   STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO 
                   CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

       No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
     available for the Department of Defense may be used during 
     the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act 
     and ending on December 31, 2018, to transfer, release, or 
     assist in the transfer or release of any individual detained 
     in the custody or under the control of the Department of 
     Defense at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
     to the custody or control of any country, or any entity 
     within such country, as follows:
       (1) Libya.
       (2) Somalia.
       (3) Syria.
       (4) Yemen.

     SEC. 1036. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR RELINQUISH 
                   CONTROL OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
                   GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

       None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or 
     otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
     fiscal year 2018 may be used--
       (1) to close or abandon United States Naval Station, 
     Guantanamo Bay, Cuba;
       (2) to relinquish control of Guantanamo Bay to the Republic 
     of Cuba; or
       (3) to implement a material modification to the Treaty 
     Between the United States of America and Cuba signed at 
     Washington, D.C. on May 29, 1934, that constructively closes 
     United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay.

     SEC. 1037. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING PROVIDING FOR TIMELY 
                   VICTIM AND FAMILY TESTIMONY IN MILITARY 
                   COMMISSION TRIALS.

       It is the sense of Congress that in the interests of 
     justice, efficiency, and providing closure to victims of 
     terrorism and their families, military judges overseeing 
     military commissions in United States Naval Station, 
     Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, should consider making arrangements to 
     take recorded testimony from victims and their families 
     should they wish to provide testimony before such a 
     commission.

     SEC. 1038. REPORT ON PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF MILITARY 
                   COMMISSIONS PROCEEDINGS.

       (a) GAO Study.--The Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall conduct a study on the feasibility and 
     advisability of expanding the public availability of military 
     commissions proceedings that are made open to the public.
       (b) Report to Congress.--
       (1) Interim report.--Not later than April 1, 2018, the 
     Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and of the House of Representatives a 
     report containing the interim findings of the Comptroller 
     General pursuant to the study required by subsection (a).
       (2) Final report.--Not later than one year after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     of the House of Representatives a final report on the 
     findings and recommendations of the Comptroller General 
     pursuant to such study.
       (3) Form of reports.--The reports required by this 
     subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
     contain a classified annex.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

     SEC. 1041. LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR EMERGENCY 
                   AND EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES FOR INTELLIGENCE AND 
                   COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Limitation.--Subsection (c) of section 127 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(4)(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), funds may not be 
     obligated or expended in an amount in excess of $100,000 
     under the authority of subsection (a) or (b) for intelligence 
     or counter-intelligence activities until the Secretary of 
     Defense has notified the congressional defense committees and 
     the congressional intelligence committees of the intent to 
     obligate or expend the funds and 15 days have elapsed since 
     the date of the notification.
       ``(B) The Secretary of Defense may waive subparagraph (A) 
     if the Secretary determines that such a waiver is necessary 
     due to extraordinary circumstances that affect the national 
     security of the United States. If the Secretary issues a 
     waiver under this subparagraph, the Secretary shall submit to 
     the congressional defense and congressional intelligence 
     committees, by not later than 48 hours after issuing the 
     waiver, written notice of and justification for the 
     waiver.''.
       (b) Annual Report.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``Not later'' and inserting ``(1) Not 
     later'';
       (2) by striking ``to the congressional defense committees'' 
     and all that follows through the period at the end and 
     inserting an em dash; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(A) to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     all expenditures during the preceding fiscal year under 
     subsections (a) and (b); and
       ``(B) to the congressional intelligence committees a report 
     on expenditures relating to intelligence and counter-
     intelligence during the preceding fiscal year under 
     subsections (a) and (b).
       ``(2) Each report required to be submitted under paragraph 
     (1) shall include a detailed explanation, by category of 
     activity and approving authority (the Secretary of Defense, 
     the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, and the 
     Secretary of a military department), of the expenditures 
     during the preceding fiscal year.''.
       (c) Definition.--Such section is further amended by adding 
     at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Definition of Congressional Intelligence 
     Committees.--In this section, the term `congressional 
     intelligence committees' means the Permanent Select Committee 
     on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.''.
       (d) Report on Intelligence and Counter-intelligence Funding 
     Authorities.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense and intelligence committees a 
     report describing current and, if necessary, any required, 
     funding authorities to sustain recurring expenses for 
     intelligence and counter-intelligence activities in lieu of 
     section 127 of title 10, United States Code. Such report 
     shall include a description of the potential benefits and 
     negative consequences of the codification of a distinct 
     authority for such purposes.

     SEC. 1042. MATTERS RELATING TO THE SUBMITTAL OF FUTURE-YEARS 
                   DEFENSE PROGRAMS.

       (a) Timing of Submittal to Congress.--Subsection (a) of 
     section 221 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking ``at or about the time that'' and inserting ``not 
     later than five days after the date on which''.
       (b) Manner and Form of Submittal.--Such section is further 
     amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d)(1) The Secretary of Defense shall make available to 
     Congress, the Congressional Budget Office, the Comptroller 
     General of the United States, and the Congressional Research 
     Service each future-years defense program under this section 
     as follows:
       ``(A) By making such program available electronically in 
     the form of an unclassified electronic database.
       ``(B) By delivering printed copies of such program to the 
     congressional defense committees.
       ``(2) In the event inclusion of classified material in a 
     future-years defense program would otherwise render the 
     totality of the program classified for purposes of this 
     subsection--
       ``(A) such program shall be made available to Congress in 
     unclassified form, with such material attached as a 
     classified annex; and
       ``(B) such annex shall be submitted to the congressional 
     defense committees, the Congressional Budget Office, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States, and the 
     Congressional Research Service.''.
       (c) Accuracy of Information.--Such section is further 
     amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Each future-years defense program under this 
     subsection shall be accompanied by a certification by the 
     Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), in the case of the 
     Department of Defense, and the comptroller of each military 
     department, in the case of such military department, that any 
     information entered into the Standard Data Collection System 
     of the Department of Defense, the Comptroller Information 
     System, or any other data system, as applicable, for purposes 
     of assembling such future-years defense program was 
     accurate.''.
       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     and shall apply to future-years defense programs submitted at 
     the time of budgets of the President for fiscal years 
     beginning after fiscal year 2018.
       (e) DoD Guidance.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in 
     coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense 
     (Comptroller), update Department of Defense Financial 
     Management Regulation 7000.14-R, and any other appropriate 
     instructions and guidance, to ensure that the Department of 
     Defense takes appropriate actions to comply with the 
     amendments made by this section in the submittal of future-
     years defense programs in calendar years after calendar year 
     2017.

[[Page H8779]]

  


     SEC. 1043. MODIFICATIONS TO HUMANITARIAN DEMINING ASSISTANCE 
                   AUTHORITIES.

       (a) Modification to the Role of Armed Forces in Providing 
     Humanitarian Demining Assistance.--Subsection (a)(3) of 
     section 407 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``or stockpiled conventional munitions assistance''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (A)--
       (A) by inserting ``, unexploded explosive ordnance,'' after 
     ``landmines''; and
       (B) by striking ``, or stockpiled conventional munitions, 
     as applicable''.
       (b) Modification to Definition of Humanitarian Demining 
     Assistance.--Subsection (e)(1) of such section is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``, unexploded explosive ordnance,'' after 
     ``landmines'' in each place it appears; and
       (2) by striking ``, and the disposal'' and all that follows 
     and inserting a period.
       (c) Modification to Definition of Stockpiled Conventional 
     Munitions Assistance.--Subsection (e)(2) of such section is 
     amended, in the second sentence, by striking ``, the 
     detection and clearance of landmines and other explosive 
     remnants of war,''.

     SEC. 1044. PROHIBITION ON CHARGE OF CERTAIN TARIFFS ON 
                   AIRCRAFT TRAVELING THROUGH CHANNEL ROUTES.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 157 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 2652. Prohibition on charge of certain tariffs on 
       aircraft traveling through channel routes

       ``The United States Transportation Command may not charge a 
     tariff by reason of the use by a military service of an 
     aircraft of that military service on a route designated by 
     the United States Transportation Command as a channel 
     route.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``2652. Prohibition on charge of certain tariffs on aircraft traveling 
              through channel routes.''.

     SEC. 1045. PROHIBITION ON LOBBYING ACTIVITIES WITH RESPECT TO 
                   THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BY CERTAIN OFFICERS 
                   OF THE ARMED FORCES AND CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF 
                   THE DEPARTMENT FOLLOWING SEPARATION FROM 
                   MILITARY SERVICE OR EMPLOYMENT WITH THE 
                   DEPARTMENT.

       (a) Two-year Prohibition.--
       (1) Prohibition.--An individual described in paragraph (2) 
     may not engage in lobbying activities with respect to the 
     Department of Defense during the two-year period beginning on 
     the date of retirement or separation from service in the 
     Armed Forces or the date of retirement or separation from 
     service with the Department, as applicable.
       (2) Covered individuals.--An individual described in this 
     paragraph is the following:
       (A) An officer of the Armed Forces in grade O-9 or higher 
     at the time of retirement or separation from the Armed 
     Forces.
       (B) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense who 
     had a civilian grade equivalent to a military grade specified 
     in subparagraph (A) at the time of the employee's retirement 
     or separation from service with the Department.
       (b) One-year Prohibition.--
       (1) Prohibition.--An individual described in paragraph (2) 
     may not engage in lobbying activities with respect to the 
     Department of Defense during the one-year period beginning on 
     the date of retirement or separation from service in the 
     Armed Forces or the date of retirement or separation from 
     service with the Department, as applicable.
       (2) Covered individuals.--An individual described in this 
     paragraph is the following:
       (A) An officer of the Armed Forces in grade O-7 or O-8 at 
     the time of retirement or separation from the Armed Forces.
       (B) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense who 
     had a civilian grade equivalent to a military grade specified 
     in subparagraph (A) at the time of the employee's retirement 
     or separation from service with the Department.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``lobbying activities with respect to the 
     Department of Defense'' means the following:
       (A) Lobbying contacts and other lobbying activities with 
     covered executive branch officials with respect to the 
     Department of Defense.
       (B) Lobbying contacts with covered executive branch 
     officials described in subparagraphs (C) through (F) of 
     section 3(3) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
     1602(3)) in the Department of Defense.
       (2) The terms ``lobbying activities'' and ``lobbying 
     contacts'' have the meaning given such terms in section 3 of 
     the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602).
       (3) The term ``covered executive branch official'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 3(3) of the Lobbying 
     Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602(3)).

     SEC. 1046. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF 
                   LEGACY MARITIME MINE COUNTERMEASURES PLATFORMS.

       (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
     Secretary of the Navy may not obligate or expend funds to--
       (1) retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in 
     storage any AVENGER-class mine countermeasures ship or 
     associated equipment;
       (2) retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in 
     storage any SEA DRAGON (MH-53) helicopter or associated 
     equipment;
       (3) make any reductions to manning levels with respect to 
     any AVENGER-class mine countermeasures ship; or
       (4) make any reductions to manning levels with respect to 
     any SEA DRAGON helicopter squadron or detachment.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Navy may waive the 
     prohibition under subsection (a)--
       (1) with respect to an AVENGER-class ship or a SEA DRAGON 
     helicopter, if the Secretary certifies to the congressional 
     defense committees that the Secretary has--
       (A) identified a replacement capability and the necessary 
     quantity of such systems to meet all combatant commander mine 
     countermeasures operational requirements that are currently 
     being met by the ship or helicopter to be retired, 
     transferred, or placed in storage;
       (B) achieved initial operational capability of all systems 
     described in subparagraph (A); and
       (C) deployed a sufficient quantity of systems described in 
     subparagraph (A) that have achieved initial operational 
     capability to continue to meet or exceed all combatant 
     commander mine countermeasures operational requirements 
     currently being met by the ship or helicopter to be retired, 
     transferred, or placed in storage; or
       (2) with respect to a SEA DRAGON helicopter, if the 
     Secretary certifies to such committees that the Secretary has 
     determined, on a case-by-case basis, that such a helicopter 
     is non-operational because of a mishap or other damage or 
     because it is uneconomical to repair.

     SEC. 1047. REPORT ON WESTERN PACIFIC OCEAN SHIP DEPOT 
                   MAINTENANCE CAPABILITY AND CAPACITY.

       (a) Limitation of Use of Funds.--Not more than 75 percent 
     of the amount authorized to be appropriated by this Act for 
     Secretary of the Navy for emergency and extraordinary 
     expenses may be obligated or expended before the date on 
     which the report required by subsection (b) is submitted to 
     the congressional defense committees.
       (b) Report Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees a report on the ship 
     depot maintenance capability and capacity required for Navy 
     ships operating in the western Pacific Ocean. The report 
     shall include each of the following:
       (A) An analysis of the requirements relating to Navy ship 
     depot maintenance during peacetime and in response to the 
     most likely, stressing, and dangerous contingency scenarios.
       (B) A description of the extent to which the existing Navy 
     ship depot capacity can meet the requirements described in 
     subparagraph (A).
       (C) A description of any specific shortfalls in such 
     capability or capacity with respect to meeting such 
     requirements.
       (D) An analysis of options to address any shortfalls 
     described in subparagraph (C).
       (2) Form of report.--The report required under this 
     subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
     contain a classified annex.
       (c) Certification Required.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the submittal of the report required by subsection (b), the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a certification--
       (1) that the current ship depot maintenance capability and 
     capacity, including drydocks, in the western Pacific Ocean 
     are sufficient to meet peacetime and contingency 
     requirements; or
       (2) certification that such capability and capacity are not 
     sufficient and a description of the options being pursued to 
     address areas of insufficiency.
       (d) Business Case Analysis Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2018, the 
     Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a business case analysis of the options 
     described in paragraph (2) that includes the analysis 
     described in paragraph (3).
       (2) Options to be included.--The business case analysis 
     required by paragraph (1) shall cover options that could 
     increase the Navy depot-level ship repair capacity and 
     capabilities in the western Pacific Ocean, including the 
     following four courses of action:
       (A) Enhancing current maintenance capability and capacity 
     by repairing Lima Wharf, United States Naval Base, Guam.
       (B) Adding drydock capability and capacity with associated 
     facilities for conventionally-powered ships.
       (C) Adding drydock capability and capacity with associated 
     facilities for nuclear-powered submarines.
       (D) Maintaining the status quo with respect to the ship 
     repair capabilities and capacity in the western Pacific 
     Ocean.
       (3) Analysis of options.--For each course of action listed 
     in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall include an analysis of 
     the following:
       (A) Any additional maintenance actions that would be 
     possible with respect to the course of action and estimated 
     use during peacetime and during the most likely, stressing 
     and dangerous contingency operations.
       (B) Any additional infrastructure, including facilities and 
     equipment, that would be necessary to carry out the course of 
     action.
       (C) The military, civilian, and contractor personnel 
     requirements to reach full operational capability with 
     respect to the course of action, including personnel to be 
     assigned on both a temporary and permanent basis.
       (D) A description of how the course of action would improve 
     materiel readiness and operational availability of ships 
     operating in the Pacific.
       (E) The estimated cost and schedule to implement the course 
     of action, including detailed estimates for major cost 
     elements.
       (F) In the case of a course of action described in 
     subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2), an evaluation of 
     acquisition strategies (including procurement, leasing, 
     public-private partnerships, and enhanced use leases) and an 
     identification of the desired ship tonnage each drydock would 
     be able to accommodate.

[[Page H8780]]

  


     SEC. 1048. ANNUAL TRAINING REGARDING THE INFLUENCE CAMPAIGN 
                   OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       In addition to any currently mandated training, the 
     Secretary of Defense may furnish annual training to all 
     members of the Armed Forces and all civilian employees of the 
     Department of Defense, regarding attempts by the Russian 
     Federation and its proxies and agents to influence and 
     recruit members of the Armed Forces as part of its influence 
     campaign.

     SEC. 1049. WORKFORCE ISSUES FOR MILITARY REALIGNMENTS IN THE 
                   PACIFIC.

       (a) In General.--Section 6(b) of the Joint Resolution 
     entitled ``A Joint Resolution to approve the `Covenant To 
     Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in 
     Political Union With the United States of America', and for 
     other purposes'', approved March 24, 1976 (48 U.S.C. 1806(b)) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Numerical Limitations for Nonimmigrant Workers.--
       ``(1) In general.--
       ``(A) Nonimmigrant workers generally.--An alien, if 
     otherwise qualified, may seek admission to Guam or to the 
     Commonwealth during the transition program as a nonimmigrant 
     worker under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 USC 1101(a)(15)(H)) without counting 
     against the numerical limitations set forth in section 214(g) 
     of such Act (8 USC 1184(g)).
       ``(B) H-2B workers.--In the case of such an alien who seeks 
     admission under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of such Act, 
     such alien, if otherwise qualified, may, before October 1, 
     2023, be admitted under such section for a period of up to 3 
     years to perform service or labor on Guam or the Commonwealth 
     pursuant to any agreement entered into by a prime contractor 
     or subcontractor calling for services or labor required for 
     performance of a contact or subcontract for construction, 
     repairs, renovations, or facility services that is directly 
     connected to, or associated with, the military realignment 
     occurring on Guam and the Commonwealth, notwithstanding the 
     requirement of such section that the service or labor be 
     temporary.
       ``(2) Limitations.--
       ``(A) Numerical limitation.--For any fiscal year, not more 
     4,000 aliens may be admitted to Guam and the Commonwealth 
     pursuant to paragraph (1)(B).
       ``(B) Location.--Paragraph (1)(B) does not apply with 
     respect to the performance of services or labor at a location 
     other than Guam or the Commonwealth.''.
       (b) Certification Required.--Upon conclusion of all 
     required agreements between the Secretary of Defense and the 
     heads of relevant Federal agencies, the Commonwealth of the 
     Northern Mariana Islands (including the Commonwealth Port 
     Authority), and local agencies to support the required 
     construction and operation of the divert activities and 
     exercises program of the Air Force in the Commonwealth of the 
     Northern Mariana Islands and the Commonwealth of the Northern 
     Mariana Islands joint military training program of the Marine 
     Corps, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees certification of such conclusion and a 
     report describing such agreements.
       (c) Effective Dates.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act 
     and shall apply as follows:
       (1) In the case of services or labor to be performed on 
     Guam, such amendment shall apply beginning on the date that 
     is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (2) In the case of services or labor to be performed on the 
     Common Wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, such amendment 
     shall apply beginning on the later of--
       (A) the date that is 120 days after the date of the 
     submittal of the certification and report required under 
     subsection (b); or
       (B) the date on which the transition program ends under 
     section 6(a)(2) of the Joint Resolution entitled ``A Joint 
     Resolution to approve the `Covenant To Establish a 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political 
     Union With the United States of America', and for other 
     purposes'', approved March 24, 1976 (48 U.S.C. 1806(a)(2)).

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

     SEC. 1051. ELIMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS TERMINATED 
                   AFTER NOVEMBER 25, 2017, PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                   1080 OF THE NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT 
                   FOR FISCAL YEAR 2016.

       (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 113 reports.--
       (A) Reserve forces policy board report.--Section 113(c) is 
     amended--
       (i) by striking paragraph (2);
       (ii) by striking ``(1)'' after ``(c)''; and
       (iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
     paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively.
       (B) Total force management report.--Section 113 is amended 
     by striking subsection (l).
       (2) Diversity in military leadership report.--Section 
     115a(g) is amended by striking ``during fiscal years 2013 
     through 2017''.
       (3) Defense industrial security report.--Section 428 is 
     amended by striking subsection (f).
       (4) Military musical units gift report.--Section 974(d) is 
     amended by striking paragraph (3).
       (5) Health protection quality report.--Section 1073b is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (a); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
     (a) and (b), respectively.
       (6) Master plans for reductions in civilian positions.--
       (A) In general.--Section 1597 is amended--
       (i) by striking subsection (c);
       (ii) by striking subsections (d), (e), and (f) as 
     subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively; and
       (iii) in subsection (c), as redesignated, by striking ``or 
     a master plan prepared under subsection (c)''.
       (B) Conforming amendments.--Section 129a(d) is amended--
       (i) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2); and
       (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
     (1) and (2), respectively.
       (7) Acquisition workforce development fund report.--Section 
     1705 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``subsection (h)(2)'' 
     and inserting ``subsection (g)(2)'';
       (B) by striking subsection (f); and
       (C) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
     (f) and (g), respectively.
       (8) Acquisition corps report.--Section 1722b is amended by 
     striking subsection (c).
       (9) Military family readiness report.--Section 1781b is 
     amended by striking subsection (d).
       (10) Professional military education report.--
       (A) Elimination.--Section 2157 is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 107 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 2157.
       (11) Department of defense conferences fee-collection 
     report.--Section 2262 is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (12) United states contributions to nato common-funded 
     budgets report.--Section 2263 is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
       (13) Foreign counter-space programs report.--
       (A) Elimination.--Section 2277 is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 135 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 2277.
       (14) Use of multiyear contracts report.--Section 
     2306b(l)(4) is amended by striking ``Not later than'' and all 
     that follows through the colon and inserting the following: 
     ``Each report required by paragraph (5) with respect to a 
     contract (or contract extension) shall contain the 
     following:''.
       (15) Burden sharing contributions report.--Section 2350j is 
     amended by striking subsection (f).
       (16) Contract prohibition waiver report.--Section 2410i(c) 
     is amended by striking the second sentence.
       (17) Strategic sourcing plan of action report.--Subsection 
     (a) of section 2475 is amended to read as follows:
       ``(a) Strategic Sourcing Plan of Action Defined.--In this 
     section, the term `Strategic Sourcing Plan of Action' means a 
     Strategic Sourcing Plan of Action for the Department of 
     Defense (as identified in the Department of Defense Interim 
     Guidance dated February 29, 2000, or any successor Department 
     of Defense guidance or directive) in effect for a fiscal 
     year.''.
       (18) Technology and industrial base policy guidance 
     report.--Section 2506 is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``Such guidance'' and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(b) Purpose of Guidance.--The guidance prescribed 
     pursuant to subsection (a)''.
       (19) Foreign-controlled contractors report.--Section 2537 
     is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
       (20) Support for sporting events report.--Section 2564 is 
     amended--
       (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``section 377'' and 
     inserting ``section 277'';
       (B) by striking subsection (e);
       (C) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively; and
       (D) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, by ``striking 
     sections 375 and 376'' and inserting ``sections 275 and 
     276''.
       (21) General and flag officer quarters report.--Section 
     2831 is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e);
       (B) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e); and
       (C) in subsection (e), as so redesignated--
       (i) by striking ``(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) 
     and (3), the Secretary'' and inserting ``The Secretary'';
       (ii) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
       (iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
     paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
       (22) Military installations vulnerability assessment 
     reports.--Section 2859 is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (c); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
       (23) Industrial facility investment program construction 
     report.--Section 2861 is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (24) Statement of amounts available for water conservation 
     at military installations.--Section 2866(b) is amended by 
     striking paragraph (3).
       (25) Acquisition or construction of military unaccompanied 
     housing pilot projects report.--Section 2881a is amended by 
     striking subsection (e).
       (26) Statement of amounts available from energy cost 
     savings.--Section 2912 is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (27) Army training report.--
       (A) Elimination.--Section 4316 is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 401 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 4316.
       (28) State of the army reserve report.--Section 3038(f) is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking ``(1)'' before ``The''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2).
       (29) State of the marine corps reserve report.--Section 
     5144(d) is amended--

[[Page H8781]]

       (A) by striking ``(1)'' before ``The''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2).
       (30) State of the air force reserve report.--Section 
     8038(f) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(1)'' before ``The''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2).
       (b) Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985.--Section 
     1003 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 
     (Public Law 98-525; 22 U.S.C. 1928 note), relating to an 
     annual report on allied contributions to the common defense, 
     is amended by striking subsections (c) and (d).
       (c) National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989.--
     Section 1009 of the National Defense Authorization Act, 
     Fiscal Year 1989 (Public Law 100-456; 22 U.S.C. 1928 note), 
     relating to an annual report on the official development 
     assistance program of Japan, is amended by striking 
     subsection (b).
       (d) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     1991.--Section 1518 of the Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 24 U.S.C. 418), 
     relating to reports on the results of inspection of Armed 
     Forces Retirement Homes, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``Congress and''; and
       (2) in subsection (e)--
       (A) by striking paragraph (2);
       (B) by striking ``(1)'' before ``Not later''; and
       (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
     paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
       (e) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 
     1992 and 1993.--Section 1046 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (Public Law 
     102-190; 22 U.S.C. 1928 note), relating to an annual report 
     on defense cost-sharing, is amended by striking subsections 
     (e) and (f).
       (f) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     1994.--Section 1603 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 103-160; 22 U.S.C. 2751 
     note), relating to an annual report on counterproliferation 
     policy and programs of the United States, is amended by 
     striking subsection (d).
       (g) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     1995.--Section 533 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337; 10 U.S.C. 113 
     note), relating to an annual report on personnel readiness 
     factors by race and gender, is repealed.
       (h) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2000.--Section 366 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), 
     relating to an annual report on spare parts, logistics, and 
     sustainment standards, is amended by striking subsection (f).
       (i) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2002.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2002 (Public Law 107-107) is amended as follows:
       (1) Army workload and performance system report.--Section 
     346 (115 Stat. 1062) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsections (b) and (c); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (b).
       (2) Reliability of financial statements report.--Section 
     1008(d) (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(1)'' before ``On each''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2).
       (j) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2003.--Section 817 of the Bob Stump National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 
     10 U.S.C. 2306a note), relating to an annual report on 
     commercial item and exceptional case exceptions and waivers, 
     is amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (d); and
       (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
       (k) National Defense Authorization Act for 2006.--The 
     National Defense Authorization Act for 2006 (Public Law 109-
     163) is amended as follows:
       (1) Notification of adjustment in limitation amount for 
     next-generation destroyer program.--Section 123 (119 Stat. 
     3156) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (d); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
       (2) Certification of budgets for joint tactical radio 
     system report.--Section 218(c) (119 Stat. 3171) is amended by 
     striking paragraph (3).
       (3) Department of defense costs to carry out united nations 
     resolutions report.--Section 1224 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is 
     repealed.
       (l) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2007.--Section 357(b) of the John Warner National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 
     22 U.S.C. 4865 note), relating to an annual report on 
     Department of Defense overseas personnel subject to chief of 
     mission authority, is amended by striking ``shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees'' and inserting ``shall 
     prepare''.
       (m) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2008.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2008 (Public Law 110-181) is amended as follows:
       (1) Army industrial facilities cooperative activities 
     report.--Section 328 (10 U.S.C. 4544 note) is amended by 
     striking subsection (b).
       (2) Army product improvement report.--Section 330 (122 
     Stat. 68) is amended by striking subsection (e).
       (n) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2009.--The Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417) is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) Support for non-conventional assisted recovery 
     activities report.--Section 943 (122 Stat. 4578) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as 
     subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively.
       (2) Reimbursement of navy mess expenses report.--Section 
     1014 (122 Stat. 4585) is amended by striking subsection (c).
       (3) Electromagnetic pulse attack report.--Section 1048 (122 
     Stat. 4603) is repealed.
       (o) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2010.--Section 121 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2211) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (e); and
       (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
       (p) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011.--The Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383) is amended as follows:
       (1) Navy airborne signals intelligence, surveillance, and 
     reconnaissance capabilities report.--Section 112(b) (124 
     Stat. 4153) is amended--
       (A) by striking paragraph (3); and
       (B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
       (2) Inclusion of technology protection features during 
     research and development of defense systems report.--Section 
     243 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (c); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
     (c) and (d), respectively.
       (3) Acquisition of military purpose nondevelopmental items 
     report.--Section 866(d) (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(d) Reports.--'' and all that follows 
     through ``(2) Program assessment.--If the Secretary'' and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(d) Program Assessment.--If the Secretary''; and
       (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
     paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively, and indenting the 
     left margin of such paragraphs, as so redesignated, two ems 
     from the left margin.
       (4) Nuclear triad report.--Section 1054 (10 U.S.C. 113 
     note) is repealed.
       (q) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2012.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2012 (Public Law 112-81) is amended as follows:
       (1) Performance management system and appointment 
     procedures report.--Section 1102 (5 U.S.C. 9902 note) is 
     amended by striking subsection (b).
       (2) Global security contingency fund report.--Section 1207 
     (22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (n); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (o) and (p) as subsections 
     (n) and (o).
       (3) Data servers and centers cost savings report.--Section 
     2867 (10 U.S.C. 2223a note) is amended by striking subsection 
     (d).
       (r) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2013.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2013 (Public Law 112-239) is amended as follows:
       (1) F-22A raptor modernization program report.--Section 144 
     (126 Stat. 1663) is amended by striking subsection (c).
       (2) TRICARE mail-order pharmacy program report.--Section 
     716 (10 U.S.C. 1074g note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (e) and (f).
       (3) Warriors in transition programs report.--Section 738 
     (10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
       (4) Use of indemnification agreements report.--Section 865 
     (126 Stat. 1861) is repealed.
       (5) Counter space technology report.--Section 917 (126 
     Stat. 1878) is repealed.
       (6) Imagery intelligence and geospatial information support 
     report.--Section 921 (126 Stat. 1878) is amended by striking 
     subsection (c).
       (7) Computer network operations coordination report.--
     Section 1079 (10 U.S.C. 221 note) is amended by striking 
     subsection (c).
       (8) Updates of activities of office of security cooperation 
     in iraq report.--Section 1211(d) (126 Stat. 1983) is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking paragraph (3); and
       (B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
       (9) United states participation in the atares program 
     report.--Section 1276 (10 U.S.C. 2350c note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsections (e) and (f); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (e).
       (s) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2014.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2014 (Public Law 113-66) is amended as follows:
       (1) Modernizing personnel security strategy metrics 
     report.--Section 907(c)(3) (10 U.S.C. 1564 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(A) Metrics required.--In'' and inserting 
     ``In''; and
       (B) by striking subparagraph (B).
       (2) Defense clandestine service report.--Section 923 (10 
     U.S.C. prec. 421 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as 
     subsection (b), (c), and (d), respectively.
       (3) International agreements relating to dod report.--
     Section 1249 (127 Stat. 925) is repealed.
       (4) Small business growth report.--Section 1611 (127 Stat. 
     946) is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (t) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015.--The Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
     Defense

[[Page H8782]]

     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291) 
     is amended as follows:
       (1) Assignment of private sector personnel to defense 
     advanced research projects agency report.--Section 232 (10 
     U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively.
       (2) Government lodging program report.--Section 914 (5 
     U.S.C. 5911 note) is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (3) DOD response to compromises of classified information 
     report.--Section 1052 (128 Stat. 3497) is repealed.
       (4) Personnel protection and personnel survivability 
     equipment loan report.--Section 1207 (10 U.S.C. 2342 note) is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (d); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
     (d) and (e), respectively.
       (5) DOD assistance to counter isis report.--Section 1236 
     (128 Stat. 3558) is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (6) Cooperative threat reduction program use of 
     contributions report.--Section 1325 (50 U.S.C. 3715) is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively.
       (7) Cooperative threat reduction program facilities 
     certification report.--Section 1341 (50 U.S.C. 3741) is 
     repealed.
       (8) Cooperative threat reduction program project category 
     report.--Section 1342 (50 U.S.C. 3742) is repealed.
       (9) Statement on allocation of funds for space security and 
     defense program.--Section 1607 (128 Stat. 3625) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(a) Allocation of Funds.--'';
       (B) by striking subsections (b), (c), and (d); and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``This 
     requirement shall terminate on December 19, 2019.''.
       (u) Preservation of Certain Additional Reports.--Effective 
     as of December 23, 2016, and as if included therein as 
     enacted, section 1061(c) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended as follows:
       (1) National guard bureau report.--By inserting after 
     paragraph (63) the following new paragraph:
       ``(64) Section 10504(b).''.
       (2) Report on procurement of contract services.--By 
     inserting after paragraph (64), as added by paragraph (1), 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(65) Section 235.''.
       (3) Annual defense manpower requirements report.--By 
     inserting after paragraph (65), as added by paragraph (2), 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(66) Section 115a.''.
       (4) STARBASE program report.--By inserting after paragraph 
     (66), as added by paragraph (3), the following new paragraph:
       ``(67) Section 2193b(g).''.
       (v) Preservation of Vetted Syrian Opposition Report.--
     Effective as of December 23, 2016, and as if included therein 
     as enacted, section 1061(d) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(18) Section 1209(d) (128 Stat. 3542).''.
       (w) Preservation of Reports Required by Other Laws.--
     Effective as of December 23, 2016, and as if included therein 
     as enacted, section 1061(i) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended as follows:
       (1) National guard youth challenge report.--By adding at 
     the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(34) Section 509(k) of title 32, United States Code.''.
       (2)  Annual report on support to law enforcement agencies 
     conducting counter-terrorism activities.--By inserting after 
     paragraph (34), as added by paragraph (1), the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(35) Section 1022(c) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 U.S.C. 371 
     note).''.
       (x) Termination of Certain Additional Reports.--Effective 
     on December 31, 2021, the reports required under the 
     following provisions of title 10, United States Code, shall 
     no longer be required to be submitted to Congress:
       (1) Section 113(c)(1).
       (2) Section 113(e).
       (3) Section 116.
       (4) Section 2432.
       (y) Report to Congress.--Not later than February 1, 2018, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a 
     report that includes the following:
       (1) A list of all reports required to be submitted to 
     Congress by the Department of Defense, or any officer, 
     official, component, or element of the Department, from any 
     source of law other than an annual national defense 
     authorization Act as of April 1, 2015.
       (2) For each report included on the list under paragraph 
     (1), a citation to the provision of law under which the 
     report is required to be submitted.
       (z) Effective Date.--Except as provided in subsections (u), 
     (v), and (w) the amendments made by this section shall take 
     effect on the later of--
       (1) the date of the enactment of this Act; or
       (2) November 25, 2017.

     SEC. 1052. REPORT ON TRANSFER OF DEFENSE ARTICLES TO UNITS 
                   COMMITTING GROSS VIOLATIONS OF HUMAN RIGHTS.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, 
     in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
     transfer of defense articles to units committing gross 
     violations of human rights.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A description of the current laws, guidance, and 
     policies, if any, for Department of Defense personnel to 
     monitor and report the transfer of defense articles, provided 
     to the government of a foreign state pursuant to a Department 
     of Defense assistance authority, that have subsequently been 
     provided by that government to a unit of that foreign state 
     that is prohibited from receiving assistance from the United 
     States by reason of a determination by the Secretary of State 
     that there is credible evidence that such unit has committed 
     a gross violation of human rights.
       (2) A description of any confirmed instances since January 
     1, 2016, in which the government of a foreign state that has 
     received defense articles pursuant to a Department of Defense 
     assistance authority has subsequently transferred the 
     equipment to a unit of that foreign state that is prohibited 
     from receiving assistance from the United States by reason of 
     a determination by the Secretary of State that there is 
     credible evidence that such unit has committed a gross 
     violation of human rights.
       (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1053. REPORT ON THE NATIONAL BIODEFENSE ANALYSIS AND 
                   COUNTERMEASURES CENTER.

       (a) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security and the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a report, 
     prepared in consultation with the officials listed in 
     subsection (b), on the National Biodefense Analysis and 
     Countermeasures Center (referred to in this section as the 
     ``NBACC''). Such report shall contain the following 
     information:
       (1) The functions of the NBACC.
       (2) The end users of the NBACC, including those whose 
     assets may be managed by other agencies.
       (3) The cost and mission impact for each user identified 
     under paragraph (2) of any potential closure of the NBACC, 
     including an analysis of the functions of the NBACC that 
     cannot be replicated by other departments and agencies of the 
     Federal Government.
       (4) In the case of closure of the NBACC, a transition plan 
     for any essential functions currently performed by the NBACC 
     to ensure mission continuity, including the storage of 
     samples needed for ongoing criminal cases.
       (b) Consultation.--The officials listed in this subsection 
     are the following:
       (1) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
       (2) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
       (3) The Attorney General.
       (4) The Director of National Intelligence.
       (5) As determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
     the leaders of other offices that use the NBACC.
       (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a 
     classified annex.
       (d) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated in this Act may be used to support the closure 
     or transfer of the NBACC until--
       (1) the report required by subsection (a) has been 
     submitted; and
       (2) the heads of the Federal agencies that use the NBACC 
     jointly provide to the appropriate congressional committees 
     certification that the closure or transfer of the NBACC would 
     not have a negative effect on biological defense 
     capabilities.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--For 
     purposes of this section, the term ``appropriate 
     congressional committees'' means the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives, the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
     the Senate, the Committees on Judiciary of the Senate and the 
     House of Representatives, the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform of the House of Representatives, the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate.

     SEC. 1054. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ARCTIC CAPABILITY 
                   AND RESOURCE GAPS AND REQUIRED INFRASTRUCTURE.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     setting forth--
       (1) necessary steps the Department of Defense is 
     undertaking to resolve Arctic security capability and 
     resource gaps; and
       (2) the requirements and investment plans for military 
     infrastructure required to protect United States national 
     security interests in the Arctic region.
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include an analysis of each of the following:
       (1) The infrastructure needed to ensure national security 
     in the Arctic region.
       (2) Any shortfalls in observation, remote sensing 
     capabilities, ice prediction, and weather forecasting, 
     including an analysis of--

[[Page H8783]]

       (A) the readiness challenges posed by a changing Arctic 
     region; and
       (B) changes to the Arctic region that affect existing 
     military infrastructure.
       (3) Any shortfalls of the Department in navigational aids.
       (4) Any additional, necessary high-latitude electronic and 
     communications infrastructure requirements.
       (5) Any gaps in intelligence, surveillance, and 
     reconnaissance coverage and recommendations for additional 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities.
       (6) Any shortfalls in personnel recovery capabilities.
       (7) United States national security interests in the Arctic 
     region, including strategic national assets, United States 
     citizens, territory, freedom of navigation, and economic and 
     trade interests in the region.
       (8) United States military capabilities needed for 
     operations in Arctic terrain, including types of forces, 
     major weapon systems, and logistics required for operations 
     in such terrain.
       (9) The installations, infrastructure, and deep water ports 
     for deployment of assets required to support operations in 
     the Arctic region, including the stationing, deployment, and 
     training of military forces for operations in the region.
       (10) Any additional capabilities the Secretary determines 
     should be incorporated into future Navy surface combatants.
       (c) Form of Report.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 1055. REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   PERSONNEL RECOVERY AND NONCONVENTIONAL ASSISTED 
                   RECOVERY MECHANISMS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a review and assessment of personnel 
     recovery and nonconventional assisted recovery programs, 
     authorities, and policies.
       (b) Elements.--The assessment required under subsection (a) 
     shall include each of the following elements:
       (1) An overall strategy defining personnel recovery and 
     nonconventional assisted recovery programs and activities, 
     including how such programs and activities support the 
     requirements of the geographic combatant commanders.
       (2) A comprehensive review and assessment of statutory 
     authorities, policies, and interagency coordination 
     mechanisms, including limitations and shortfalls, for 
     personnel recovery and nonconventional assisted recovery 
     programs and activities.
       (3) A comprehensive description of current validated 
     requirements and anticipated future personnel recovery and 
     nonconventional assisted recovery requirements across the 
     future years defense program, as validated by the Joint 
     Staff.
       (4) An overview of validated current and expected future 
     force structure requirements necessary to meet near-, mid-, 
     and long-term personnel recovery and nonconventional assisted 
     recovery programs and activities of the geographic combatant 
     commanders.
       (5) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (c) Form of Assessment.--The assessment required under 
     subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
     may include a classified annex.
       (d) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than 90 days 
     after the date on which the assessment required under 
     subsection (a) is submitted, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a review of such assessment.

     SEC. 1056. MINE WARFARE READINESS INSPECTION PLAN AND REPORT.

       (a) Inspection Plan.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this subsection, the Chief of Naval 
     Operations, in consultation with the Combatant Commanders, 
     shall submit a plan for inspections of each unit and 
     organization tasked with delivering operational capability, 
     missions and mission essential tasks, functions, supporting 
     roles, organization, manning, training, and materiel for 
     naval mine warfare. At a minimum, inspected units and 
     organizations shall include those required in the Joint 
     Strategic Capabilities Plan and those assigned in the Forces 
     For Unified Commands document or have the potential to 
     support, by deployment or otherwise, a directed Operation 
     Plan, Concept Plan, contingency operation, homeland security 
     operation, or Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
     requirements for naval offensive or defensive mine warfare.
       (b) Criteria.--This inspection plan shall propose methods 
     to analytically assess, evaluate, improve and assure mission 
     readiness of each unit or organization with required 
     operational capabilities for naval mine warfare. Inspection 
     shall include--
       (1) an assessment or verification of material condition;
       (2) unit wide training and personnel readiness as measured 
     by established tasks, conditions and standards that 
     demonstrate the unit readiness to perform their wartime or 
     homeland defense mission;
       (3) force through unit level training;
       (4) readiness to support multi-echelon, joint service mine 
     warfare operations as part of an offensive, defensive mining 
     or mine countermeasures task;
       (5) readiness to support combatant commander campaign 
     plans, operational plan, concept plan, or the Joint Strategic 
     Capabilities Plan;
       (6) required operational capability;
       (7) inspection and reinspection process; and
       (8) inspection periodicy.
       (c) Applicability.--The inspection requirements under this 
     subsection apply to the following units and organizations:
       (1) Surface MCM vessels or vessels performing MCM tasks.
       (2) Airborne MCM squadrons.
       (3) Mobile mine assembly groups and mobile mine assembly 
     units.
       (4) Fleet patrol squadrons with mine laying capabilities.
       (5) LCS and LCS MCM mission modules upon reaching IOC.
       (6) Mine countermeasures squadrons.
       (7) Units exercising command and control over MIW forces.
       (8) MCM operational support ships.
       (9) Attack and guided missile submarines with mine laying 
     capabilities.
       (10) Magnetic and acoustic silencing facilities.
       (11) EOD MCM or VSW Companies and Platoons.
       (12) SEAL (ESG / CSG) USMC units with VSW capability.
       (d) Certification.--The Chief of Naval Operations shall 
     submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Combatant Commanders, 
     the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and to Congress a 
     report on the program under this subsection. The report shall 
     contain a classified section which addresses capability and 
     capacity to meet JSCP, OPLAN, CONPLAN and contingency 
     requirements and unclassified section with general summary 
     and readiness trends.
       (e) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1090 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
     114-92) is repealed.

     SEC. 1057. ANNUAL REPORT ON CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN CONNECTION 
                   WITH UNITED STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.

       (a) Annual Report Required.--Not later than May 1 each 
     year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on civilian 
     casualties caused as a result of United States military 
     operations during the preceding year.
       (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall set 
     forth the following:
       (1) A list of all the United States military operations 
     during the year covered by such report that were confirmed, 
     or reasonably suspected, to have resulted in civilian 
     casualties.
       (2) For each military operation listed pursuant to 
     paragraph (1), each of the following:
       (A) The date.
       (B) The location.
       (C) An identification of whether the operation occurred 
     inside or outside of a declared theater of active armed 
     conflict.
       (D) The type of operation.
       (E) An assessment of the number of civilian and enemy 
     combatant casualties.
       (3) A description of the process by which the Department of 
     Defense investigates allegations of civilian casualties 
     resulting from United States military operations.
       (4) A description of steps taken by the Department to 
     mitigate harm to civilians in conducting such operations.
       (5) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
     are relevant.
       (c) Use of Sources.--In preparing a report under this 
     section, the Secretary of Defense shall take into account 
     relevant and credible all-source reporting, including 
     information from public reports and nongovernmental sources.
       (d) Form.--Each report under subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (e) Sunset.--The requirement to submit a report under 
     subsection (a) shall expire on the date that is five years 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 1058. REPORT ON JOINT PACIFIC ALASKA RANGE COMPLEX 
                   MODERNIZATION.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air 
     Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     report regarding proposed improvements to the Joint Pacific 
     Alaska Range Complex.
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) An analysis of existing Joint Pacific Alaska Range 
     Complex infrastructure.
       (2) A summary of improvements to the range infrastructure 
     the Secretary determines are necessary--
       (A) for fifth generation fighters to train at maximum 
     potential; and
       (B) to provide a realistic air warfare environment versus a 
     near-peer adversary for--
       (i) four squadrons of fifth generation fighters;
       (ii) annual Red Flag-Alaska exercises; and
       (iii) biannual Operation Northern Edge exercises.

     SEC. 1059. REPORT ON ALTERNATIVES TO AQUEOUS FILM FORMING 
                   FOAM.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
     Department's status with respect to developing a new military 
     specification for safe and effective alternatives to aqueous 
     film forming foam (hereinafter referred to as ``AFFF'') that 
     do not contain perfluorooctanoic acid (hereinafter referred 
     to as ``PFOA'') or erfluorooctanesulfonic acid (hereinafter 
     referred to as ``PFOS'').
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph (1) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) A detailed explanation of the Department's status with 
     respect to developing a new military specification for safe 
     and effective alternatives to AFFF that do not contain PFOA 
     or PFOS.
       (2) An update on the Secretary's plans for replacing AFFF 
     containing PFOA or PFOS at military installations across the 
     country and methods of disposal for AFFF containing PFOA or 
     PFOS.
       (3) An overview of current and planned research and 
     development for AFFF alternatives that do not contain PFOA or 
     PFOS.
       (4) An assessment of how the establishment of a maximum 
     contaminant level for PFOA or PFOS under the Safe Drinking 
     Water Act (42

[[Page H8784]]

     U.S.C. 300f et seq.), rather than the current health advisory 
     level, would impact the Department's mitigation actions, 
     prioritization of such actions, and research and development 
     related to PFOA and PFOS.

     SEC. 1060. ASSESSMENT OF GLOBAL FORCE POSTURE.

       (a) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall, 
     in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
     Staff, the chiefs of the military services, and the 
     commanders of the combatant commands, provide for and oversee 
     an assessment of the global force posture of the Armed 
     Forces.
       (b) Report.--Not later than the earlier of 180 days after 
     the production of the 2018 National Defense Strategy (which 
     is intended to be closely coordinated with and complementary 
     to a new National Security Strategy) or December 31, 2018, 
     the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report on the assessment required by subsection (a). The 
     report shall include the following:
       (1) Recommendations for force size, structure, and basing 
     globally that reflect and complement the force sizing and 
     planning construct included in the 2018 National Defense 
     Strategy in order to guide the growth of the force structure 
     of the Armed Forces, which recommendations shall be based on 
     an evaluation of the relative costs of rotational and 
     forward-based forces as well as impacts to deployment 
     timelines of threats to lines of communication and anti-
     access area denial capabilities of potential adversaries.
       (2) An assessment by each commander of a combatant command 
     of the capability and force structure gaps within the context 
     of an evaluation of the projected threats in the theater of 
     operations of the combatant command concerned and the 
     operation plans of each combatant command.
       (3) An evaluation of the headquarters manning requirements 
     to oversee and direct execution of current operational plans.

     SEC. 1061. ARMY MODERNIZATION STRATEGY.

       (a) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
     develop a modernization strategy for the total Army.
       (b) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) A comprehensive description of the future total Army, 
     including key objectives, war fighting challenges, and risks, 
     sufficient to establish requirements, set priorities, 
     identify opportunity costs, and establish acquisition time 
     lines for the total Army over a period beyond the period of 
     the current future-years defense program under section 221 of 
     title 10, United States Code.
       (2) Mechanisms for identifying programs of the Army that 
     may be unnecessary, or do not perform according to 
     expectations, in achieving the future total Army.
       (3) A comprehensive description of the manner in which the 
     future total Army intends to fight and win as part of a joint 
     force engaged in combat across all operational domains.
       (4) A comprehensive description of the mechanisms required 
     by the future total Army to maintain command, control, and 
     communications and sustainment.
       (5) A description of--
       (A) the combat vehicle modernization priorities of the Army 
     over the next 5 and 10 years;
       (B) the extent to which such priorities can be supported at 
     current funding levels within a relevant time period;
       (C) the extent to which additional funds are required to 
     support such priorities;
       (D) how the Army is balancing and resourcing such 
     priorities with efforts to rebuild and sustain readiness and 
     increase force structure capacity over this same time period; 
     and
       (E) how the Army is balancing its near-term modernization 
     efforts with an accelerated long-term strategy for acquiring 
     next generation combat vehicle capabilities.
       (c) Particular Considerations.--In developing the strategy 
     required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall take into 
     particular account the following:
       (1) Current trends and developments in weapons and 
     equipment technologies.
       (2) New tactics and force design of peer adversaries, 
     including the rapid pace of development of such tactics and 
     force design by such adversaries.
       (d) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than April 30, 2018, the 
     Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees the strategy required by subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--If the report is submitted in classified form, 
     the report shall be accompanied by an unclassified summary.
       (e) Comptroller General Assessment.--
       (1) Assessment.--The Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall conduct an assessment of the modernization 
     strategy required by subsection (a).
       (2) Focus.--In carrying out the assessment under paragraph 
     (1), the Comptroller General shall focus on evaluating--
       (A) the development of the modernization priorities of the 
     Army for the five-year period beginning on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act;
       (B) how the Army is balancing and resourcing such 
     priorities with efforts to rebuild and sustain readiness and 
     increase force structure capacity over such period; and
       (C) the extent to which the Army has balanced its near-term 
     modernization efforts with its long-term strategy for 
     acquiring new capabilities.
       (3) Congressional reporting.--
       (A) Briefing.--Not later than May 1, 2018, the Comptroller 
     General shall provide to the congressional defense committees 
     a briefing on the preliminary assessment of the Comptroller 
     General under paragraph (1).
       (B) Report.--The Comptroller General shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the final 
     assessment of the Comptroller General under such paragraph.
       (f) Total Army Defined.--In this section, the term ``total 
     Army'' means the active components and the reserve components 
     of the Army.

     SEC. 1062. REPORT ON ARMY PLAN TO IMPROVE OPERATIONAL UNIT 
                   READINESS BY REDUCING NUMBER OF NON-DEPLOYABLE 
                   SOLDIERS ASSIGNED TO OPERATIONAL UNITS.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the plans of the 
     Army to improve operational unit readiness in the Army by 
     reducing the number of non-deployable soldiers assigned to 
     operational units of the Army and replacing such soldiers 
     with soldiers capable of world-wide deployment.

     SEC. 1063. EFFORTS TO COMBAT PHYSIOLOGICAL EPISODES ON 
                   CERTAIN NAVY AIRCRAFT.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter until 
     January 1, 2020, the Secretary of the Navy shall provide to 
     the congressional defense committees information on efforts 
     by the Navy's Physiological Episode Team to combat the 
     prevalence of physiological episodes in F/A-18 Hornet and 
     Super Hornet, EA-18G Growler, and T-45 Goshawk aircraft.
       (b) Elements.--The information required under subsection 
     (a) shall include the following elements:
       (1) A description of Naval Aviation Enterprise activities 
     addressing physiological episodes during the reporting 
     period.
       (2) An estimate of funding expended in support of the 
     activities described under paragraph (1).
       (3) A description of any planned or executed changes to 
     Physiological Episode Team structure or processes.
       (4) A description of activities planned for the upcoming 
     two quarters.
       (c) Form.--The information required under subsection (a) 
     may be provided in a written report or a briefing.

     SEC. 1064. STUDIES ON AIRCRAFT INVENTORIES FOR THE AIR FORCE.

       (a) Independent Studies.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for 
     the performance of three independent studies of alternative 
     aircraft inventories through 2030, and an associated force-
     sizing construct, for the Air Force.
       (2) Submittal to congress.--Not later than March 1, 2019, 
     the Secretary shall submit the results of each study to the 
     congressional defense committees.
       (3) Form.--The result of each study shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
       (b) Entities To Perform Studies.--The Secretary shall 
     provide for the studies under subsection (a) to be performed 
     as follows:
       (1) One study shall be performed by the Secretary of the 
     Air Force, in consultation with the Director of the Office of 
     Net Assessment.
       (2) One study shall be performed by a federally funded 
     research and development center.
       (3) One study shall be conducted by an independent, 
     nongovernmental institute which is described in section 
     501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt 
     from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code, and has 
     recognized credentials and expertise in national security and 
     military affairs.
       (c) Performance of Studies.--
       (1) Independent performance.--The Secretary shall require 
     the studies under this section to be conducted independently 
     of one another.
       (2) Matters to be considered.--In performing a study under 
     this section, the organization performing the study, while 
     being aware of current and projected aircraft inventories for 
     the Air Force, shall not be limited by such current or 
     projected aircraft inventories, and shall consider the 
     following matters:
       (A) The national security and national defense strategies 
     of the United States.
       (B) Potential future threats to the United States and to 
     United States air and space forces through 2030.
       (C) Traditional roles and missions of the Air Force.
       (D) Alternative roles and missions for the Air Force.
       (E) The force-sizing methodology and rationale used to 
     calculated aircraft inventory levels.
       (F) Other government and nongovernment analyses that would 
     contribute to the study through variations in study 
     assumptions or potential scenarios.
       (G) The role of evolving technology on future air forces, 
     including unmanned and space systems.
       (H) Opportunities for reduced operation and sustainment 
     costs.
       (I) Current and projected capabilities of other Armed 
     Forces that could affect force structure capability and 
     capacity requirements of the Air Force.
       (d) Study Results.--The results of each study under this 
     section shall--
       (1) identify a force-sizing construct for the Air Force 
     that connects national security strategy to aircraft 
     inventories;
       (2) present the alternative aircraft inventories 
     considered, with assumptions and possible scenarios 
     identified for each;
       (3) provide for presentation of minority views of study 
     participants; and
       (4) for the recommended inventories, provide--
       (A) the numbers and types of aircraft, the numbers and 
     types of manned and unmanned aircraft, and the basic 
     capabilities of each of such platforms;
       (B) describe the force-sizing rationale used to arrive at 
     the recommended inventory levels;

[[Page H8785]]

       (C) other information needed to understand the aircraft 
     inventories in basic form and the supporting analysis; and
       (D) options to address aircraft types whose retirement 
     commences before 2030.

     SEC. 1065. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REVIEW OF NAVY CAPABILITIES 
                   IN THE ARCTIC REGION.

       (a) Report on Capabilities.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the capabilities of the Navy in the Arctic region.
       (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include an analysis of the following:
       (A) The current naval capabilities of the Department of 
     Defense in the Arctic region, with a particular emphasis on 
     surface capabilities.
       (B) Any gaps that exist between the current naval 
     capabilities described in subparagraph (A) and the ability of 
     the Department to fully execute its updated strategy for the 
     Arctic region.
       (C) Any gaps in the capabilities described in subparagraph 
     (A) that require ice-hardening of existing vessels or the 
     construction of new vessels to preserve freedom of navigation 
     in the Arctic region whenever and wherever necessary.
       (D) An analysis and recommendation of which Navy vessels 
     could be ice-hardened to effectively preserve freedom of 
     navigation in the Arctic region when and where necessary, in 
     all seasons and weather conditions.
       (E) An analysis of any cost increases or schedule 
     adjustments that may result from ice-hardening existing or 
     new Navy vessels.
       (b) Comptroller General of the United States Review.--Not 
     later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary 
     submits the report required by subsection (a), the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a review of the report, 
     including any matters in connection with the report and the 
     review that the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
       (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) and the review 
     under subsection (b) shall each be submitted in unclassified 
     form, but may include a classified annex.

     SEC. 1066. COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF MARITIME INTELLIGENCE, 
                   SURVEILLANCE, RECONNAISSANCE, AND TARGETING 
                   CAPABILITIES.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than May 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report on maritime intelligence, 
     surveillance, reconnaissance, and targeting capabilities.
       (b) Comprehensive Review.--The report required in 
     subsection (a) shall include a comprehensive review of the 
     following elements for the 2025 and 2035 timeframes:
       (1) A description of the projected steady-state demands for 
     maritime intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and 
     targeting capabilities and capacity in each timeframe, 
     including protracted gray-zone or low-intensity 
     confrontations between the United States or its allies and 
     potential adversaries such as Russia, China, North Korea, and 
     Iran.
       (2) A description of potential warfighting planning 
     scenarios in which maritime intelligence, surveillance, 
     reconnaissance, and targeting capabilities will be required 
     in each prescribed timeframe, including the most demanding 
     such scenario.
       (3) A description of the undersea, surface, and air threats 
     for each scenario described in paragraph (2) that will 
     require maritime intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, 
     and targeting to be conducted in order to achieve warfighting 
     objectives.
       (4) An assessment of the sufficiency of maritime 
     intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and targeting 
     program capability and capacity to achieve the warfighting 
     objectives described in paragraph (3) in the most demanding 
     scenario described in paragraph (2), including the effects of 
     attrition.
       (5) Planned operational concepts, including a High level 
     operational concept graphic (OV-1) for each such concept, for 
     conducting maritime intelligence, surveillance, 
     reconnaissance, and targeting capabilities during steady 
     state operations and warfighting scenarios described in 
     paragraph (2), including consideration of distributed combat 
     operations in a satellite denied environment.
       (6) Specific capability or capacity gaps and risk areas in 
     the ability or sufficiency of maritime intelligence, 
     surveillance, reconnaissance, and targeting capabilities.
       (7) Potential mitigation or solutions to address the 
     capability and capacity gaps and risk areas identified in 
     paragraph (6), including new capabilities, increased 
     capacity, or new operating concepts that could be employed by 
     the Navy.
       (8) A description of the funding amount by fiscal year, 
     initial operational capability, and full operational 
     capability for each maritime intelligence, surveillance, 
     reconnaissance, and targeting program identified in paragraph 
     (4), based on the President's fiscal year 2019 future years 
     defense program, including unfunded and partially funded 
     programs.
       (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1067. REPORT ON THE NEED FOR A JOINT CHEMICAL-BIOLOGICAL 
                   DEFENSE LOGISTICS CENTER.

       Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     that includes the following:
       (1) A description of the operational need and requirement 
     for a consolidated Joint Chemical-Biological Defense 
     Logistics Center.
       (2) Identification of the specific operational requirements 
     for rapid deployment of chemical and biological defense 
     assets and the sustainment requirements for maintenance, 
     storage, inspection, and distribution of specialized 
     chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear equipment at 
     the Joint Chemical-Biological Defense Logistics Center.
       (3) A definition of program objectives and milestones to 
     achieve initial operating capability and full operating 
     capability.
       (4) Estimated facility and personnel resource requirements 
     for use in planning, programming, and budgeting.
       (5) An environmental assessment of proposed effects in 
     accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
     (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

     SEC. 1068. MISSILE TECHNOLOGY CONTROL REGIME CATEGORY I 
                   UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE SYSTEMS.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress a report providing an 
     evaluation of the impact to national security of current 
     United States policy regarding proliferation of complete 
     unmanned aerial vehicle systems under Category I of the 
     Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR).
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) An analysis of Category I unmanned aerial vehicles 
     (UAVs) in production globally and the countries that export 
     such systems, including the volume and location.
       (2) An evaluation of the impact of the MTCR presumption of 
     denial relating to Category I UAVs on identified United 
     States security interests, including the presumption's 
     nonproliferation benefits and the extent to which the 
     presumption may foster the growth of foreign UAV providers, 
     reducing United States Government influence and the 
     qualitative United States technological edge.
       (3) An evaluation of the potential risks and benefits to 
     security posed by exports of UAVs, whether or not covered by 
     Category I criteria, to identify characteristics that pose 
     particular concerns, such as speed, radar cross-section, 
     swarming capability, surveillance payload, low observable 
     features, armor, and anti-aircraft countermeasures.
       (4) A discussion of how the evaluation above should inform 
     United States Government and allied and partner licensing 
     guidance with respect to the MTCR presumption of denial and 
     its potential impacts, United States Government proposals for 
     revisions to the MTCR Guidelines, and differences among UAVs 
     (Category I, as well as Category II UAVs that pose particular 
     concerns).
       (5) Any other matters the Secretaries consider appropriate.
       (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1069. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INTERAGENCY VETTING OF FOREIGN 
                   INVESTMENTS AFFECTING NATIONAL SECURITY.

       (a) Plan and Recommendations Required.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in concurrence with the Secretary of State, the 
     Secretary of Treasury, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, shall assess and develop a plan and 
     recommendations for agencies of the United States Government, 
     other than the Department of Defense, to improve the 
     effectiveness of the interagency vetting of foreign 
     investments that could potentially impair the national 
     security of the United States.
       (b) Objectives.--The recommendations required by subsection 
     (a) shall have the following objectives:
       (1) To increase collaboration and coordination among 
     agencies of the United States Government in the 
     identification and prevention of foreign investments that 
     could potentially impair the national security of the United 
     States.
       (2) To increase collaboration and cooperation among the 
     United States Government and governments of United States 
     allies and partners on investments described in paragraph 
     (1), including through information sharing.
       (3) To increase collaboration and cooperation among 
     agencies of the United States Government to identify and 
     mitigate potential threats to critical United States 
     technologies from foreign state owned or state controlled 
     entities.
       (c) Analysis.--The recommendations required by subsection 
     (a) shall be based upon analysis of the following:
       (1) Whether the current interagency vetting processes and 
     policies place adequate focus on the potential threats 
     presented by influence of the foreign governments over 
     business entities seeking investment in the United States.
       (2) The current or projected major vulnerabilities of the 
     defense industrial base pertaining to foreign investment, 
     including in the areas of cybersecurity, reliance on foreign 
     suppliers in the defense supply chain access to materials 
     that are essential for national defense, and the use of 
     transportation assets and other critical infrastructure for 
     training, mobilizing, and deploying forces.
       (3) Whether the current interagency vetting process for 
     foreign investments--
       (A) requires additional resources to be effective;
       (B) permits the interagency establishment adequate time to 
     thoroughly review transactions and to conduct national 
     security threat assessments;

[[Page H8786]]

       (C) assesses the risks posed by transactions before they 
     are implemented; and
       (D) provides adequate monitoring and compliance of 
     agreements to mitigate such risks.
       (4) The counterintelligence risks posed by purchases or 
     leases of Federal land.
       (5) Whether and to what extent industrial espionage is 
     occurring against private United States companies to obtain 
     commercial secrets related to critical or foundational 
     technologies.
       (6) Whether and to what extent foreseeable foreign 
     investments have the potential to--
       (A) reduce any United States technological or industrial 
     advantage of the United States; or
       (B) increase the vulnerability of the United States to 
     information operations, including the purposeful 
     dissemination of false or misleading information to the 
     American public and the manipulation of American public 
     opinion on critical public policy issues.
       (7) Whether currently mandated annual reports to Congress 
     on the interagency vetting of foreign investments should be 
     revised to ensure that they provide valuable information.
       (d) Considerations.--The recommendations required by 
     subsection (a) shall take into consideration each of the 
     following:
       (1) Trends in foreign investment transactions, including 
     joint ventures, the sale of assets pursuant to bankruptcy, 
     and the purchase or lease of real estate in proximity to 
     Government installations that could impair national security.
       (2) Strategies used by foreign investors to exploit 
     vulnerabilities in existing foreign investment vetting 
     processes and regulations.
       (3) Any market distortion or unfair competition incurred by 
     foreign transactions that directly or indirectly impairs the 
     national security or the United States.
       (e) Reports.--
       (1) Interim report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
     the progress of the Secretary in developing the 
     recommendations required by subsection (a).
       (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth 
     the recommendations developed pursuant to subsection (a).
       (3) Form.--Each report under this subsection shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (4) Appropriate committees of congress.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
     House of Representatives;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
       (D) the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (E) the Committee on Finance of the Senate;
       (F) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives; and
       (G) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.

     SEC. 1070. BRIEFING ON PRIOR ATTEMPTED RUSSIAN CYBER ATTACKS 
                   AGAINST DEFENSE SYSTEMS.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
     Director of National Intelligence, shall provide to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
     Representatives a briefing on all attempts to breach, 
     intrude, or otherwise hack into Department of Defense systems 
     that--
       (1) occurred during the last 24-month period ending on the 
     date of the enactment of this Act; and
       (2) were attributable either to the government of the 
     Russian Federation or actors substantially supported by the 
     government of the Russian Federation.

     SEC. 1071. ENHANCED ANALYTICAL AND MONITORING CAPABILITY OF 
                   THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE.

       (a) Process.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish a process, or designate an existing process, for 
     enhancing the ability of the Department of Defense to 
     analyze, assess, and monitor the vulnerabilities of, and 
     concentration of purchases in, the defense industrial base.
       (2) Elements.--The process required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following elements:
       (A) Designation of a senior official responsible for 
     overseeing the development and implementation of the process.
       (B) Development or integration of tools to support 
     commercial due diligence and business intelligence or to 
     otherwise analyze and monitor commercial activity to 
     understand business relationships affecting the defense 
     industrial base.
       (C) Development of risk profiles of products, services, or 
     entities based on business intelligence, commercial due 
     diligence tools and data services.
       (D) As the Secretary determines necessary, integration with 
     intelligence sources to develop threat profiles of entities 
     attempting transactions with a defense industrial base 
     companies.
       (E) Other matters as the Secretary deems necessary.
       (3) Notification.--Not later than 90 days after 
     establishing or designating the process required by 
     subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees 
     on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives 
     notice in writing that such process has been established or 
     otherwise designated. Such notification shall include the 
     following:
       (A) Identification of the official required to be 
     designated under paragraph (2)(A).
       (B) Identification of the tools described in paragraph 
     (2)(B) that are currently available to Department of Defense 
     and any other tools available commercially or otherwise that 
     might contribute to enhancing the analytic capability of the 
     process.
       (C) Identification of, or recommendations for, any 
     statutory changes needed to improve the effectiveness of the 
     process.
       (D) Projected resources necessary to purchase any 
     commercially available tools identified under subparagraph 
     (B) and to carry out any statutory changes identified under 
     subparagraph (C).
       (b) Reporting.--
       (1) Consolidated report on vulnerabilities of, and 
     concentration of purchases in, the defense industrial base.--
       (A) Report required.--For each of fiscal years 2018 through 
     2023, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a consolidated report 
     that combines all of the reports required to be provided to 
     Congress for that fiscal year on the adequacy of, 
     vulnerabilities of, and concentration of purchases in the 
     defense industrial sector. Such consolidated report shall 
     include each of the following:
       (i) The report required under section 721(m) of the Defense 
     Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(m)) (relating to 
     concentrations of purchases of the defense industrial base).
       (ii) The report required under section 723(a) of the 
     Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4568(a)) (relating 
     to offsets in defense production).
       (iii) The report required under section 2504 of title 10, 
     United States Code (relating to annual industrial 
     capabilities).
       (iv) Any other reports the Secretary determines 
     appropriate.
       (B) Deadline.--A consolidated report under subparagraph (A) 
     shall be submitted by not later than March 31 of the fiscal 
     year following the fiscal year for which the report is 
     submitted.
       (2) Review of technology protection policy.--Not later than 
     270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report describing any need for 
     reforms of policies governing the export of technology or 
     related intellectual property, along with any proposed 
     legislative changes the Secretary believes are necessary.
       (3) Form of reports.--Each report submitted under this 
     subsection shall be in unclassified form, but may contain a 
     classified annex.
       (4) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     Senate.

     SEC. 1072. REPORT ON DEFENSE OF COMBAT LOGISTICS AND 
                   STRATEGIC MOBILITY FORCES.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than April 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report on the defense of combat logistics and strategic 
     mobility forces.
       (b) Covered Periods.--The report required by subsection (a) 
     shall cover two periods:
       (1) The period from 2018 through 2025.
       (2) The period from 2026 through 2035.
       (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include, for each of the periods covered by the report, the 
     following:
       (1) A description of potential warfighting planning 
     scenarios in which combat logistics and strategic mobility 
     forces will be threatened, including the most demanding 
     operational plan requiring such forces.
       (2) A description of the combat logistics and strategic 
     mobility forces capacity, including additional combat 
     logistics and strategic mobility forces, that may be required 
     due to losses from attacks under each scenario described 
     pursuant to paragraph (1).
       (3) A description of the projected capability and capacity 
     of subsurface threats to combat logistics and strategic 
     mobility forces for each scenario described pursuant to 
     paragraph (1).
       (4) A description of planned operating concepts for 
     defending combat logistics and strategic mobility forces from 
     subsurface, surface, and air threats for each scenario 
     described pursuant to paragraph (1).
       (5) An assessment of the ability and availability of United 
     States naval forces to defend combat logistics and strategic 
     mobility forces from the threats described pursuant to 
     paragraph (1), while also accomplishing other assigned 
     missions, for each scenario described pursuant to that 
     paragraph.
       (6) A description of specific capability gaps or risk areas 
     in the ability or availability of United States naval forces 
     to defend combat logistics and strategic mobility forces from 
     the threats described pursuant to paragraph (1).
       (7) A description and assessment of potential solutions to 
     address the capability gaps and risk areas identified 
     pursuant to paragraph (6), including new capabilities, 
     increased capacity, or new operating concepts that could be 
     employed by United States naval forces.
       (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (e) Combat Logistics and Strategic Mobility Forces 
     Defined.--In this section, the term ``combat logistics and 
     strategic mobility forces'' means the combat logistics force, 
     the Ready Reserve Force, and the Military Sealift Command 
     surge fleet.

[[Page H8787]]

  


     SEC. 1073. REPORT ON ACQUISITION STRATEGY TO RECAPITALIZE THE 
                   EXISTING SYSTEM FOR UNDERSEA FIXED 
                   SURVEILLANCE.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the acquisition strategy to recapitalize the existing system 
     for undersea fixed surveillance.
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     address the following matters:
       (1) A description of undersea fixed surveillance system 
     recapitalization requirements, including key performance 
     parameters and key system attributes as applicable.
       (2) Cost estimates for procuring a future system or 
     systems.
       (3) Projected dates for key milestones within the 
     acquisition strategy.
       (4) A description of how the acquisition strategy will 
     improve performance in the areas of detection and 
     localization compared to the legacy system to enable 
     effective performance against current, emerging, and future 
     threats over the life of the systems.
       (5) A description of how the acquisition strategy will 
     encourage competition and reward innovation for addressing 
     system performance requirements.

     SEC. 1074. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF REQUIREMENTS IN 
                   CONNECTION WITH THE ORGANIZATION OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL 
                   OPERATIONS FORCES AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a report on the implementation 
     of section 922 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2354) and the 
     amendments made by that section (in this section collectively 
     referred to as the ``covered authority'').
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) A statement of the responsibilities of the Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity 
     Conflict that is consistent with the covered authority, 
     including an identification of any responsibilities to be 
     divested by the Assistant Secretary pursuant to the covered 
     authority.
       (2) A resource-unconstrained analysis of manpower 
     requirements necessary to satisfy the responsibilities akin 
     to those of the Secretary of a military department that are 
     specified by the covered authority.
       (3) An accounting of civilian, military, and contractor 
     personnel currently assigned to the fulfillment of the 
     responsibilities akin to those of the Secretary of a military 
     department that are specified by the covered authority, 
     including responsibilities relating to budget, personnel, 
     programs and requirements, acquisition, and special access 
     programs.
       (4) A description of actions taken to implement the covered 
     authority as of the date of the report, including the 
     assignment of any additional civilian, military, or 
     contractor personnel to fulfill additional responsibilities 
     akin to those of the Secretary of a military department that 
     are specified by the covered authority.
       (5) An explanation how the responsibilities akin to those 
     of the Secretary of a military department that assigned to 
     the Assistant Secretary by the covered authority will be 
     fulfilled in the absence of additional personnel being 
     assigned to the office of the Assistant Secretary.
       (6) An assessment of whether the responsibilities specified 
     in section 138(b)(4) of title 10, United States Code, could 
     be accomplished more effectively if the Assistant Secretary 
     of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict 
     were elevated to an Under Secretary, including the potential 
     benefits and negative consequences of such a change.
       (7) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.

     SEC. 1075. REPORT ON THE GLOBAL FOOD SYSTEM AND 
                   VULNERABILITIES RELEVANT TO DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE MISSIONS.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall, in consultation with the heads of such components of 
     the Department of Defense as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate, submit to the congressional defense committees 
     an assessment of Department of Defense policies and 
     operational plans for addressing the national security 
     implications of global food system vulnerabilities.
       (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include, at a minimum, the following:
       (1) An evaluation of vulnerabilities in the global food 
     system that may affect the national security of the United 
     States and the Department of Defense roles, missions, and 
     capabilities in addressing such vulnerabilities, including 
     information technology, data management, and surveillance 
     capabilities for detection and assessment of food system 
     shocks with the potential to result in the deployment of the 
     Armed Forces or directly affect bilateral security interests 
     with allies or partners.
       (2) A characterization of how Department of Defense 
     strategy, policies, and plans, including the Unified Command 
     Plan, defense planning scenarios, operational plans, theater 
     cooperation plans, and other relevant planning documents and 
     procedures, account for food system vulnerabilities as 
     precursors to and components of protracted major state 
     conflicts, civil wars, insurgencies, or terrorism.
       (3) An evaluation of United States interests, including the 
     interests of allies and strategic partners, and potential 
     United States military operations, including thresholds for 
     ordering such operations, in regions where food system 
     instability represents an urgent and growing threat, 
     including due to the presence of destabilizing non-state 
     actors who may weaponize access to food.
       (4) An identification of opportunities to initiate or 
     further develop cooperative military-to-military 
     relationships to build partner capacity to avoid, minimize, 
     or control global and regional food system shocks.

             Subtitle G--Modernizing Government Technology

     SEC. 1076. DEFINITIONS.

       In this subtitle:
       (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
     Administrator of General Services.
       (2) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the Technology 
     Modernization Board established under section 1094(c)(1).
       (3) Cloud computing.--The term ``cloud computing'' has the 
     meaning given the term by the National Institute of Standards 
     and Technology in NIST Special Publication 800-145 and any 
     amendatory or superseding document thereto.
       (4) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
     the Office of Management and Budget.
       (5) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Technology 
     Modernization Fund established under section 1094(b)(1).
       (6) Information technology.--The term ``information 
     technology'' has the meaning given the term in section 3502 
     of title 44, United States Code.
       (7) IT working capital fund.--The term ``IT working capital 
     fund'' means an information technology system modernization 
     and working capital fund established under section 
     1093(b)(1).
       (8) Legacy information technology system.--The term 
     ``legacy information technology system'' means an outdated or 
     obsolete system of information technology.

     SEC. 1077. ESTABLISHMENT OF AGENCY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
                   SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION AND WORKING CAPITAL 
                   FUNDS.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``covered 
     agency'' means each agency listed in section 901(b) of title 
     31, United States Code.
       (b) Information Technology System Modernization and Working 
     Capital Funds.--
       (1) Establishment.--The head of a covered agency may 
     establish within the covered agency an information technology 
     system modernization and working capital fund for necessary 
     expenses described in paragraph (3).
       (2) Source of funds.--The following amounts may be 
     deposited into an IT working capital fund:
       (A) Reprogramming and transfer of funds made available in 
     appropriations Acts enacted after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, including the transfer of any funds for the 
     operation and maintenance of legacy information technology 
     systems, in compliance with any applicable reprogramming law 
     or guidelines of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives or transfer authority 
     specifically provided in appropriations law.
       (B) Amounts made available to the IT working capital fund 
     through discretionary appropriations made available after the 
     date of enactment of this Act.
       (3) Use of funds.--An IT working capital fund established 
     under paragraph (1) may only be used--
       (A) to improve, retire, or replace existing information 
     technology systems in the covered agency to enhance 
     cybersecurity and to improve efficiency and effectiveness 
     across the life of a given workload, procured using full and 
     open competition among all commercial items to the greatest 
     extent practicable;
       (B) to transition legacy information technology systems at 
     the covered agency to commercial cloud computing and other 
     innovative commercial platforms and technologies, including 
     those serving more than 1 covered agency with common 
     requirements;
       (C) to assist and support covered agency efforts to provide 
     adequate, risk-based, and cost-effective information 
     technology capabilities that address evolving threats to 
     information security;
       (D) to reimburse funds transferred to the covered agency 
     from the Fund with the approval of the Chief Information 
     Officer, in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, of 
     the covered agency; and
       (E) for a program, project, or activity or to increase 
     funds for any program, project, or activity that has not been 
     denied or restricted by Congress.
       (4) Existing funds.--An IT working capital fund may not be 
     used to supplant funds provided for the operation and 
     maintenance of any system within an appropriation for the 
     covered agency at the time of establishment of the IT working 
     capital fund.
       (5) Prioritization of funds.--The head of each covered 
     agency--
       (A) shall prioritize funds within the IT working capital 
     fund of the covered agency to be used initially for cost 
     savings activities approved by the Chief Information Officer 
     of the covered agency; and
       (B) may reprogram and transfer any amounts saved as a 
     direct result of the cost savings activities approved under 
     clause (i) for deposit into the IT working capital fund of 
     the covered agency, consistent with paragraph (2)(A).
       (6) Availability of funds.--
       (A) In general.--Any funds deposited into an IT working 
     capital fund shall be available for obligation for the 3-year 
     period beginning on the last day of the fiscal year in which 
     the funds were deposited.
       (B) Transfer of unobligated amounts.--Any amounts in an IT 
     working capital fund

[[Page H8788]]

     that are unobligated at the end of the 3-year period 
     described in subparagraph (A) shall be transferred to the 
     general fund of the Treasury.
       (7) Agency cio responsibilities.--In evaluating projects to 
     be funded by the IT working capital fund of a covered agency, 
     the Chief Information Officer of the covered agency shall 
     consider, to the extent applicable, guidance issued under 
     section 1094(b)(1) to evaluate applications for funding from 
     the Fund that include factors including a strong business 
     case, technical design, consideration of commercial off-the-
     shelf products and services, procurement strategy (including 
     adequate use of rapid, iterative software development 
     practices), and program management.
       (c) Reporting Requirement.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, and every 6 months thereafter, the 
     head of each covered agency shall submit to the Director, 
     with respect to the IT working capital fund of the covered 
     agency--
       (A) a list of each information technology investment 
     funded, including the estimated cost and completion date for 
     each investment; and
       (B) a summary by fiscal year of obligations, expenditures, 
     and unused balances.
       (2) Public availability.--The Director shall make the 
     information submitted under paragraph (1) publicly available 
     on a website.

     SEC. 1078. ESTABLISHMENT OF TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION FUND AND 
                   BOARD.

       (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``agency'' has 
     the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, United 
     States Code.
       (b) Technology Modernization Fund.--
       (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury a 
     Technology Modernization Fund for technology-related 
     activities, to improve information technology, to enhance 
     cybersecurity across the Federal Government, and to be 
     administered in accordance with guidance issued by the 
     Director.
       (2) Administration of fund.--The Administrator, in 
     consultation with the Chief Information Officers Council and 
     with the approval of the Director, shall administer the Fund 
     in accordance with this subsection.
       (3) Use of funds.--The Administrator shall, in accordance 
     with recommendations from the Board, use amounts in the 
     Fund--
       (A) to transfer such amounts, to remain available until 
     expended, to the head of an agency for the acquisition of 
     products and services, or the development of such products 
     and services when more efficient and cost effective, to 
     improve, retire, or replace existing Federal information 
     technology systems to enhance cybersecurity and privacy and 
     improve long-term efficiency and effectiveness;
       (B) to transfer such amounts, to remain available until 
     expended, to the head of an agency for the operation and 
     procurement of information technology products and services, 
     or the development of such products and services when more 
     efficient and cost effective, and acquisition vehicles for 
     use by agencies to improve Governmentwide efficiency and 
     cybersecurity in accordance with the requirements of the 
     agencies;
       (C) to provide services or work performed in support of--
       (i) the activities described in subparagraph (A) or (B); 
     and
       (ii) the Board and the Director in carrying out the 
     responsibilities described in subsection (c)(2); and
       (D) to fund only programs, projects, or activities or to 
     fund increases for any programs, projects, or activities that 
     have not been denied or restricted by Congress.
       (4) Authorization of appropriations; credits; availability 
     of funds.--
       (A) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated to the Fund $250,000,000 for each of 
     fiscal years 2018 and 2019.
       (B) Credits.--In addition to any funds otherwise 
     appropriated, the Fund shall be credited with all 
     reimbursements, advances, or refunds or recoveries relating 
     to information technology or services provided for the 
     purposes described in paragraph (3).
       (C) Availability of funds.--Amounts deposited, credited, or 
     otherwise made available to the Fund shall be available until 
     expended for the purposes described in paragraph (3).
       (5) Reimbursement.--
       (A) Reimbursement by agency.--
       (i) In general.--The head of an agency shall reimburse the 
     Fund for any transfer made under subparagraph (A) or (B) of 
     paragraph (3), including any services or work performed in 
     support of the transfer under paragraph (3)(C), in accordance 
     with the terms established in a written agreement described 
     in paragraph (6).
       (ii) Reimbursement from subsequent appropriations.--
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an agency may 
     make a reimbursement required under clause (i) from any 
     appropriation made available after the date of enactment of 
     this Act for information technology activities, consistent 
     with any applicable reprogramming law or guidelines of the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives.
       (iii) Recording of obligation.--Notwithstanding section 
     1501 of title 31, United States Code, an obligation to make a 
     payment under a written agreement described in paragraph (6) 
     in a fiscal year after the date of enactment of this Act 
     shall be recorded in the fiscal year in which the payment is 
     due.
       (B) Prices fixed by administrator.--
       (i) In general.--The Administrator, in consultation with 
     the Director, shall establish amounts to be paid by an agency 
     under this paragraph and the terms of repayment for 
     activities funded under paragraph (3), including any services 
     or work performed in support of that development under 
     paragraph (3)(C), at levels sufficient to ensure the solvency 
     of the Fund, including operating expenses.
       (ii) Review and approval.--Before making any changes to the 
     established amounts and terms of repayment, the Administrator 
     shall conduct a review and obtain approval from the Director.
       (C) Failure to make timely reimbursement.--The 
     Administrator may obtain reimbursement from an agency under 
     this paragraph by the issuance of transfer and 
     counterwarrants, or other lawful transfer documents, 
     supported by itemized bills, if payment is not made by the 
     agency during the 90-day period beginning after the 
     expiration of a repayment period described in a written 
     agreement described in paragraph (6).
       (6) Written agreement.--
       (A) In general.--Before the transfer of funds to an agency 
     under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (3), the 
     Administrator, in consultation with the Director, and the 
     head of the agency shall enter into a written agreement--
       (i) documenting the purpose for which the funds will be 
     used and the terms of repayment, which may not exceed 5 years 
     unless approved by the Director; and
       (ii) which shall be recorded as an obligation as provided 
     in paragraph (5)(A).
       (B) Requirement for use of incremental funding, commercial 
     products and services, and rapid, iterative development 
     practices.--The Administrator shall ensure--
       (i) for any funds transferred to an agency under paragraph 
     (3)(A), in the absence of compelling circumstances documented 
     by the Administrator at the time of transfer, that such funds 
     shall be transferred only on an incremental basis, tied to 
     metric-based development milestones achieved by the agency 
     through the use of rapid, iterative, development processes; 
     and
       (ii) that the use of commercial products and services are 
     incorporated to the greatest extent practicable in activities 
     funded under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (3), and 
     that the written agreement required under paragraph (6) 
     documents this preference.
       (7) Reporting requirements.--
       (A) List of projects.--
       (i) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Director shall maintain a list of 
     each project funded by the Fund, to be updated not less than 
     quarterly, that includes a description of the project, 
     project status (including any schedule delay and cost 
     overruns), financial expenditure data related to the project, 
     and the extent to which the project is using commercial 
     products and services, including if applicable, a 
     justification of why commercial products and services were 
     not used and the associated development and integration costs 
     of custom development.
       (ii) Public availability.--The list required under clause 
     (i) shall be published on a public website in a manner that 
     is, to the greatest extent possible, consistent with 
     applicable law on the protection of classified information, 
     sources, and methods.
       (B) Comptroller general reports.--Not later than 2 years 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years 
     thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States 
     shall submit to Congress and make publically available a 
     report assessing--
       (i) the costs associated with establishing the Fund and 
     maintaining the oversight structure associated with the Fund 
     compared with the cost savings associated with the projects 
     funded both annually and over the life of the acquired 
     products and services by the Fund;
       (ii) the reliability of the cost savings estimated by 
     agencies associated with projects funded by the Fund;
       (iii) whether agencies receiving transfers of funds from 
     the Fund used full and open competition to acquire the custom 
     development of information technology products or services; 
     and
       (iv) the number of IT procurement, development, and 
     modernization programs, offices, and entities in the Federal 
     Government, including 18F and the United States Digital 
     Services, the roles, responsibilities, and goals of those 
     programs and entities, and the extent to which they duplicate 
     work.
       (c) Technology Modernization Board.--
       (1) Establishment.--There is established a Technology 
     Modernization Board to evaluate proposals submitted by 
     agencies for funding authorized under the Fund.
       (2) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of the Board 
     are--
       (A) to provide input to the Director for the development of 
     processes for agencies to submit modernization proposals to 
     the Board and to establish the criteria by which those 
     proposals are evaluated, which shall include--
       (i) addressing the greatest security, privacy, and 
     operational risks;
       (ii) having the greatest Governmentwide impact; and
       (iii) having a high probability of success based on factors 
     including a strong business case, technical design, 
     consideration of commercial off-the-shelf products and 
     services, procurement strategy (including adequate use of 
     rapid, agile iterative software development practices), and 
     program management;
       (B) to make recommendations to the Administrator to assist 
     agencies in the further development and refinement of select 
     submitted modernization proposals, based on an initial 
     evaluation performed with the assistance of the 
     Administrator;
       (C) to review and prioritize, with the assistance of the 
     Administrator and the Director, modernization proposals based 
     on criteria established pursuant to subparagraph (A);
       (D) to identify, with the assistance of the Administrator, 
     opportunities to improve or replace multiple information 
     technology systems with a smaller number of information 
     technology services common to multiple agencies;

[[Page H8789]]

       (E) to recommend the funding of modernization projects, in 
     accordance with the uses described in subsection (b)(3), to 
     the Administrator;
       (F) to monitor, in consultation with the Administrator, 
     progress and performance in executing approved projects and, 
     if necessary, recommend the suspension or termination of 
     funding for projects based on factors including the failure 
     to meet the terms of a written agreement described in 
     subsection (b)(6); and
       (G) to monitor the operating costs of the Fund.
       (3) Membership.--The Board shall consist of 7 voting 
     members.
       (4) Chair.--The Chair of the Board shall be the 
     Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government.
       (5) Permanent members.--The permanent members of the Board 
     shall be--
       (A) the Administrator of the Office of Electronic 
     Government; and
       (B) a senior official from the General Services 
     Administration having technical expertise in information 
     technology development, appointed by the Administrator, with 
     the approval of the Director.
       (6) Additional members of the board.--
       (A) Appointment.--The other members of the Board shall be--
       (i) 1 employee of the National Protection and Programs 
     Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security, appointed 
     by the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
       (ii) 4 employees of the Federal Government primarily having 
     technical expertise in information technology development, 
     financial management, cybersecurity and privacy, and 
     acquisition, appointed by the Director.
       (B) Term.--Each member of the Board described in paragraph 
     (A) shall serve a term of 1 year, which shall be renewable 
     not more than 4 times at the discretion of the appointing 
     Secretary or Director, as applicable.
       (7) Prohibition on compensation.--Members of the Board may 
     not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason 
     of their service on the Board.
       (8) Staff.--Upon request of the Chair of the Board, the 
     Director and the Administrator may detail, on a reimbursable 
     or nonreimbursable basis, any employee of the Federal 
     Government to the Board to assist the Board in carrying out 
     the functions of the Board.
       (d) Responsibilities of Administrator.--
       (1) In general.--In addition to the responsibilities 
     described in subsection (b), the Administrator shall support 
     the activities of the Board and provide technical support to, 
     and, with the concurrence of the Director, oversight of, 
     agencies that receive transfers from the Fund.
       (2) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of the 
     Administrator are--
       (A) to provide direct technical support in the form of 
     personnel services or otherwise to agencies transferred 
     amounts under subsection (b)(3)(A) and for products, 
     services, and acquisition vehicles funded under subsection 
     (b)(3)(B);
       (B) to assist the Board with the evaluation, 
     prioritization, and development of agency modernization 
     proposals.
       (C) to perform regular project oversight and monitoring of 
     approved agency modernization projects, in consultation with 
     the Board and the Director, to increase the likelihood of 
     successful implementation and reduce waste; and
       (D) to provide the Director with information necessary to 
     meet the requirements of subsection (b)(7).
       (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the 
     date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
       (f) Sunset.--
       (1) In general.--On and after the date that is 2 years 
     after the date on which the Comptroller General of the United 
     States issues the third report required under subsection 
     (b)(7)(B), the Administrator may not award or transfer funds 
     from the Fund for any project that is not already in progress 
     as of such date.
       (2) Transfer of unobligated amounts.--Not later than 90 
     days after the date on which all projects that received an 
     award from the Fund are completed, any amounts in the Fund 
     shall be transferred to the general fund of the Treasury and 
     shall be used for deficit reduction.
       (3) Termination of technology modernization board.--Not 
     later than 90 days after the date on which all projects that 
     received an award from the Fund are completed, the Technology 
     Modernization Board and all the authorities of subsection (c) 
     shall terminate.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

     SEC. 1081. TECHNICAL, CONFORMING, AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.

       (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 113(j)(1) is amended by striking ``the 
     Committee on'' the first place it appears and all that 
     follows through ``of Representatives'' and inserting 
     ``congressional defense committees''.
       (2) Section 115(i)(9) is amended by striking ``section 
     1203(b) of the Cooperative Threat Reduction Act of 1993 (22 
     U.S.C. 5952(b))'' and inserting ``section 1321(a) of the 
     Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 
     U.S.C. 3711(a))''.
       (3) Section 122a(a) is amended by striking ``acting through 
     the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public 
     Affairs'' and inserting ``acting through the Assistant to the 
     Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs''.
       (4) Section 127(c)(1) is amended by striking ``the 
     Committee on'' the first place it appears and all that 
     follows through ``of Representatives'' and inserting 
     ``congressional defense committees''.
       (5) Section 129a(b) is amended by striking ``(as identified 
     pursuant to section 118b of this title)''.
       (6) Section 130f(b)(1) is amended by adding a period at the 
     end.
       (7) Section 139b(c)(2) is amended by inserting a period at 
     the end of subparagraph (K).
       (8) Section 153(a) is amended by inserting a colon after 
     ``the following'' in the matter preceding paragraph (1).
       (9) Section 162(a)(4) is amended by striking the comma 
     after ``command of''.
       (10) Section 164(a)(1)(B) is amended by striking ``section 
     664(f)'' and inserting ``section 664(d)''.
       (11) Section 166(c) is amended by striking ``section 2011'' 
     and inserting ``section 322''.
       (12) Section 167b(e)(2)(A)(iii)(II) is amended by striking 
     ``Fiscal Year 2014'' and inserting ``Fiscal Year 2016''.
       (13) Section 171a is amended--
       (A) in subsection (f), by striking ``(4))'' and inserting 
     ``(4)))''; and
       (B) in subsection (i)(3), by striking ``section 2366(e)'' 
     and inserting ``sections 2366(e) and 2366a(d)''.
       (14) Section 179(f)(3)(B)(iii) is amended by striking 
     ``Joints'' and inserting ``Joint''.
       (15) Section 181(b)(1) is amended by striking ``section 
     118'' and inserting ``section 113(g)''.
       (16) Section 222(b) is amended by striking ``both'' through 
     the period at the end and inserting ``major force 
     programs.''.
       (17) Section 342(j)(2) is amended by striking the second 
     period at the end.
       (18) Section 347(a)(1)(A) is amended by inserting 
     ``section'' in clauses (i) and (iii) after ``Academy under''.
       (19) Section 494(b)(2)(B) is amended by striking ``of title 
     10'' and inserting ``of this title''.
       (20) Section 661(c) is amended by striking ``section 
     664(f)'' in paragraphs (1)(B)(i) and (3)(A) and inserting 
     ``section 664(d)''.
       (21) Section 801 (article 1 of the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by 
     striking ``chapter:'' and inserting ``chapter (the Uniform 
     Code of Military Justice):''.
       (22) Section 806b(b) (article 6b(b) of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice) is amended by striking ``(the Uniform Code 
     of Military Justice)''.
       (23) Section 1073c(a)(1)(E) is amended by striking 
     ``miliary'' and inserting ``military''.
       (24) Section 1074g(a)(9) is amended by moving subparagraphs 
     (B) and (C) two ems to the left.
       (25) Section 1451 is amended in subsections (a) and (b) by 
     striking ``section 1450(a)(4)'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``section 1450(a)(5)''.
       (26) Section 1452(c) is amended in paragraphs (1) and (3) 
     by striking ``section 1450(a)(4)'' both places it appears and 
     inserting ``section 1450(a)(5)''.
       (27) Subsection (i) of section 1552, as redesignated by 
     section 511(a)(1) of this Act, is amended by striking 
     ``calender'' each place it appears and inserting 
     ``calendar''.
       (28) Section 1553(f) is amended by striking ``calender'' 
     each place it appears and inserting ``calendar''.
       (29) Section 2264(b)(3) is amended by striking ``the date 
     of the'' and all the follows through ``2015'' and inserting 
     ``December 19, 2014''.
       (30) Section 2330a is amended--
       (A) in subsection (d)(1)(C), by striking ``management.;'' 
     and inserting ``management;''; and
       (B) in subsection (h)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``Performance-based.--'' 
     after ``(1)'';
       (ii) by designating the four paragraphs after paragraph (4) 
     as paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8), respectively;
       (iii) in paragraph (5), as redesignated, by inserting 
     ``Service acquisition portfolio groups.--'' after ``(5)''; 
     and
       (iv) in paragraph (6), as redesignated, by inserting 
     ``Staff augmentation contracts.--'' after ``(6)''.
       (31) Section 2334(a)(6)(B) is amended by adding a semicolon 
     at the end.
       (32) Section 2335 is amended by striking ``(2 U.S.C. 431 et 
     seq.)'' in subsections (c)(1) and (d)(3) and inserting ``(52 
     U.S.C. 30101 et seq.)''.
       (33) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 139 
     is amended by inserting at period at the end of the items 
     relating to sections 2372 and 2372a.
       (34) Section 2364(a)(6) is amended by striking ``conveys'' 
     and inserting ``convey''.
       (35) Section 2372 is amended by striking ``subsection 
     (c)(3)(A)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)(2)(A)''.
       (36) Section 2411(1)(D) is amended by striking ``(Public 
     Law 93-638; 25 U.S.C. 450b(l))'' and inserting ``(25 U.S.C. 
     5304(l))''.
       (37) The item relating to section 2431b in the table of 
     sections at the beginning of chapter 144 is amended to read 
     as follows:

``2431b. Risk management and mitigation in major defense acquisition 
              programs and major systems.''.
       (38) Section 2430 is amended by striking ``subsection 
     (a)(2)'' in subsections (b) and (c) and inserting 
     ``subsection (a)(1)(B)''.
       (39) Section 2431a(d) is amended by inserting ``(1)'' after 
     ``Review.--''.
       (40) Section 2446b(e) is amended--
       (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``in 
     writing that--'' and inserting ``in writing--''; and
       (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, that'' after ``open 
     system approach''.
       (41) Section 2548(e) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Requirements'' and all that follows 
     through ``by the Secretary'' and inserting ``Requirement.--
     The annual report prepared by the Secretary'';
       (B) by striking ``system; and'' and inserting ``system.''; 
     and
       (C) by striking paragraph (2).
       (42) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 152 
     is amended by inserting a period at the end of the item 
     relating to section 2567.
       (43) Section 2576a(b) is amended by striking ``and'' at the 
     end of paragraph (4).

[[Page H8790]]

       (44) Section 2612(a) is amended by striking ``section 
     2166(f)(4)'' and inserting ``section 343(f)(4)''.
       (45) Section 2662(f)(1)(D) is amended by striking ``section 
     334'' and inserting ``section 254''.
       (46) Section 2667(e) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1)(E), by striking ``military museum 
     described in section 489(a) of this title'' and inserting 
     ``military museum'';
       (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``before January 1, 2005, 
     shall be deposited into the account'' and inserting ``shall 
     be deposited into the Department of Defense Base Closure 
     Account''; and
       (C) by striking paragraph (5).
       (47) Section 2667(k) is amended by striking ``section 
     9101'' and inserting ``section 8101''.
       (48) Section 2925(b)(1) is amended by striking ``section 
     138c'' and inserting ``section 2926(b)''.
       (49) Chapter 449 is amended--
       (A) by striking the second section 4781; and
       (B) in the table of sections, by striking the item relating 
     to the second section 4781.
       (50) Section 7235(e)(2) is amended by striking ``24 months 
     after the date of the enactment of this section'' and 
     inserting ``November 25, 2017,''.
       (51) The item relating to section 9517 in the table of 
     sections at the beginning of chapter 931 is amended by making 
     the first letter of the third word lower case.
       (b) Amendments Related to Repeal of Pending Authority To 
     Establish Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management 
     and Information.--
       (1) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
     2015.--Effective as of December 23, 2016, section 901 of the 
     Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3462), as amended by section 901(d) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2342), is further amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (j);
       (B) in subsection (l)(1), by striking subparagraph (A);
       (C) in subsection (m), by striking paragraphs (1) and (2); 
     and
       (D) in subsection (n), by striking paragraph (1).
       (2) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
     2016.--Effective as of November 25, 2015, subsection (f) of 
     section 883 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92), as added by section 
     1081(c)(5) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), is amended by striking 
     paragraph (1).
       (c) Technical Corrections Related to Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice Reform.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code 
     (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by the 
     Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-
     328), is further amended as follows:
       (A) Section 801 (article 1) is amended, in the matter 
     preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ``(the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice)'' after ``chapter''.
       (B) Subsection (b) of section 806b (article 6b), as amended 
     by section 5105 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2895) is amended by striking ``(the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice)''.
       (C) Subsections (b) and (c) of section 816 (article 16), as 
     amended by section 5161 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 
     (130 Stat. 2897) are amended by striking ``sections 825(d)(3) 
     and 829 of this title (articles 25(d)(3) and 29)'' each place 
     it appears and inserting ``sections 825(e)(3) and 829 of this 
     title (articles 25(e)(3) and 29)''.
       (D) Subsection (a)(4) of section 839 (article 39), as added 
     by section 5222(1) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2909), is amended by striking ``in non-capital cases 
     unless the accused requests sentencing by members under 
     section 825 of this title (article 25)'' and inserting 
     ``under section 853(b)(1) of this title (article 53(b)(1))''.
       (E) Subsection (i) of section 843 (article 43), as added by 
     section 5225(c) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2909), is amended by striking ``Dna Evidence.--'' and 
     inserting ``DNA Evidence.--''.
       (F) Section 848(c)(1) (article 48(c)(1)), as amended by 
     section 5230 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 
     2913), is further amended by striking ``section 866(g) of 
     this title (article 66(g))'' and inserting ``section 866(h) 
     of this title (article 66(h))''.
       (G) Section 853(b)(1)(B) (article 53(b)(1)(B)), as amended 
     by section 5236 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2937), is further amended by striking ``in a trial''.
       (H) Subsection (d) of section 853a (article 53a), as added 
     by section 5237 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2917), is amended by striking ``military judge'' the 
     second place it appears and inserting ``court-martial''.
       (I) Section 864(a) (article 64(a)), as amended by section 
     5328(a) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 2929), 
     is further amended by striking ``(a) (a) In General.--'' and 
     inserting ``(a) In General.--''.
       (J) Subsection (b)(1) of section 865 (article 65), as added 
     by section 5329 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2930), is amended by striking ``section 866(b)(2) of 
     this title (article 66(b)(2))'' and inserting ``section 
     866(b)(3) of this title (article 66(b)(3))''.
       (K) Subsection (f)(3) of section 866 (article 66), as added 
     by section 5330 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2932), is amended by inserting after ``Court'' the 
     first place it appears the following: ``of Criminal 
     Appeals''.
       (L) Section 869(c)(1)(A) (article 69(c)(1)(A)), as amended 
     by section 5333 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2935), is further amended by inserting a comma after 
     ``in part''.
       (M) Section 882(b) (article 82(b)), as amended by section 
     5403 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 2939), is 
     further amended by striking ``section 99'' and inserting 
     ``section 899''.
       (N) Section 919a(b) (article 119a(b)), as amended by 
     section 5401(13)(B) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2939), is further amended--
       (i) by striking ``928a, 926, and 928'' and inserting ``926, 
     928, and 928a''; and
       (ii) by striking ``128a 126, and 128'' and inserting ``126, 
     128, and 128a''.
       (O) Section 920(g)(2) (article 120(g)(2)), as amended by 
     section 5430(b) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2949), is further amended in the first sentence by 
     striking ``brest'' and inserting ``breast''.
       (P) Section 928(b)(2) (article 128(b)(2)), as amended by 
     section 5441 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 
     2954), is further amended by striking the comma after 
     ``substantial bodily harm''.
       (Q) Subsection (b)(2) of section 932 (article 132), as 
     added by section 5450 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 
     (130 Stat. 2957), is amended by striking ``section 1034(h)'' 
     and inserting ``section 1034(j)''.
       (R) Section 937 (article 137), as amended by section 5503 
     of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 2960), is 
     further amended by striking ``(the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice)'' each place it appears as follows:
       (i) In subsection (a)(1), in the matter preceding 
     subparagraph (A).
       (ii) In subsection (b), in the matter preceding 
     subparagraph (A).
       (iii) In subsection (d), in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1).
       (2) Cross-references to stalking.--Title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended as follows:
       (A) Section 673(a) is amended--
       (i) by striking ``920a, or 920c'' and inserting ``920c, or 
     930''; and
       (ii) by striking ``120a, or 120c'' and inserting ``120c, or 
     130''.
       (B) Section 674(a) is amended--
       (i) by striking ``920a, 920b, 920c, or 925'' and inserting 
     ``920b, 920c, or 930''; and
       (ii) by striking ``120a, 120b, 120c, or 125'' and inserting 
     ``120b, 120c, or 130''.
       (C) Section 1034(c)(2)(A) is amended by striking ``sections 
     920 through 920c of this title (articles 120 through 120c of 
     the Uniform Code of Military Justice)'' and inserting 
     ``section 920, 920b, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 
     120b, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice)''.
       (D) Section 1044e(g)(1) is amended--
       (i) by striking ``920a, 920b, 920c, or 925'' and inserting 
     ``920b, 920c, or 930''; and
       (ii) by striking ``120a, 120b, 120c, or 125'' and inserting 
     ``120b, 120c, or 130''.
       (3) Cross-reference in title 5.--Section 8312(b)(2)(A) of 
     title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking ``article 
     106 (spies), or article 106a (espionage)'' and inserting 
     ``article 103a (espionage), or article 106 (spies)''.
       (4) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
     shall take effect immediately after the amendments made by 
     the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328) take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that 
     Act (130 Stat. 2967).
       (d) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017.--Effective as of December 23, 2016, and as if included 
     therein as enacted, the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) Section 217(a)(2) (130 Stat. 2051) is amended by 
     striking ``section 821b'' and inserting ``section 821(b)''.
       (2) Section 233 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note; 130 Stat. 2061) is 
     amended in subsections (a)(1) and (b)(1), by striking 
     ``secretaries'' and inserting ``Secretaries''.
       (3) Section 728(b)(1) (130 Stat. 2234) is amended by 
     inserting ``(c)'' after ``Section 1073b''.
       (4) Section 805(a)(2) (130 Stat. 2255) is amended by 
     striking ``The table of chapters for title 10, United States 
     Code, is'' and inserting ``The tables of chapters at the 
     beginning of subtitle A, and at the beginning of part IV of 
     subtitle A, of title 10, United States Code, are''.
       (5) The matter to be inserted by section 824(d)(1)(B) (130 
     Stat. 2279) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(3)'' and inserting ``(4)''; and
       (B) by striking ``(4)'' and inserting ``(5)''.
       (6) Section 833(b)(2)(C) (130 Stat. 2284) is amended--
       (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``Section 2330a(j) of title 
     10, United States Code,'' and inserting ``Section 2330a(h) of 
     title 10, United States Code, as redesignated by section 
     812(d),''; and
       (B) in clause (iii), in the matter proposed to be inserted, 
     by striking ``section 2330a(j)'' and inserting ``section 
     2330a(h)''.
       (7) Section 865(b)(2) (130 Stat. 2305) is amended by 
     striking ``section 2330a(g)(5)'' and inserting ``section 
     2330a(h)(4)''.
       (8) Section 893(c) (130 Stat. 2324) is amended by inserting 
     ``paragraph (2) of'' after ``is further amended in''.
       (9) Section 902(b) (130 Stat. 2344) is amended by striking 
     ``Section 151(b)(5)'' and inserting ``Section 131(b)(5)''.
       (10) Section 921(c) (130 Stat. 2351) is amended by 
     inserting after ``The text of'' the following: ``subsection 
     (a) (after the subsection heading)''.
       (11) Section 1061(c)(23) (130 Stat. 2400) is amended by 
     striking ``488(c)'' and inserting ``488''.
       (12) Section 1061(i) (130 Stat. 2404) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (23), by striking ``2010 (Public Law 110-
     417)'' and inserting ``2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 
     prec. 701 note)''; and
       (B) in paragraph (24), by striking ``2010'' and inserting 
     ``2009''.
       (13) Section 1064(b) (130 Stat. 2409) is amended by 
     striking ``Public Law 113-239'' and inserting ``Public Law 
     112-239''.
       (14) Section 1253(b) (130 Stat. 2532) is amended by 
     striking ``this subchapter'' both places it appears and 
     inserting ``this subtitle''.

[[Page H8791]]

       (15) Section 2811(c) (130 Stat. 2716) is amended by 
     striking ``, and the provisions of law amended by subsections 
     (a) and (b) of that section shall be restored as if such 
     section had not been enacted into law''.
       (16) Section 2829E(a) (130 Stat. 2733) is amended by 
     striking paragraph (3).
       (17) Section 5225(f) (130 Stat. 2910) is amended by 
     striking ``this subsection'' and inserting ``this section''.
       (18) The table of sections to be inserted by section 5452 
     (130 Stat. 2958) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Art.'' each place it appears, except the 
     first place it appears;
       (B) in the item relating to section 887a, by striking 
     ``Resistence'' and inserting ``Resistance'';
       (C) in the item relating to section 908, by striking ``of 
     the United States-Loss'' and inserting ``of United States-
     Loss,'';
       (D) in the item relating to section 909, by striking ``of 
     the'' and inserting ``of''; and
       (E) in the item relating to section 909a, by striking the 
     second period at the end.
       (19) The matters to be inserted by section 5541 (130 Stat. 
     2965) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Art.'' each place it appears;
       (B) by striking ``825.'' and inserting ``825a.''; and
       (C) by striking ``830.'' and inserting ``830a.''.
       (e) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2016.--Effective as of November 25, 2015, and as if included 
     therein as enacted, section 574 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 831) is amended by striking ``1785 note'' both 
     places it appears and inserting ``1788 note''.
       (f) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015.--Effective as of December 19, 2014, and as if included 
     therein as enacted, section 1044(a)(2)(A) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
     113-291; 128 Stat. 3493) is amended by striking ``October 
     28'' and inserting ``September 30''.
       (g) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011.--Effective as of January 7, 2011, and as if included 
     therein as enacted, section 896(b) of the Ike Skelton 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 
     (Public Law 111-398; 124 Stat. 4315) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Chapter'' and inserting 
     ``Subchapter II of chapter''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``chapter'' and inserting 
     ``subchapter''.
       (h) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2009.--Section 943(d)(1) of the Duncan Hunter National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
     110-417), as amended by section 1205(c)(2) of Public Law 112-
     81 (125 Stat. 1623), is further amended by striking the 
     second period at the end of the first sentence.
       (i) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2004.--Section 1022(e) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 U.S.C. 271 
     note) is amended by striking ``section 1004(j)'' and all that 
     follows through the end of the subsection and inserting 
     ``section 284(i) of title 10, United States Code''.
       (j) Coordination With Other Amendments Made by This Act.--
     For purposes of applying amendments made by provisions of 
     this Act other than this section, the amendments made by this 
     section shall be treated as having been enacted immediately 
     before any such amendments by other provisions of this Act.

     SEC. 1082. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN 
                   PROVISIONS OF LAW TO CIVILIAN JUDGES OF THE 
                   UNITED STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION 
                   REVIEW.

       Section 950f(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(5)(A) For purposes of sections 203, 205, 207, 208, and 
     209 of title 18, the term `special Government employee' shall 
     include a judge of the Court appointed under paragraph (3).
       ``(B) A person appointed as a judge of the Court under 
     paragraph (3) shall be considered to be an officer or 
     employee of the United States with respect to such person's 
     status as a judge, but only during periods in which such 
     person is performing the duties of such a judge. Any 
     provision of law that prohibits or limits the political or 
     business activities of an employee of the United States shall 
     only apply to such a judge during such periods.''.

     SEC. 1083. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT RELATING TO CONVERSION 
                   OF CERTAIN MILITARY TECHNICIAN (DUAL STATUS) 
                   POSITIONS TO CIVILIAN POSITIONS.

       (a) Revised Reduction.--Section 1053(a)(1) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
     114-92; 10 U.S.C. 10216 note), as amended by section 
     1084(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2421), is 
     further amended by striking ``20 percent'' and inserting 
     ``12.6 percent''.
       (b) Technical Correction.--Section 1084(a)(2) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2421), is amended by striking 
     ``paragraph (2)'' and inserting ``paragraph (2)(A)''.

     SEC. 1084. NATIONAL GUARD ACCESSIBILITY TO DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE ISSUED UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Review Required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, 
     in coordination with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, 
     the Commander of United States Northern Command, and the 
     Commander of United States Pacific Command, shall conduct an 
     efficiency and effectiveness review of the governance 
     structure, coordination processes, documentation, and timing 
     and deadline requirements stipulated in Department of Defense 
     Policy Memorandum 15-002, entitled ``Guidance for the 
     Domestic Use of Unmanned Aircraft Systems'' and dated 
     February 17, 2015. In conducting the review, the Secretary 
     shall take into account information and data points provided 
     by State governors and State adjutant generals in assessing 
     the efficiency and effectiveness of accessing Department of 
     Defense issued unmanned aircraft systems for State and 
     National Guard operations.
       (b) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after 
     the completion of the review required by subsection (a), the 
     Secretary shall submit the review to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1085. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING AIRCRAFT CARRIERS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Naval aviation was born in the United States when 
     Eugene Ely launched from the deck of a United States Navy 
     ship on November 14, 1910, in a Curtiss Model D.
       (2) In 1915, Cpt. Henry C. Mustin made the first catapult 
     launch aboard a ship underway in a Curtiss Model AB-2, 
     beginning a century of technological advancements that have 
     led to today's Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System.
       (3) In 1924, Lt. Dixie Kiefer made the first night catapult 
     launch in a Vought UO-1 in San Diego harbor.
       (4) The first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, USS 
     Enterprise (CVN 65), was commissioned in 1961, ushering in a 
     new era of the world's most dominant and capable warships.
       (5) In 2013, aircraft carrier USS George Washington (CVN 
     73) provided humanitarian assistance, medical supplies, food, 
     and water to the victims in the Republic of the Philippines 
     of Super Typhoon Haiyan, once again demonstrating the 
     versatility of aircraft carriers for combat, diplomatic, and 
     humanitarian operations.
       (6) In 2017, the first of the next generation of aircraft 
     carriers, USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), was commissioned, 
     marking a continuation of the innovative naval aviation 
     spirit, technological advancement, and war fighting 
     capabilities of aircraft carriers.
       (7) For over 70 years, aircraft carriers have been employed 
     in every major and many smaller conflicts, including World 
     War II, Korea, Vietnam, Grenada, Lebanon, Libya, Operation 
     Desert Storm, Afghanistan, Iraq, and the fight against 
     terrorism.
       (8) The United States Navy's aircraft carriers are a 
     cornerstone of the Nation's ability to project its power and 
     strength.
       (9) When aircraft carriers sail the globe they are a 
     statement of national purpose and a symbol of the Nation's 
     industrial strength, competitive edge, and economic 
     prosperity.
       (10) Aircraft carriers are 4.5 acres of sovereign United 
     States territory enabling the Nation to reduce its dependency 
     on other nations while it pursues its national security 
     interests.
       (11) Aircraft carriers enable the United States Armed 
     Forces to carry out operations from international waters, 
     often obviating the need to obtain fly-over rights and land-
     base rights from other nations.
       (12) Aircraft carriers are modern, mobile United States 
     military bases complete with airfield, hospital, and 
     communications systems from which the United States can 
     strike at its enemies.
       (13) Over 90 percent of world trade is moved by sea, 
     including much of the world's gas and oil supply, and 
     aircraft carriers patrol vital regions of the world to keep 
     shipping lanes open and protect the interests of the United 
     States and its allies.
       (14) There are more than 2,450 companies in 48 States and 
     over 364 congressional districts, and more than 13,100 
     shipbuilders, who proudly contribute to the construction and 
     maintenance of these complex and technologically advanced 
     ships.
       (15) Thousands of members of the United States Armed Forces 
     have served the Nation aboard aircraft carriers in war, 
     peace, and times of crisis.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) United States aircraft carriers are premier sea-based 
     power projection platforms and have served the Nation's 
     interests in times of war and peace, adapting to the 
     immediate and ever-changing nature of the world for over 90 
     years; and
       (2) aircraft carrier contributions and heritage should be 
     celebrated.

     SEC. 1086. SENSE OF CONGRESS RECOGNIZING THE UNITED STATES 
                   NAVY SEABEES.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) On March 5, 1942, Navy Construction Force personnel, 
     known as the ``Seabees'', were officially established by the 
     Navy Department.
       (2) The purpose of the Navy Seabees is to build, maintain, 
     and support base infrastructure in remote locations for the 
     Navy and Marine Corps, while simultaneously being capable of 
     engaging in combat operations.
       (3) The Navy Seabees dual-role is exemplified by the Seabee 
     motto Construimus, Batuimus: We Build, We Fight.
       (4) Throughout their history, the Navy Seabees have 
     answered the call of duty to protect the United States and 
     its democratic values both in times of war and peace.
       (5) The Navy Seabees support United States national 
     security at Navy fleet and combatant commands worldwide, 
     through the construction, both on land and underwater, of 
     bases, airfields, roads, bridges, and other infrastructure.
       (6) The Navy Seabees and their families have demonstrated 
     unmatched courage and dedication to sacrifice for the United 
     States, from service in World War II, Korea, and Vietnam to 
     the recent conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere.

[[Page H8792]]

       (7) The Navy Seabees exhibit honor, personal courage, and 
     commitment as they sacrifice their personal comfort to keep 
     the United States safe from threats.
       (8) The Navy Seabees continue to display strength, 
     professionalism, and bravery in the all-volunteer force.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress recognizes the United 
     States Navy Seabees and the Navy personnel who comprise the 
     construction force for the Navy and the Marine Corps as 
     critical elements in deterring conflict, overcoming 
     aggression, and rebuilding democratic institutions.

     SEC. 1087. CONSTRUCTION OF MEMORIAL TO THE CREW OF THE APOLLO 
                   I LAUNCH TEST ACCIDENT AT ARLINGTON NATIONAL 
                   CEMETERY.

       Subject to applicable requirements of section 2409(b)(2)(E) 
     of title 38, United States Code, the Secretary of the Army, 
     in consultation with the Administrator of the National 
     Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Commission of Fine 
     Arts, and the Advisory Committee on Arlington National 
     Cemetery, shall authorize the construction, at an appropriate 
     place in Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia, of a memorial 
     marker honoring the three members of the crew of the Apollo I 
     who died during a launch rehearsal test on January 27, 1967, 
     in Cape Canaveral, Florida. The memorial may not be 
     constructed in a location that is otherwise suitable as an 
     interment site.

     SEC. 1088. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ENGAGEMENT WITH COVERED NON-
                   FEDERAL ENTITIES.

       (a) Review of Current Guidance.--Not later than 120 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly conduct a 
     review of the guidance of the Department of Defense 
     applicable to Department of Defense engagements with covered 
     non-Federal entities.
       (b) Additional Guidance.--If the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Secretary of State determine pursuant to the review under 
     subsection (a) that additional guidance is required in 
     connection with Department of Defense engagements with 
     covered non-Federal entities, the Secretary of Defense, with 
     the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall, by not 
     later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, issue such additional guidance as the Secretaries 
     consider appropriate in light of the review. Any such 
     additional guidance shall be consistent with--
       (1) applicable law, as in effect on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act;
       (2) Department of Defense guidance with respect to 
     solicitation and preferential treatment, as in effect on the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, including such guidance 
     specified in the Department of Defense Joint Ethics 
     Regulations; and
       (3) the principle that the Department of State and the 
     United States Agency for International Development are the 
     principal United States agencies with primary responsibility 
     for providing and coordinating humanitarian and economic 
     assistance.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than 150 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary of State shall jointly provide to the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
     Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives a briefing on the findings of the review 
     required under subsection (a).
       (d) Covered Non-Federal Entity Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``covered non-Federal entity'' means an organization 
     that--
       (1) is based in the United States;
       (2) has an independent board of directors and is subject to 
     independent financial audits;
       (3) is substantially privately-funded;
       (4) is described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxation under 
     section 501(a) of such Code;
       (5) provides international assistance; and
       (6) has a stated mission of supporting United States 
     military missions abroad.

     SEC. 1089. PRIZE COMPETITION TO IDENTIFY ROOT CAUSE OF 
                   PHYSIOLOGICAL EPISODES ON NAVY, MARINE CORPS, 
                   AND AIR FORCE TRAINING AND OPERATIONAL 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       (a) In General.--Under the authority of section 2374a of 
     title 10, United States Code, and section 24 of the 
     Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
     3719), the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, the 
     Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the heads of any other 
     appropriate Federal agencies that have experience in prize 
     competitions, and when appropriate, in coordination with 
     private organizations, may establish a prize competition 
     designed to accelerate identification of the root cause or 
     causes of, or find solutions to, physiological episodes 
     experienced in Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force training and 
     operational aircraft.
       (b) Evaluation of Personnel.--The Secretary of Defense, or 
     the Secretary's designee, shall select the person or persons 
     to conduct the competition authorized in subsection (a) and 
     evaluate any submissions.
       (c) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may not exercise 
     the authority under subsection (a) before the date that is 15 
     days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits 
     to congressional defense committees certification in writing 
     that the use of the authority will not compromise classified 
     information, proprietary information, or intellectual 
     property.

     SEC. 1090. PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
                   IN RESPONSE TO CYBERSECURITY EVENTS.

       (a) Provision of Assistance.--If the Speaker of the House 
     of Representatives (or the Speaker's designee), with the 
     concurrence of the Minority Leader of the House of 
     Representatives (or the Minority Leader's designee), 
     determines that a cybersecurity event has occurred and that 
     containing, mitigating, or resolving the event exceeds the 
     resources of the House of Representatives, then 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law or any rule, 
     regulation, or executive order--
       (1) the Speaker may request assistance in responding to the 
     event from the head of any Executive department, military 
     department, or independent establishment;
       (2) not later than 24 hours after receiving the request, 
     the head of the department or establishment shall begin to 
     provide appropriate assistance in response to the incident, 
     including (if necessary) restoring the information systems of 
     the House to an operational state which allows for the 
     continuation of the legislative process and for Members, 
     officers, and employees of the House to continue to meet 
     their official and representational duties; and
       (3) such assistance shall be provided without reimbursement 
     by the House of Representatives.
       (b) Scope of Assistance.--
       (1) In general.--The assistance provided to the Speaker by 
     the head of a department or establishment under this section 
     may consist only of a type that the head of the department or 
     establishment is authorized under law to provide to the 
     department or establishment, another Executive department, 
     military department, or independent establishment, or a 
     private entity.
       (2) Connections between department or establishment and 
     house information systems.--In providing assistance under 
     this section--
       (A) personnel of a department or establishment may not log 
     onto the information systems of the House without the 
     authorization of the Speaker (or the Speaker's designee); and
       (B) personnel of a department or establishment may provide 
     the House with access to technological support services of 
     the department or establishment, including by authorizing 
     personnel or systems of the House to connect with and operate 
     services or programs of the department or establishment with 
     guidance from subject matter experts of the department or 
     establishment.
       (c) Termination of Assistance.--
       (1) Termination upon notice from speaker.--After initiating 
     assistance under this section, the head of the department or 
     establishment shall continue providing assistance until the 
     Speaker (or Speaker's designee) notifies the head of the 
     department or establishment that the cybersecurity incident 
     has terminated and that it is no longer necessary for the 
     department or establishment to provide post-incident 
     assistance.
       (2) Removal of technological support services.--Upon 
     receiving notice from the Speaker under paragraph (1), the 
     head of the department or establishment shall ensure that any 
     technological support services or programs of the department 
     or establishment are removed from the information systems of 
     the House, and that personnel of the department or 
     establishment are no longer monitoring such systems.
       (d) Compliance With Existing Standards.--In providing 
     assistance under this section, the head of the Executive 
     department, military department, or independent establishment 
     shall meet the requirements of section 113 of the Legislative 
     Branch Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31).
       (e) No Effect on Other Authority to Provide Support.--
     Nothing in this section may be construed to affect the 
     authority of an Executive department, military department, or 
     independent establishment to provide any support, including 
     cybersecurity support, to the House of Representatives under 
     any other law, rule, or regulation.
       (f) Definitions.--In this section, each of the terms 
     ``Executive department'', ``military department'', and 
     ``independent establishment'' has the meaning given such term 
     in chapter 1 of title 5, United States Code.

     SEC. 1091. TRANSFER OF SURPLUS FIREARMS TO CORPORATION FOR 
                   THE PROMOTION OF RIFLE PRACTICE AND FIREARMS 
                   SAFETY.

       (a) Transfer Requirement.--
       (1) In general.--During fiscal years 2018 and 2019, the 
     Secretary of the Army shall transfer surplus caliber .45 
     M1911/M1911A1 pistols described in paragraph (2) to the 
     Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms 
     Safety in accordance with this section.
       (2) Pistols described.--The pistols described in this 
     paragraph are surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols and 
     spare parts and related accessories for those pistols that, 
     on the date of the enactment of this section, are under the 
     control of the Secretary and are surplus to the requirements 
     of the Department of the Army.
       (3) Number to be transferred.--
       (A) Total number.--For any fiscal year, a total of not more 
     than 10,000 surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols may be 
     transferred to the Corporation under this section and section 
     40728 of title 36, United States Code.
       (B) Fiscal year 2018.--For fiscal year 2018, not less than 
     8,000 surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols shall be 
     transferred to the Corporation pursuant to this section.
       (4) Terms of transfers.--Subsections (b), (c), (d), (e), 
     and (g) of section 40728 of title 36, United States Code, 
     shall apply to a transfer under this section in the same 
     manner such subsections apply to transfers of firearms under 
     such section 40728.
       (5) Other requirements.--Except as provided in subsection 
     (b)(1), subchapter II of chapter 407 of title 36, United 
     States Code, shall apply with respect to firearms transferred 
     under this section.
       (b) Suspension of Discretionary Transfer Authority.--
       (1) In general.--During the period described in paragraph 
     (2), the Secretary of the Army may

[[Page H8793]]

     only transfer surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols to 
     the Corporation under the authority of this section and may 
     not transfer such pistols to such Corporation under section 
     40728 of title 36, United States Code.
       (2) Period described.--The period described in this 
     paragraph is the period beginning on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act and ending on the earlier of the 
     following dates:
       (A) The date that is 60 days after the date of the 
     enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2020.
       (B) June 1, 2020.
       (c) Conforming Repeal of Pilot Program for Transfer of 
     Pistols.--Section 1087 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1012) 
     is amended by striking subsections (b) and (c).
       (d) Reports on Transfers.--
       (1) In general.--For each fiscal year during which the 
     Secretary transfers surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols 
     under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
     a report detailing the transfer and sale of such pistols 
     during such fiscal year. A report under this paragraph for a 
     fiscal year shall be submitted not later than 5 days after 
     the budget of the President for the subsequent fiscal year is 
     submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United 
     States Code.
       (2) Contents of report.--Each report submitted under 
     paragraph (1) shall include, for the fiscal year covered by 
     the report--
       (A) the number of surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols 
     transferred to the Corporation under subsection (a);
       (B) the number of such pistols sold by the Corporation; and
       (C) to the extent feasible based on the information 
     available to the Secretary, information on any crimes 
     committed using any such pistols transferred to or sold by 
     the Corporation.
       (e) Evaluation of Corporation.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall 
     enter into an agreement with a Federally funded research and 
     development center with relevant expertise to conduct an 
     evaluation of the Corporation for the Promotion for Rifle 
     Practice and Firearms Safety for the purpose of assessing 
     future transfers of excess firearms to the Corporation.
       (2) Elements.--The evaluation required under paragraph (1) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (A) An assessment of the effectiveness of the Civilian 
     Marksmanship Program, including an examination of the 
     functions and activities of the Program, as described in 
     section 40722 of title 36, United States Code, that support 
     the mission of the Program.
       (B) A comparison the Civilian Marksmanship Program to 
     similar organizations that offer instruction in marksmanship, 
     firearm practice and safety, and opportunities for 
     marksmanship competitions.
       (C) An evaluation of benefits the Army receives from the 
     Civilian Marksmanship Program relative to the resources the 
     Army provides to the Program.
       (D) An assessment of present and prospective funding models 
     to support a transition to self-sustainment, including 
     opportunities for non-Federal resources.
       (E) An assessment of the costs and profits associated with 
     the transfer of excess firearms from the Army to the Civilian 
     Marksmanship Program (including the costs associated with the 
     storage, inspection, and, refurbishment of such firearms), 
     which shall be determined with respect to surplus caliber .45 
     M1911/M1911A pistols using data from a minimum of 8,000 sales 
     transactions.
       (F) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
       (3) Report to congress.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the results of 
     the evaluation by not later than January 1, 2019, and shall 
     provide interim briefings upon request.
       (f) Comptroller General Reviews.--
       (1) Concurrent review of corportion.--
       (A) In general.--At the same time as the Federally funded 
     research and development center conducts the evaluation under 
     subsection (d), the Comptroller General shall conduct a 
     review of the Corporation for the Promotion for Rifle 
     Practice and Firearms Safety.
       (B) Elements.--The review required under paragraph (1) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (i) A review of whether the procedures relating to sales of 
     surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A pistols covered by the 
     evaluation were conducted in accordance with applicable 
     Federal laws.
       (ii) A review of the business operations of the Civilian 
     Marksmanship Program in comparison to the business operations 
     of other Federally chartered organizations.
       (iii) An evaluation of any authorities or agreements 
     governing the relationship between the Army and the Program.
       (iv) An assessment of the financial operations of the 
     Civilian Marksmanship Program, including how the Program's 
     endowment is funded by the proceeds from sales of excess 
     weapons transferred to the Program from the Army.
       (v) An assessment of the costs and profits associated with 
     the transfer of excess firearms from the Army to the Civilian 
     Marksmanship Program, which shall be determined with respect 
     to surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols using data from 
     a minimum of 8,000 sales transactions.
       (vi) Any other matters the Comptroller General determines 
     are relevant.
       (C) Report to congress.--The Comptroller General shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the review required by subparagraph (A) by not later than 
     January 1, 2019.
       (2) Review of ffrdc report.--
       (A) In general.--The Comptroller General shall conduct a 
     review of the report submitted under subsection (d)(3).
       (B) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the Secretary 
     of the Army submits the report required under subsection 
     (d)(3), the Comptroller General shall provide to the 
     congressional defense committees a briefing on the 
     preliminary results of the review required by paragraph (1).
       (C) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the Secretary 
     submits such report, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees a report containing the 
     findings and recommendations of the Comptroller General 
     pursuant to the review required by paragraph (1).

     SEC. 1092. COLLABORATION BETWEEN FEDERAL AVIATION 
                   ADMINISTRATION AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ON 
                   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.

       (a) Collaboration.--
       (1) In general.--The Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration and the Secretary of Defense may collaborate 
     on sense-and-avoid capabilities for unmanned aircraft 
     systems.
       (2) Elements.--The collaboration described in paragraph (1) 
     may include, as appropriate, the following:
       (A) Sharing information on safely integrating unmanned 
     aircraft systems and manned aircraft in the national airspace 
     system.
       (B) The development of civil standards, policies, and 
     procedures for the Federal Aviation Administration for 
     integrating unmanned aircraft systems in the national 
     airspace system by leveraging the historical and current 
     testing, training, and operational experiences of the 
     Department of Defense, particularly the Air Force, of 
     unmanned flight operations
       (C) Informing stakeholders about--
       (i) the development of airborne and ground-based sense-and-
     avoid capabilities for unmanned aircraft systems; and
       (ii) research and development on unmanned aircraft systems, 
     especially with respect to matters involving human factors, 
     information assurance, and security.
       (b) Participation by FAA in DOD Activities.--
       (1) In general.--The Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration may participate, and provide assistance to the 
     Secretary of Defense for activities during the test and 
     evaluation efforts of the Department of Defense, including 
     the Air Force, relating to airborne and ground-based sense-
     and-avoid capabilities for unmanned aircraft systems.
       (2) Participation through test sites.--Participation under 
     paragraph (1) may include provision of assistance through 
     Department of Defense unmanned aircraft systems test sites or 
     a Federal Aviation Administration test range.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``unmanned 
     aircraft system'' and ``test range'' have the meaning given 
     such terms in section 331 of the FAA Modernization and Reform 
     Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note).
       (d) Restoration of Rules for Registration and Marking of 
     Unmanned Aircraft.--The rules adopted by the Administrator of 
     the Federal Aviation Administration in the matter of 
     registration and marking requirements for small unmanned 
     aircraft (FAA-2015-7396; published on December 16, 2015) that 
     were vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the 
     District of Columbia Circuit in Taylor v. Huerta (No. 15-
     1495; decided on May 19, 2017) shall be restored to effect on 
     the date of enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 1093. CARRIAGE OF CERTAIN PROGRAMMING.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``local commercial television station'' has 
     the meaning given the term in section 614(h) of the 
     Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 534(h));
       (2) the term ``multichannel video programming distributor'' 
     has the meaning given the term in section 602 of the 
     Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 522);
       (3) the term ``qualified noncommercial educational 
     television station'' has the meaning given the term in 
     section 615(l) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
     535(l));
       (4) the term ``retransmission consent'' means the authority 
     granted to a multichannel video programming distributor under 
     section 325(b) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
     325(b)) to retransmit the signal of a television broadcast 
     station; and
       (5) the term ``television broadcast station'' has the 
     meaning given the term in section 76.66(a) of title 47, Code 
     of Federal Regulations.
       (b) Carriage of Certain Content.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, a multichannel video programming 
     distributor may not be directly or indirectly required, 
     including as a condition of obtaining retransmission consent, 
     to--
       (1) carry non-incidental video content from a local 
     commercial television station, qualified noncommercial 
     educational television station, or television broadcast 
     station to the extent that such content is owned, controlled, 
     or financed (in whole or in part) by the Government of the 
     Russian Federation; or
       (2) lease, or otherwise make available, channel capacity to 
     any person for the provision of video programming that is 
     owned, controlled, or financed (in whole or in part) by the 
     Government of the Russian Federation.
       (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
     construed as applying to the editorial use by a local 
     commercial television station, qualified noncommercial 
     educational television station, or television broadcast 
     station of programming that is owned, controlled, or financed 
     (in whole or in part) by the Government of the Russian 
     Federation.

     SEC. 1094. NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING VIOLENT 
                   EXTREMISM.

       (a) Strategy Required.--

[[Page H8794]]

       (1) In general.--Not later than June 1, 2018, the President 
     shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     report on a comprehensive, interagency national strategy for 
     countering violent extremism.
       (2) Elements.--The comprehensive, interagency national 
     strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include the 
     following elements:
       (A) Identification of the interagency tools for combating 
     and countering violent extremism, including--
       (i) countering violent extremist messaging and ideological 
     support;
       (ii) combating violent extremist financing, intelligence 
     gathering, and cooperation;
       (iii) law enforcement activities, sanctions, 
     counterterrorism, and counterintelligence activities;
       (iv) support to civil-society groups, commercial entities, 
     allies, and counter radicalization activities; and
       (v) support by the Armed Forces of the United States to 
     combat violent extremism.
       (B) Use of, coordination with, or liaison to international 
     partners, non-governmental organizations, or commercial 
     entities that support United States policy goals in 
     countering violent extremist ideologies and organizations.
       (C) Synchronization processes for the use of interagency 
     tools to combat violent extremism, including the roles and 
     responsibilities of the Global Engagement Center, as well as 
     the National Security Council in coordinating the interagency 
     tools.
       (D) Recommendations for improving coordination between 
     Federal Government agencies, as well as with State, local, 
     international, and non-governmental entities.
       (E) Other matters as the President considers appropriate.
       (b) Assessment.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the submission of the strategy required by subsection (a), 
     the President shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
     Congress an assessment of the strategy, including--
       (1) the status of implementation of the strategy;
       (2) progress toward the achievement of benchmarks or 
     implementation of any recommendations; and
       (3) any changes to the strategy since such submission.
       (c) Form.--The report and assessment required by this 
     section shall each be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
     include a classified annex.
       (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, 
     the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
       (1) the Committees on Foreign Relations, Armed Services, 
     Appropriations, Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, 
     and the Judiciary and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate; and
       (2) the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Armed Services, 
     Appropriations, Homeland Security, and the Judiciary and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1095. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING WORLD WAR I.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The United States declared war against Germany on April 
     6, 1917, to redress wrongs, including Germany's resumption of 
     unrestricted submarine warfare, violation of United States 
     neutrality, meddling in Mexican affairs, and denial of 
     freedom of the seas to nonbelligerent nations.
       (2) The United States associated itself with the allied 
     powers of the United Kingdom and its Commonwealth, France and 
     its colonies, Russia, Italy, and Japan to defeat the German 
     Empire.
       (3) The United States Army, consisting of the Regular Army, 
     National Guard, and Reserve Corps, with the addition of 
     volunteers and the draftees of the National Army, underwent a 
     transformation from a frontier constabulary and coastal 
     defense force to a modern land warfare force.
       (4) Early 20th century military and technological advances 
     resulted in the incorporation of motor transport, aviation, 
     anti-aircraft artillery, tanks, chemical weapons, submarines 
     and anti-submarine warfare, underwater mines, and other 
     innovations into the military arsenal of the United States.
       (5) The need to quickly build a military strength of four 
     million soldiers and half a million sailors required the 
     mobilization of the human resources of the United States, 
     during which members of diverse ethnic groups, races, and 
     creeds, both native-born and immigrant, forged a new American 
     identity.
       (6) The United States Army maintained its defense of 
     American seacoasts, southern border, and overseas 
     possessions, while the Army American Expeditionary Forces 
     arrived in Europe in June 1917 and deployed for combat 
     operations in October.
       (7) By the end of World War I, almost 2,000,000 members of 
     the Army served overseas in the American Expeditionary 
     Forces.
       (8) During World War I, the United States Navy increased in 
     strength from approximately 67,000 sailors and marines to 
     approximately 500,000 sailors and marines by the war's end, 
     and the size of the Navy increased from around 200 ships at 
     the outbreak of war in Europe in 1914, to 342 vessels by the 
     time the United States entered the war, and 774 vessels by 
     the day of the Armistice
       (9) The Navy operated in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, 
     and the North and Mediterranean Seas in cooperation with 
     allied navies.
       (10) The Navy began the fight against the German U-boat 
     menace by first dispatching 34 destroyers stationed 
     specifically for such purpose, which by war's end grew to 110 
     total destroyers
       (11) Navy vessels escorted troop transports carrying 
     1,250,000 passengers and escorted supply transports carrying 
     27 percent of all cargo shipped to Europe.
       (12) The Navy deployed five batteries of large-caliber 
     battleship guns mounted on railroad trains to France for 
     service as long-range artillery for the Army.
       (13) The United States Coast Guard transferred to the 
     operational control of the Navy and augmented that service 
     with officers and sailors, vessels of all types, and shore 
     stations.
       (14) The United States Marine Corps, with an eventual 
     wartime strength of 53,000 officers and men, detached the 5th 
     and 6th regiments and a machine gun battalion to constitute 
     an infantry brigade integrated into the Army's 2d Division 
     for service in France.
       (15) On July 4, 1917, Colonel Charles E. Stanton, one of 
     the officers on the staff of General John Pershing, commander 
     of the American Expeditionary Forces in Europe, famously 
     announced the commitment of the United States to the fight 
     when Colonel Stanton proclaimed upon his arrival in France, 
     ``Lafayette, we are here!''.
       (16) Whereas the American Expeditionary Forces formed three 
     field armies, nine corps and 43 divisions, plus various units 
     of the Services of Supply.
       (17) The American Expeditionary Forces suffered 255,000 
     casualties and over 50,000 non-battle casualties while 
     participating in 13 named campaigns in World War I.
       (18) Participation in World War I resulted in the 
     completion of a period of reform and professionalism that 
     transformed the Armed Forces from a small dispersed 
     organization to a modern industrialized fighting force 
     capable of global reach and influence.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
       (1) honors the memory of the fallen heroes who wore the 
     uniform of the United States Armed Forces during World War I;
       (2) commends the Unites States Armed Forces for preserving 
     and protecting the interests of the United States during 
     World War I;
       (3) commends the brave members of the United States Armed 
     Forces for their courage while preserving the founding 
     principles of the United States at home and abroad during 
     World War I;
       (4) commends the brave members of the United States Armed 
     Forces for preserving and protecting the sea lanes of 
     commerce and communications during World War I that ensured 
     the continued prosperity of the United States;
       (5) celebrates and congratulates the United States Army, 
     Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard during the 
     commemoration of the centennial of World War I for a job well 
     done; and
       (6) calls on all people of the United States to join in the 
     commemoration of the centennial of World War I in events 
     throughout the United States and overseas.

     SEC. 1096. NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF TERMS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS.

       (a) Request of Settlement Agreements.--At the request of 
     the Chairman, in coordination with the Ranking Member, of the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the Senate or the House of 
     Representatives or the Chairman, in coordination with the 
     Ranking Member, of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate or the House of Representatives, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall make available (in an appropriate manner with 
     respect to classified or other protected information) to the 
     Chairman and Ranking Member of the requesting committee a 
     settlement agreement (including a consent decree) in any 
     civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction involving 
     the Department of Defense, a military department, or a 
     Defense Agency.
       (b) Provision of Settlement Agreements.--The Secretary 
     shall take all necessary steps to ensure the settlement 
     agreement is provided to the Chairman and Ranking Member of 
     the requesting committee, including by making any necessary 
     requests to a court with competent jurisdiction over the 
     settlement.

     SEC. 1097. OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL REAUTHORIZATION.

       (a) Adequate Access of Special Counsel to Information.--
     Section 1212(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(5)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the 
     Special Counsel, in carrying out this subchapter, is 
     authorized to--
       ``(i) have timely access to all records, data, reports, 
     audits, reviews, documents, papers, recommendations, or other 
     material available to the applicable agency that relate to an 
     investigation, review, or inquiry conducted under--
       ``(I) section 1213, 1214, 1215, or 1216 of this title; or
       ``(II) section 4324(a) of title 38;
       ``(ii) request from any agency the information or 
     assistance that may be necessary for the Special Counsel to 
     carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Special 
     Counsel under this subchapter; and
       ``(iii) require, during an investigation, review, or 
     inquiry of an agency, the agency to provide to the Special 
     Counsel any record or other information that relates to an 
     investigation, review, or inquiry conducted under--
       ``(I) section 1213, 1214, 1215, or 1216 of this title; or
       ``(II) section 4324(a) of title 38.
       ``(B)(i) The authorization of the Special Counsel under 
     subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to any entity 
     that is an element of the intelligence community, as defined 
     in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3003), unless the Special Counsel is investigating, or 
     otherwise carrying out activities relating to the enforcement 
     of, an action under subchapter III of chapter 73.

[[Page H8795]]

       ``(ii) An Inspector General may withhold from the Special 
     Counsel material described in subparagraph (A) if the 
     Inspector General determines that the material contains 
     information derived from, or pertaining to, intelligence 
     activities.
       ``(iii) The Attorney General or an Inspector General may 
     withhold from the Special Counsel material described in 
     subparagraph (A) if--
       ``(I)(aa) disclosing the material could reasonably be 
     expected to interfere with a criminal investigation or 
     prosecution that is ongoing as of the date on which the 
     Special Counsel submits a request for the material; or
       ``(bb) the material--
       ``(AA) may not be disclosed pursuant to a court order; or
       ``(BB) has been filed under seal under section 3730 of 
     title 31; and
       ``(II) the Attorney General or the Inspector General, as 
     applicable, submits to the Special Counsel a written report 
     that describes--
       ``(aa) the material being withheld; and
       ``(bb) the reason that the material is being withheld.
       ``(C)(i) A claim of common law privilege by an agency, or 
     an officer or employee of an agency, shall not prevent the 
     Special Counsel from obtaining any material described in 
     subparagraph (A)(i) with respect to the agency.
       ``(ii) The submission of material described in subparagraph 
     (A)(i) by an agency to the Special Counsel may not be deemed 
     to waive any assertion of privilege by the agency against a 
     non-Federal entity or against an individual in any other 
     proceeding.
       ``(iii) With respect to any record or other information 
     made available to the Special Counsel by an agency under 
     subparagraph (A), the Special Counsel may only disclose the 
     record or information for a purpose that is in furtherance of 
     any authority provided to the Special Counsel under this 
     subchapter.
       ``(6) The Special Counsel shall submit to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives, and each committee of Congress with 
     jurisdiction over the applicable agency a report regarding 
     any case of contumacy or failure to comply with a request 
     submitted by the Special Counsel under paragraph (5)(A).''.
       (b) Information on Whistleblower Protections.--
       (1) Agency responsibilities.--
       (A) Repeal.--Section 2307 of chapter 23 of title 5, United 
     States Code, and the item related to such section in the 
     table of sections for such chapter, is repealed.
       (B) Information on whistleblower protections.--Section 2302 
     of title 5, United States Code, is amended by--
       (i) redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as 
     subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
       (ii) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
       ``(c)(1) In this subsection--
       ``(A) the term `new employee' means an individual--
       ``(i) appointed to a position as an employee on or after 
     the date of enactment of this subsection; and
       ``(ii) who has not previously served as an employee; and
       ``(B) the term `whistleblower protections' means the 
     protections against and remedies for a prohibited personnel 
     practice described in paragraph (8) or subparagraph (A)(i), 
     (B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (9) of subsection (b).
       ``(2) The head of each agency shall be responsible for--
       ``(A) preventing prohibited personnel practices;
       ``(B) complying with and enforcing applicable civil service 
     laws, rules, and regulations and other aspects of personnel 
     management; and
       ``(C) ensuring, in consultation with the Special Counsel 
     and the Inspector General of the agency, that employees of 
     the agency are informed of the rights and remedies available 
     to the employees under this chapter and chapter 12, 
     including--
       ``(i) information with respect to whistleblower protections 
     available to new employees during a probationary period;
       ``(ii) the role of the Office of Special Counsel and the 
     Merit Systems Protection Board with respect to whistleblower 
     protections; and
       ``(iii) the means by which, with respect to information 
     that is otherwise required by law or Executive order to be 
     kept classified in the interest of national defense or the 
     conduct of foreign affairs, an employee may make a lawful 
     disclosure of the information to--
       ``(I) the Special Counsel;
       ``(II) the Inspector General of an agency;
       ``(III) Congress; or
       ``(IV) another employee of the agency who is designated to 
     receive such a disclosure.
       ``(3) The head of each agency shall ensure that the 
     information described in paragraph (2) is provided to each 
     new employee of the agency not later than 180 days after the 
     date on which the new employee is appointed.
       ``(4) The head of each agency shall make available 
     information regarding whistleblower protections applicable to 
     employees of the agency on the public website of the agency 
     and on any online portal that is made available only to 
     employees of the agency, if such portal exists.
       ``(5) Any employee to whom the head of an agency delegates 
     authority for any aspect of personnel management shall, 
     within the limits of the scope of the delegation, be 
     responsible for the activities described in paragraph (2).''.
       (2) Information on appeal rights.--
       (A) In general.--Any notice provided to an employee under 
     section 7503(b)(1), section 7513(b)(1), or section 7543(b)(1) 
     of title 5, United States Code, shall include detailed 
     information with respect to--
       (i) the right of the employee to appeal an action brought 
     under the applicable section;
       (ii) the forums in which the employee may file an appeal 
     described in clause (i); and
       (iii) any limitations on the rights of the employee that 
     would apply because of the forum in which the employee 
     decides to file an appeal.
       (B) Development of information.--The information described 
     in subparagraph (A) shall be developed by the Director of the 
     Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the 
     Special Counsel, the Merit Systems Protection Board, and the 
     Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
       (3) Technical and conforming amendments.--
       (A) Section 4505a(b)(2) of title 5, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``section 2302(c)'' and inserting 
     ``section 2302(d)''.
       (B) Section 5755(b)(2) of title 5, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``section 2302(c)'' and inserting 
     ``section 2302(d)''.
       (C) Section 110(b)(2) of the Whistleblower Protection 
     Enhancement Act of 2012 (5 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by 
     striking ``section 2302(e)(1) or (2)'' and inserting 
     ``section 2302(f)(1) or (2)''.
       (D) Section 1217(d)(3) of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 
     U.S.C. 3657(d)(3)) is amended by striking ``section 2302(c)'' 
     and inserting ``section 2302(d)''.
       (E) Section 1233(b) of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 
     U.S.C. 3673(b)) is amended by striking ``section 2302(c)'' 
     and inserting ``section 2302(d)''.
       (c) Additional Whistleblower Provisions.--
       (1) Prohibited personnel practices.--Section 2302 of title 
     5, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) in subsection (b)(9)(C), by inserting ``(or any other 
     component responsible for internal investigation or review)'' 
     after ``Inspector General''; and
       (B) in subsection (f)--
       (i) in paragraph (1)--

       (I) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (II) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (G); 
     and
       (III) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following:

       ``(F) the disclosure was made before the date on which the 
     individual was appointed or applied for appointment to a 
     position; or''; and
       (ii) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
       ``(2) If a disclosure is made during the normal course of 
     duties of an employee, the principal job function of whom is 
     to regularly investigate and disclose wrongdoing (referred to 
     in this paragraph as the `disclosing employee'), the 
     disclosure shall not be excluded from subsection (b)(8) if 
     the disclosing employee demonstrates that an employee who has 
     the authority to take, direct other individuals to take, 
     recommend, or approve any personnel action with respect to 
     the disclosing employee took, failed to take, or threatened 
     to take or fail to take a personnel action with respect to 
     the disclosing employee in reprisal for the disclosure made 
     by the disclosing employee.''.
       (2) Explanations for failure to take action.--Section 1213 
     of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``15 days'' and 
     inserting ``45 days''; and
       (B) in subsection (e)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Any such report'' and 
     inserting ``Any report required under subsection (c) or 
     paragraph (5) of this subsection'';
       (ii) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
       ``(2) Upon receipt of any report that the head of an agency 
     is required to submit under subsection (c), the Special 
     Counsel shall review the report and determine whether--
       ``(A) the findings of the head of the agency appear 
     reasonable; and
       ``(B) if the Special Counsel requires the head of the 
     agency to submit a supplemental report under paragraph (5), 
     the reports submitted by the head of the agency collectively 
     contain the information required under subsection (d).'';
       (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``agency report 
     received pursuant to subsection (c) of this section'' and 
     inserting ``report submitted to the Special Counsel by the 
     head of an agency under subsection (c) or paragraph (5) of 
     this subsection''; and
       (iv) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) If, after conducting a review of a report under 
     paragraph (2), the Special Counsel concludes that the Special 
     Counsel requires additional information or documentation to 
     determine whether the report submitted by the head of an 
     agency is reasonable and sufficient, the Special Counsel may 
     request that the head of the agency submit a supplemental 
     report--
       ``(A) containing the additional information or 
     documentation identified by the Special Counsel; and
       ``(B) that the head of the agency shall submit to the 
     Special Counsel within a period of time specified by the 
     Special Counsel.''.
       (3) Transfer requests during stays.--
       (A) Priority granted.--Section 1214(b)(1) of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (i) by striking subparagraph (E); and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(E) If the Board grants a stay under subparagraph (A), 
     the head of the agency employing the employee who is the 
     subject of the action shall give priority to a request for a 
     transfer submitted by the employee.''.
       (B) Probationary employees.--Section 1221 of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (i) by striking subsection (k); and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(k) If the Board grants a stay under subsection (c) and 
     the employee who is the subject of the action is in 
     probationary status, the head of the agency employing the 
     employee shall give

[[Page H8796]]

     priority to a request for a transfer submitted by the 
     employee.''.
       (4) Retaliatory investigations.--Section 1214 of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(i) The Special Counsel may petition the Board to order 
     corrective action, including fees, costs, or damages 
     reasonably incurred by an employee due to an investigation of 
     the employee by an agency, if the investigation by an agency 
     was commenced, expanded, or extended in retaliation for a 
     disclosure or protected activity described in section 
     2302(b)(8) or subparagraph (A)(i), (B), (C), or (D) of 
     section 2302(b)(9), without regard to whether a personnel 
     action, as defined in section 2302(a)(2)(A), is taken.''.
       (d) Protection of Whistleblowers as Criteria in Performance 
     Appraisals.--
       (1) Establishment of systems.--Section 4302 of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
     (c) and (d), respectively; and
       (B) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
       ``(b)(1) The head of each agency, in consultation with the 
     Director of the Office of Personnel Management and the 
     Special Counsel, shall develop criteria that--
       ``(A) the head of the agency shall use as a critical 
     element for establishing the job requirements of a 
     supervisory employee; and
       ``(B) promote the protection of whistleblowers.
       ``(2) The criteria required under paragraph (1) shall 
     include--
       ``(A) principles for the protection of whistleblowers, such 
     as the degree to which supervisory employees--
       ``(i) respond constructively when employees of the agency 
     make disclosures described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of 
     section 2302(b)(8);
       ``(ii) take responsible actions to resolve the disclosures 
     described in clause (i); and
       ``(iii) foster an environment in which employees of the 
     agency feel comfortable making disclosures described in 
     clause (i) to supervisory employees or other appropriate 
     authorities; and
       ``(B) for each supervisory employee--
       ``(i) whether the agency entered into an agreement with an 
     individual who alleged that the supervisory employee 
     committed a prohibited personnel practice; and
       ``(ii) if the agency entered into an agreement described in 
     clause (i), the number of instances in which the agency 
     entered into such an agreement with respect to the 
     supervisory employee.
       ``(3) In this subsection--
       ``(A) the term `agency' means any entity the employees of 
     which are covered under paragraphs (8) and (9) of section 
     2302(b), without regard to whether any other provision of 
     this section is applicable to the entity;
       ``(B) the term `prohibited personnel practice' has the 
     meaning given the term in section 2302(a)(1);
       ``(C) the term `supervisory employee' means an employee who 
     would be a supervisor, as defined in section 7103(a), if the 
     agency employing the employee was an agency for purposes of 
     chapter 71; and
       ``(D) the term `whistleblower' means an employee who makes 
     a disclosure described in section 2302(b)(8).''.
       (2) Criteria for performance appraisals.--Section 4313 of 
     title 5, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(6) protecting whistleblowers, as described in section 
     4302(b)(2).''.
       (3) Annual report to congress on unacceptable performance 
     in whistleblower protection.--
       (A) Definitions.--In this paragraph, the terms ``agency'' 
     and ``whistleblower'' have the meanings given the terms in 
     section 4302(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code, as amended 
     by paragraph (1).
       (B) Report.--Each agency shall annually submit to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
     the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
     of the House of Representatives, and each committee of 
     Congress with jurisdiction over the agency a report that 
     details--
       (i) the number of performance appraisals, for the year 
     covered by the report, that determined that an employee of 
     the agency failed to meet the standards for protecting 
     whistleblowers that were established under section 4302(b) of 
     title 5, United States Code, as amended by paragraph (1);
       (ii) the reasons for the determinations described in clause 
     (i); and
       (iii) each performance-based or corrective action taken by 
     the agency in response to a determination under clause (i).
       (4) Technical and conforming amendment.--Section 4301 of 
     title 5, United States Code, is amended, in the matter 
     preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``For the purpose of'' 
     and inserting ``Except as otherwise expressly provided, for 
     the purpose of''.
       (e) Discipline of Supervisors Based on Retaliation Against 
     Whistleblowers.--
       (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 75 of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by striking section 7515; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 7515. Discipline of supervisors based on retaliation 
       against whistleblowers

       ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
       ``(1) the term `agency'--
       ``(A) has the meaning given the term in section 
     2302(a)(2)(C), without regard to whether any other provision 
     of this chapter is applicable to the entity; and
       ``(B) does not include any entity that is an element of the 
     intelligence community, as defined in section 3 of the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003);
       ``(2) the term `prohibited personnel action' means taking 
     or failing to take an action in violation of paragraph (8), 
     (9), or (14) of section 2302(b) against an employee of an 
     agency; and
       ``(3) the term `supervisor' means an employee who would be 
     a supervisor, as defined in section 7103(a), if the entity 
     employing the employee was an agency.
       ``(b) Proposed Disciplinary Actions.--
       ``(1) In general.--Subject to section 1214(f), if the head 
     of the agency in which a supervisor is employed, an 
     administrative law judge, the Merit Systems Protection Board, 
     the Special Counsel, a judge of the United States, or the 
     Inspector General of the agency in which a supervisor is 
     employed has determined that the supervisor committed a 
     prohibited personnel action, the head of the agency in which 
     the supervisor is employed, consistent with the procedures 
     required under paragraph (2)--
       ``(A) for the first prohibited personnel action committed 
     by the supervisor--
       ``(i) shall propose suspending the supervisor for a period 
     that is not less than 3 days; and
       ``(ii) may propose an additional action determined 
     appropriate by the head of the agency, including a reduction 
     in grade or pay; and
       ``(B) for the second prohibited personnel action committed 
     by the supervisor, shall propose removing the supervisor.
       ``(2) Procedures.--
       ``(A) Notice.--A supervisor against whom an action is 
     proposed to be taken under paragraph (1) is entitled to 
     written notice that--
       ``(i) states the specific reasons for the proposed action; 
     and
       ``(ii) informs the supervisor about the right of the 
     supervisor to review the material that is relied on to 
     support the reasons given in the notice for the proposed 
     action.
       ``(B) Answer and evidence.--
       ``(i) In general.--A supervisor who receives notice under 
     subparagraph (A) may, not later than 14 days after the date 
     on which the supervisor receives the notice, submit an answer 
     and furnish evidence in support of that answer.
       ``(ii) No evidence furnished; insufficient evidence 
     furnished.--If, after the end of the 14-day period described 
     in clause (i), a supervisor does not furnish any evidence as 
     described in that clause, or if the head of the agency in 
     which the supervisor is employed determines that the evidence 
     furnished by the supervisor is insufficient, the head of the 
     agency shall carry out the action proposed under subparagraph 
     (A) or (B) of paragraph (1), as applicable.
       ``(C) Scope of procedures.--An action carried out under 
     this section--
       ``(i) except as provided in clause (ii), shall be subject 
     to the same requirements and procedures, including those with 
     respect to an appeal, as an action under section 7503, 7513, 
     or 7543; and
       ``(ii) shall not be subject to--

       ``(I) paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 7503(b);
       ``(II) paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) and 
     subsection (c) of section 7513; and
       ``(III) paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) and 
     subsection (c) of section 7543.

       ``(3) Non-delegation.--If the head of an agency is 
     responsible for determining whether a supervisor has 
     committed a prohibited personnel action for purposes of 
     paragraph (1), the head of the agency may not delegate that 
     responsibility.''.
       (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of 
     sections for subchapter II of chapter 75 of title 5, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (A) by striking any item relating to section 7515; and
       (B) adding at the end the following:

``7515. Discipline of supervisors based on retaliation against 
              whistleblowers.''.
       (f) Termination of Certain Investigations by the Office of 
     Special Counsel.--Section 1214(a) of title 5, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(6)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     section, not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
     Special Counsel receives an allegation of a prohibited 
     personnel practice under paragraph (1), the Special Counsel 
     may terminate an investigation of the allegation without 
     further inquiry if the Special Counsel determines that--
       ``(i) the same allegation, based on the same set of facts 
     and circumstances, had previously been--
       ``(I)(aa) made by the individual; and
       ``(bb) investigated by the Special Counsel; or
       ``(II) filed by the individual with the Merit Systems 
     Protection Board;
       ``(ii) the Special Counsel does not have jurisdiction to 
     investigate the allegation; or
       ``(iii) the individual knew or should have known of the 
     alleged prohibited personnel practice on or before the date 
     that is 3 years before the date on which the Special Counsel 
     received the allegation.
       ``(B) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
     Special Counsel terminates an investigation under 
     subparagraph (A), the Special Counsel shall provide a written 
     notification to the individual who submitted the allegation 
     of a prohibited personnel practice that states the basis of 
     the Special Counsel for terminating the investigation.''.
       (g) Allegations of Wrongdoing Within the Office of Special 
     Counsel.--Section 1212 of title 5, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(i) The Special Counsel shall enter into at least 1 
     agreement with the Inspector General of an agency under 
     which--
       ``(1) the Inspector General shall--
       ``(A) receive, review, and investigate allegations of 
     prohibited personnel practices or wrongdoing filed by 
     employees of the Office of Special Counsel; and

[[Page H8797]]

       ``(B) develop a method for an employee of the Office of 
     Special Counsel to communicate directly with the Inspector 
     General; and
       ``(2) the Special Counsel--
       ``(A) may not require an employee of the Office of Special 
     Counsel to seek authorization or approval before directly 
     contacting the Inspector General in accordance with the 
     agreement; and
       ``(B) may reimburse the Inspector General for services 
     provided under the agreement.''.
       (h) Reporting Requirements.--
       (1) Annual report.--Section 1218 of title 5, United States 
     Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 1218. Annual report

       ``The Special Counsel shall submit to Congress, on an 
     annual basis, a report regarding the activities of the 
     Special Counsel, which shall include, for the year preceding 
     the submission of the report--
       ``(1) the number, types, and disposition of allegations of 
     prohibited personnel practices filed with the Special Counsel 
     and the costs of resolving such allegations;
       ``(2) the number of investigations conducted by the Special 
     Counsel;
       ``(3) the number of stays and disciplinary actions 
     negotiated with agencies by the Special Counsel;
       ``(4) the number of subpoenas issued by the Special 
     Counsel;
       ``(5) the number of instances in which the Special Counsel 
     reopened an investigation after the Special Counsel had made 
     an initial determination with respect to the investigation;
       ``(6) the actions that resulted from reopening 
     investigations, as described in paragraph (5);
       ``(7) the number of instances in which the Special Counsel 
     did not make a determination before the end of the 240-day 
     period described in section 1214(b)(2)(A)(i) regarding 
     whether there were reasonable grounds to believe that a 
     prohibited personnel practice had occurred, existed, or was 
     to be taken;
       ``(8) a description of the recommendations and reports made 
     by the Special Counsel to other agencies under this 
     subchapter and the actions taken by the agencies as a result 
     of the recommendations or reports;
       ``(9) the number of--
       ``(A) actions initiated before the Merit Systems Protection 
     Board, including the number of corrective action petitions 
     and disciplinary action complaints initiated; and
       ``(B) stays and extensions of stays obtained from the Merit 
     Systems Protection Board;
       ``(10) the number of prohibited personnel practice 
     complaints that resulted in a favorable action for the 
     complainant, other than a stay or an extension of a stay, 
     organized by actions in--
       ``(A) complaints dealing with reprisals against 
     whistleblowers; and
       ``(B) all other complaints;
       ``(11) the number of prohibited personnel practice 
     complaints that were resolved by an agreement between an 
     agency and an individual, organized by agency and agency 
     components in--
       ``(A) complaints dealing with reprisals against 
     whistleblowers; and
       ``(B) all other complaints;
       ``(12) the number of corrective actions that the Special 
     Counsel required an agency to take after a finding by the 
     Special Counsel of a prohibited personnel practice, as 
     defined in section 2302(a)(1); and
       ``(13) the results for the Office of Special Counsel of any 
     employee viewpoint survey conducted by the Office of 
     Personnel Management or any other agency.''.
       (2) Public information.--Section 1219(a)(1) of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(1) a list of any noncriminal matters referred to the 
     head of an agency under section 1213(c), together with--
       ``(A) a copy of the information transmitted to the head of 
     the agency under section 1213(c)(1);
       ``(B) any report from the agency under section 
     1213(c)(1)(B) relating to the matter;
       ``(C) if appropriate, not otherwise prohibited by law, and 
     consented to by the complainant, any comments from the 
     complainant under section 1213(e)(1) relating to the matter; 
     and
       ``(D) the comments or recommendations of the Special 
     Counsel under paragraph (3) or (4) of section 1213(e);''.
       (3) Notice of complaint settlements.--Section 1217 of title 
     5, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by striking ``The Special Counsel'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(a) In General.--The Special Counsel''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(b) Additional Report Required.--
       ``(1) In general.--If an allegation submitted to the 
     Special Counsel is resolved by an agreement between an agency 
     and an individual, the Special Counsel shall submit to 
     Congress and each congressional committee with jurisdiction 
     over the agency a report regarding the agreement.
       ``(2) Contents.--Any report required under paragraph (1) 
     shall identify, with respect to an agreement described in 
     that paragraph--
       ``(A) the agency that entered into the agreement;
       ``(B) the position and employment location of the employee 
     who submitted the allegation that formed the basis of the 
     agreement, provided the information is not so specific as to 
     be reasonably likely to identify the employee;
       ``(C) the position and employment location of any employee 
     alleged by an employee described in subparagraph (B) to have 
     committed a prohibited personnel practice, as defined in 
     section 2302(a)(1);
       ``(D) a description of the allegation described in 
     subparagraph (B); and
       ``(E) whether the agency that entered into the agreement 
     has agreed to pursue any disciplinary action as a result of 
     the allegation described in subparagraph (B).''.
       (i) Establishment of Survey Pilot Program.--
       (1) In general.--The Office of Special Counsel shall design 
     and establish a pilot program under which the Office shall 
     conduct, during the first full fiscal year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, a survey of individuals who have filed 
     a complaint or disclosure with the Office.
       (2) Purpose.--The survey under paragraph (1) shall be 
     designed for the purpose of collecting information and 
     improving service at various stages of a review or 
     investigation by the Office of Special Counsel.
       (3) Results.--The results of the survey under paragraph (1) 
     shall be published in the annual report of the Office of 
     Special Counsel.
       (4) Suspension of other surveys.--During the period 
     beginning on October 1, 2017, and ending on September 30, 
     2018, section 13 of the Act entitled ``An Act to reauthorize 
     the Office of Special Counsel, and for other purposes'', 
     approved October 29, 1994 (5 U.S.C. 1212 note), shall have no 
     force or effect.
       (j) Stays of the Merit Systems Protection Board.--Section 
     1214(b)(1)(B)(ii) of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``who was appointed, by and with the advice and 
     consent of the Senate,''.
       (k) Penalties Under the Hatch Act.--
       (1) In general.--Section 7326 of title 5, United States 
     Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 7326. Penalties

       ``An employee or individual who violates section 7323 or 
     7324 shall be subject to--
       ``(1) disciplinary action consisting of removal, reduction 
     in grade, debarment from Federal employment for a period not 
     to exceed 5 years, suspension, or reprimand;
       ``(2) an assessment of a civil penalty not to exceed 
     $1,000; or
       ``(3) any combination of the penalties described in 
     paragraph (1) or (2).''.
       (2) Application.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall 
     apply to any violation of section 7323 or 7324 of title 5, 
     United States Code, occurring after the date of enactment of 
     this Act.
       (l) Amendments to Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower 
     Protection Act.--Section 105 of the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick 
     Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a) by inserting ``credible'' before 
     ``information indicating''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(c) Permission of Next of Kin.--The head of the agency 
     shall only make a referral under subsection (a) regarding an 
     employee after receiving written permission from the next of 
     kin, as such term is defined in section 6381 of title 5, 
     United States Code, of the employee.''.
       (m) Regulations.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Special Counsel shall prescribe 
     such regulations as may be necessary to perform--
       (A) the functions of the Special Counsel under subchapter 
     II of chapter 12 of title 5, United States Code, including 
     regulations that are necessary to carry out sections 1213, 
     1214, and 1215 of that title; and
       (B) any functions of the Special Counsel that are required 
     because of the amendments made by this section.
       (2) Publication.--Any regulations prescribed under 
     paragraph (1) shall be published in the Federal Register.
       (n) Authorization of Appropriations.--
       (1) In general.--Section 8(a)(2) of the Whistleblower 
     Protection Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 note) is amended by 
     striking ``2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007'' and inserting 
     ``2018 through 2023''.
       (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
     shall take effect as though enacted on September 30, 2017.

     SEC. 1098. AIR TRANSPORTATION OF CIVILIAN DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE PERSONNEL TO AND FROM AFGHANISTAN.

       (a) Policy Review.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     conduct a policy review regarding the use of commercial air 
     transportation or alternative forms of air transportation to 
     transport civilian personnel of the Department of Defense to 
     and from Afghanistan.
       (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
     completion of the policy review required by subsection (a), 
     the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report 
     on the results of such review.
       (c) Updated Guidelines.--Not later than 90 days after the 
     completion of the policy review required by subsection (a), 
     the Secretary shall issue updated guidelines, based on the 
     report submitted under subsection (b), regarding the use of 
     commercial air transportation or alternative forms of air 
     transportation to transport civilian personnel of the 
     Department to and from Afghanistan.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Direct hire authority for the Department of Defense for 
              personnel to assist in business transformation and 
              management innovation.
Sec. 1102. Extension of direct hire authority for Domestic Defense 
              Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test 
              Facilities Base.
Sec. 1103. Extension of authority to provide voluntary separation 
              incentive pay for civilian employees of the Department of 
              Defense.
Sec. 1104. Additional Department of Defense science and technology 
              reinvention laboratories.

[[Page H8798]]

Sec. 1105. One year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
              on premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for 
              Federal civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1106. Direct hire authority for financial management experts in 
              the Department of Defense workforce.
Sec. 1107. Extension of authority for temporary personnel flexibilities 
              for Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major 
              Range and Test Facilities Base civilian personnel.
Sec. 1108. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
              allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian 
              personnel on official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1109. Extension of overtime rate authority for Department of the 
              Navy employees performing work aboard or dockside in 
              support of the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier forward 
              deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1110. Pilot program on enhanced personnel management system for 
              cybsersecurity and legal professionals in the Department 
              of Defense.
Sec. 1111. Establishment of senior scientific technical managers at 
              Major Range and Test Facility Base Facilities and Defense 
              Test Resource Management Center.

     SEC. 1101. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE FOR PERSONNEL TO ASSIST IN BUSINESS 
                   TRANSFORMATION AND MANAGEMENT INNOVATION.

       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may appoint in the 
     Department of Defense individuals described in subsection (b) 
     without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 
     33 of title 5, United States Code, for the purpose of 
     assisting and facilitating the efforts of the Department in 
     business transformation and management innovation.
       (b) Covered Individuals.--The individuals described in this 
     subsection are individuals who have all of the following:
       (1) A management or business background.
       (2) Experience working with large or complex organizations.
       (3) Expertise in management and organizational change, data 
     analytics, or business process design.
       (c) Limitation on Number.--The number of individuals 
     appointed pursuant to this section at any one time may not 
     exceed 10 individuals.
       (d) Nature of Appointment.--Any appointment under this 
     section shall be on a term basis, and shall be subject to the 
     term appointment regulations in part 316 of title 5, Code of 
     Federal Regulations (other than requirements in such 
     regulations relating to competitive hiring). The term of any 
     such appointment shall be specified by the Secretary at the 
     time of the appointment.
       (e) Briefings.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2019, and 
     September 30, 2021, the Secretary shall brief the appropriate 
     committees of Congress on the exercise of the authority in 
     this section.
       (2) Elements.--Each briefing under this subsection shall 
     include the following:
       (A) A description and assessment of the results of the use 
     of such authority as of the date of such briefing.
       (B) Such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate for extension or modification of such authority.
       (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Government Oversight and Reform of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (f) Sunset.--
       (1) In general.--The authority to appoint individuals in 
     this section shall expire on September 30, 2021.
       (2) Construction with existing appointments.--The 
     expiration in paragraph (1) of the authority in this section 
     shall not be construed to terminate any appointment made 
     under this section before the date of expiration that 
     continues according to its term as of the date of expiration.

     SEC. 1102. EXTENSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DOMESTIC 
                   DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE FACILITIES AND MAJOR 
                   RANGE AND TEST FACILITIES BASE.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1125 of subtitle 
     B of title XI of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended by striking 
     ``During fiscal years 2017 and 2018,'' and inserting ``During 
     each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021,''.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2019 and 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives, the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
     of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
     including--
       (1) a description of the effect of such section 1125 (as 
     amended by subsection (a)) on the management of the 
     Department of Defense civilian workforce during the most 
     recently ended fiscal year; and
       (2) the number of employees--
       (A) hired under such section during such fiscal year; and
       (B) expected to be hired under such section during the 
     fiscal year in which the briefing is provided.

     SEC. 1103. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE VOLUNTARY 
                   SEPARATION INCENTIVE PAY FOR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES 
                   OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) In General.--Section 1107 of subtitle A of title XI of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328) is amended by striking ``September 30, 
     2018'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than December 31, 2019, and 
     December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a 
     briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives, the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of 
     the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate including--
       (1) a description of the effect of such section 1107 (as 
     amended by subsection (a)) on the management of the 
     Department of Defense civilian workforce during the most 
     recently ended fiscal year;
       (2) the number of employees offered voluntary separation 
     incentive payments during such fiscal year by operation of 
     such section; and
       (3) the number of such employees that accepted such 
     payments.

     SEC. 1104. ADDITIONAL DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SCIENCE AND 
                   TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION LABORATORIES.

       Section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2487; 10 
     U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(20) The Naval Medical Research Center.
       ``(21) The Joint Warfighting Analysis Center.
       ``(22) The Naval Facilities Engineering and Expeditionary 
     Warfare Center.''.

     SEC. 1105. ONE YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL 
                   LIMITATION ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE 
                   LIMITATION ON PAY FOR FEDERAL CIVILIAN 
                   EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.

       Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
     (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4615), as most recently 
     amended by section 1137 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2460), is amended by striking ``through 2017'' and inserting 
     ``through 2018''.

     SEC. 1106. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
                   EXPERTS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WORKFORCE.

       (a) In General.--Section 1110 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2450; 10 U.S.C. 1580 note prec.) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Defense Agencies 
     or the applicable military Department'' and inserting ``a 
     Department of Defense component'';
       (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``the Defense 
     Agencies'' and inserting ``each Department of Defense 
     component listed in subsection (f) other than the Department 
     of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department 
     of the Air Force'';
       (3) in subsection (d)--
       (A) by striking ``any Defense Agency or military 
     department'' and inserting ``any Department of Defense 
     component''; and
       (B) by striking ``such Defense Agency or military 
     department'' and inserting ``such Department of Defense 
     component''; and
       (4) by striking subsection (f) and inserting the following 
     new subsection (f):
       ``(f) Department of Defense Component Defined.--In this 
     section, the term `Department of Defense component' means the 
     following:
       ``(1) A Defense Agency.
       ``(2) The Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
     Staff.
       ``(3) The Joint Staff.
       ``(4) A combatant command.
       ``(5) The Office of the Inspector General of the Department 
     of Defense.
       ``(6) A Field Activity of the Department of Defense.
       ``(7) The Department of the Army.
       ``(8) The Department of the Navy.
       ``(9) The Department of the Air Force.''.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2019 and 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives, the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
     of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
     including--
       (1) a description of the effect of section 1110 of subtitle 
     A of title XI of the National Defense Authorization Act, 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328), as amended by subsection (a), on the 
     management of the Department of Defense civilian workforce 
     during the most recently ended fiscal year; and
       (2) the number of employees--
       (A) hired under such section during such fiscal year; and
       (B) expected to be hired under such section during the 
     fiscal year in which the briefing is provided.

     SEC. 1107. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR TEMPORARY PERSONNEL 
                   FLEXIBILITIES FOR DOMESTIC DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL 
                   BASE FACILITIES AND MAJOR RANGE AND TEST 
                   FACILITIES BASE CIVILIAN PERSONNEL.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1132 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2457) is amended by striking 
     ``and 2018'' and inserting ``through 2021''.

[[Page H8799]]

       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2019 and 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives, the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
     of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
     including--
       (1) a description of the effect of such section 1132 (as 
     amended by subsection (a)) on the management of civilian 
     personnel at domestic defense industrial base facilities and 
     Major Range and Test Facilities Base during the most recently 
     ended fiscal year; and
       (2) the number of employees--
       (A) hired under such section during such fiscal year; and
       (B) expected to be hired under such section during the 
     fiscal year in which the briefing is provided.

     SEC. 1108. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
                   ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO 
                   CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT 
                   ZONE.

       Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency 
     Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War 
     on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 
     120 Stat. 443), as added by section 1102 of the Duncan Hunter 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
     (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently 
     amended by section 1133 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2459), is further amended by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
     ``2019''.

     SEC. 1109. EXTENSION OF OVERTIME RATE AUTHORITY FOR 
                   DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY EMPLOYEES PERFORMING 
                   WORK ABOARD OR DOCKSIDE IN SUPPORT OF THE 
                   NUCLEAR-POWERED AIRCRAFT CARRIER FORWARD 
                   DEPLOYED IN JAPAN.

       Section 5542(a)(6)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting 
     ``September 30, 2019''.

     SEC. 1110. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCED PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
                   SYSTEM FOR CYBSERSECURITY AND LEGAL 
                   PROFESSIONALS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Pilot Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     carry out within the Department of Defense a pilot program to 
     assess the feasability and advisability of an enhanced 
     personnel management system in accordance with this section 
     for cybersecurity and legal professionals in the Department 
     described in subsection (b) who enter civilian service with 
     the Department on or after January 1, 2020.
       (b) Cybersecurity and Legal Professionals.--
       (1) In general.--The cybersecurity and legal professionals 
     described in this subsection are the following:
       (A) Civilian cybersecurity professionals in the Department 
     of Defense consisting of civilian personnel engaged in or 
     directly supporting planning, commanding and controlling, 
     training, developing, acquiring, modifying, and operating 
     systems and capabilities, and military units and intelligence 
     organizations (other than those funded by the National 
     Intelligence Program) that are directly engaged in or used 
     for offensive and defensive cyber and information warfare or 
     intelligence activities in support thereof.
       (B) Civilian legal professionals in the Department 
     occupying legal or similar positions, as determined by the 
     Secretary of Defense for purposes of the pilot program, that 
     require eligibility to practice law in a State or territory 
     of the United States.
       (2) Inapplicability to ses positions.--The pilot program 
     shall not apply to positions within the Senior Executive 
     Service under subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of title 5, 
     United States Code.
       (c) Direct-appointment Authority.--
       (1) Inapplicability of general civil service appointment 
     authorities to appointments.--Under the pilot program, the 
     Secretary of Defense, with respect to the Defense Agencies, 
     and the Secretary of the military department concerned, with 
     respect to the military departments, may appoint qualified 
     candidates as cybersecurity and legal professionals without 
     regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of 
     title 5, United States Code.
       (2) Appointment on direct-hire basis.--Appointments under 
     the pilot program shall be made on a direct-hire basis.
       (d) Term Appointments.--
       (1) Renewable term appointments.--Each individual shall 
     serve with the Department of Defense as a cybersecurity or 
     legal professional under the pilot program pursuant to an 
     initial appointment to service with the Department for a term 
     of not less than 2 years nor more than 8 years. Any term of 
     appointment under the pilot program may be renewed for one or 
     more additional terms of not less than 2 years nor more than 
     8 years as provided in subsection (h).
       (2) Length of terms.--The length of the term of appointment 
     to a position under the pilot program shall be prescribed by 
     the Secretary of Defense taking into account the national 
     security, mission, and other applicable requirements of the 
     position. Positions having identical or similar requirements 
     or terms may be grouped into categories for purposes of the 
     pilot program. The Secretary may delegate any authority in 
     this paragraph to a commissioned officer of the Armed Forces 
     in pay grade O-7 or above or an employee in the Department in 
     the Senior Executive Service.
       (e) Nature of Service Under Appointments.--
       (1) Treatment of personnel appointed as employees.--Except 
     as otherwise provided by this section, individuals serving 
     with the Department of Defense as cybersecurity or legal 
     professionals under the pilot program pursuant to 
     appointments under this section shall be considered employees 
     (as specified in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code) 
     for purposes of the provisions of title 5, United States 
     Code, and other applicable provisions of law, including, in 
     particular, for purposes as follows:
       (A) Eligibility for participation in the Federal Employees' 
     Retirement System under chapter 84 of title 5, United States 
     Code, subject to the provisions of section 8402 of such title 
     and the regulations prescribed pursuant to such section.
       (B) Eligibility for enrollment in a health benefits plan 
     under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
     referred as the ``Federal Employees Health Benefits 
     Program'').
       (C) Eligibility for and subject to the employment 
     protections of subpart F of part III of title 5, United 
     States Code, relating to merit principles and protections.
       (D) Eligibility for the protections of chapter 81, of title 
     5, United States Code, relating to workers compensation.
       (2) Scope of rights and benefits.--In administering the 
     pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall specify, and 
     from time to time update, a comprehensive description of the 
     rights and benefits of individuals serving with the 
     Department under the pilot program pursuant to this 
     subsection and of the provisions of law under which such 
     rights and benefits arise.
       (f) Compensation.--
       (1) Basic pay.--Individuals serving with the Department of 
     Defense as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the 
     pilot program shall be paid basic pay for such service in 
     accordance with a schedule of pay prescribed by the Secretary 
     of Defense for purposes of the pilot program.
       (2) Treatment as basic pay.--Basic pay payable under the 
     pilot program shall be treated for all purposes as basic pay 
     paid under the provisions of title 5, United States Code.
       (3) Performance awards.--Individuals serving with the 
     Department as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the 
     pilot program may be awarded such performance awards for 
     outstanding performance as the Secretary shall prescribe for 
     purposes of the pilot program. The performance awards may 
     include a monetary bonus, time off with pay, or such other 
     awards as the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of 
     the pilot program. The award of performance awards under the 
     pilot program shall be based in accordance with such policies 
     and requirements as the Secretary shall prescribe for 
     purposes of the pilot program.
       (4) Additional compensation.--Individuals serving with the 
     Department as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the 
     pilot program may be awarded such additional compensation 
     above basic pay as the Secretary (or the designees of the 
     Secretary) consider appropriate in order to promote the 
     recruitment and retention of highly skilled and productive 
     cybersecurity and legal professionals to and with the 
     Department.
       (g) Probationary Period.--The following terms of 
     appointment shall be treated as a probationary period under 
     the pilot program:
       (1) The first term of appointment of an individual to 
     service with the Department of Defense as a cybersecurity or 
     legal professional, regardless of length.
       (2) The first term of appointment of an individual to a 
     supervisory position in the Department as a cybersecurity or 
     legal professional, regardless of length and regardless of 
     whether or not such term of appointment to a supervisory 
     position is the first term of appointment of the individual 
     concerned to service with the Department as a cybersecurity 
     or legal professional.
       (h) Renewal of Appointments.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
     the conditions for the renewal of appointments under the 
     pilot program. The conditions may apply to one or more 
     categories of positions, positions on a case-by-case basis, 
     or both.
       (2) Particular conditions.--In prescribing conditions for 
     the renewal of appointments under the pilot program, the 
     Secretary shall take into account the following (in the order 
     specified):
       (A) The necessity for the continuation of the position 
     concerned based on mission requirements and other applicable 
     justifications for the position.
       (B) The service performance of the individual serving in 
     the position concerned, with individuals with satisfactory or 
     better performance afforded preference in renewal.
       (C) Input from employees on conditions for renewal.
       (D) Applicable private and public sector labor market 
     conditions.
       (3) Service performance.--The assessment of the service 
     performance of an individual under the pilot program for 
     purposes of paragraph (2)(B) shall consist of an assessment 
     of the ability of the individual to effectively accomplish 
     mission goals for the position concerned as determined by the 
     supervisor or manager of the individual based on the 
     individual's performance evaluations and the knowledge of and 
     review by such supervisor or manager (developed in 
     consultation with the individual) of the individual's 
     performance in the position. An individual's tenure of 
     service in a position or the Department of Defense may not be 
     the primary element of the assessment.
       (i) Professional Development.--The pilot program shall 
     provide for the professional development of individuals 
     serving with the Department of Defense as cybersecurity and 
     legal professionals under the pilot program in a manner 
     that--
       (1) creates opportunities for education, training, and 
     career-broadening experiences, and for experimental 
     opportunities in other organizations within and outside the 
     Federal Government; and
       (2) reflects the differentiated needs of personnel at 
     different stages of their careers.

[[Page H8800]]

       (j) Sabbaticals.--
       (1) In general.--The pilot program shall provide for an 
     individual who is in a successive term after the first 8 
     years with the Department of Defense as a cybersecurity or 
     legal professional under the pilot program to take, at the 
     election of the individual, a paid or unpaid sabbatical from 
     service with the Department for professional development or 
     education purposes. The length of a sabbatical shall be any 
     length not less than 6 months nor more than 1 year (unless a 
     different period is approved by the Secretary of the military 
     department or head of the organization or element of the 
     Department concerned for purposes of this subsection). The 
     purpose of any sabbatical shall be subject to advance 
     approval by the organization or element in the Department in 
     which the individual is currently performing service. The 
     taking of a sabbatical shall be contingent on the written 
     agreement of the individual concerned to serve with the 
     Department for an appropriate length of time at the 
     conclusion of the term of appointment in which the sabbatical 
     commences, with the period of such service to be in addition 
     to the period of such term of appointment.
       (2) Number of sabbaticals.--An individual may take more 
     than one sabbatical under this subsection.
       (3) Repayment.--Except as provided in paragraph (4), an 
     individual who fails to satisfy a written agreement executed 
     under paragraph (1) with respect to a sabbatical shall repay 
     the Department an amount equal to any pay, allowances, and 
     other benefits received by the individual from the Department 
     during the period of the sabbatical.
       (4) Waiver of repayment.--An agreement under paragraph (1) 
     may include such conditions for the waiver of repayment 
     otherwise required under paragraph (3) for failure to satisfy 
     such agreement as the Secretary specifies in such agreement.
       (k) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall administer 
     the pilot program under regulations prescribed by the 
     Secretary for purposes of the pilot program.
       (l) Termination.--
       (1) In general.--The authority of the Secretary of Defense 
     to appoint individuals for service with the Department of 
     Defense as cybersecurity or legal professionals under the 
     pilot program shall expire on December 31, 2029.
       (2) Effect on existing appointments.--The termination of 
     authority in paragraph (1) shall not be construed to 
     terminate or otherwise affect any appointment made under this 
     section before December 31, 2029, that remains valid as of 
     that date.
       (m) Implementation.--
       (1) Interim final rule.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall prescribe an interim final rule to implement the pilot 
     program.
       (2) Final rule.--Not later than 180 days after prescribing 
     the interim final rule under paragraph (1) and considering 
     public comments with respect to such interim final rule, the 
     Secretary shall prescribe a final rule to implement the pilot 
     program.
       (3) Objectives.--The regulations prescribed under 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) shall accomplish the objectives set 
     forth in subsections (a) through (j) and otherwise ensure 
     flexibility and expedited appointment of cybersecurity and 
     legal professionals in the Department of Defense under the 
     pilot program.
       (n) Reports.--
       (1) Reports required.--Not later than January 30 of each of 
     2022, 2025, and 2028, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
     carrying out of the pilot program. Each report shall include 
     the following:
       (A) A description and assessment of the carrying out of the 
     pilot program during the period since the commencement of the 
     pilot program or the previous submittal of a report under 
     this subsection, as applicable.
       (B) A description and assessment of the successes in and 
     impediments to carrying out the pilot program system during 
     such period.
       (C) Such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate for legislative action to improve the pilot 
     program and to otherwise improve civilian personnel 
     management of cybersecurity and legal professionals by the 
     Department of Defense.
       (D) In the case of the report submitted in 2028, an 
     assessment and recommendations by the Secretary on whether to 
     make the pilot program permanent.
       (2) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1111. ESTABLISHMENT OF SENIOR SCIENTIFIC TECHNICAL 
                   MANAGERS AT MAJOR RANGE AND TEST FACILITY BASE 
                   FACILITIES AND DEFENSE TEST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 
                   CENTER.

       Section 2358a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
     ``, each facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, 
     and the Defense Test Resource Management Center'' after 
     ``each STRL''; and
       (ii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, of such facility 
     of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, or the Defense 
     Test Resource Management Center''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2)--
       (i) by striking ``The positions'' and inserting ``(A) The 
     laboratory positions''; and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(B) The test and evaluation positions described in 
     paragraph (1) may be filled, and shall be managed, by the 
     director of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, in the 
     case of a position at a facility of the Major Range and Test 
     Facility Base, and the director of the Defense Test Resource 
     Management Center, in the case of a position at such center, 
     under criteria established pursuant to section 342(b) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 
     (Public Law 103-337; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), relating to 
     personnel demonstration projects at laboratories of the 
     Department of Defense, except that the director involved 
     shall determine the number of such positions at each facility 
     of the Major Range and Test Facility Base and the Defense 
     Test Resource Management Center, not to exceed two percent of 
     the number of scientists and engineers, but at least one 
     position, employed at the Major Range and Test Facility Base 
     or the Defense Test Resource Management Center, as the case 
     may be, as of the close of the last fiscal year before the 
     fiscal year in which any appointments subject to those 
     numerical limitations are made.''; and
       (2) in subsection (f)--
       (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs 
     (2) and (4), respectively;
       (B) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated by 
     subparagraph (A), the following new paragraph (1):
       ``(1) The term `Defense Test Resource Management Center' 
     means the Department of Defense Test Resource Management 
     Center established under section 196 of this title.''; and
       (C) by inserting after paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) The term `Major Range and Test Facility Base' means 
     the test and evaluation facilities and resources that are 
     designated by the Secretary of Defense as facilities and 
     resources comprising the Major Range and Test Facility 
     Base.''.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition 
              forces supporting certain United States military 
              operations.
Sec. 1202. Support of special operations for irregular warfare.
Sec. 1203. Obligation of funds in Special Defense Acquisition Fund for 
              precision guided munitions.
Sec. 1204. Modification of defense institution capacity building and 
              authority to build capacity of foreign security forces.
Sec. 1205. Extension and modification of authority on training for 
              Eastern European national security forces in the course 
              of multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1206. Global Security Contingency Fund.
Sec. 1207. Defense Institute of International Legal Studies.
Sec. 1208. Extension of participation in and support of the Inter-
              American Defense College.
Sec. 1209. Plan on improvement of ability of national security forces 
              of foreign countries participating in United States 
              capacity building programs to protect civilians.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
              provide defense services to the military and security 
              forces of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
              certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
              States military operations.
Sec. 1213. Special immigrant visas for Afghan allies.
Sec. 1214. Extension of authority to acquire products and services 
              produced in countries along a major route of supply to 
              Afghanistan.
Sec. 1215. Extension of semiannual report on enhancing security and 
              stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Human rights vetting of Afghan National Defense and Security 
              Forces.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Report on United States strategy in Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority to provide 
              assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and 
              Syria.
Sec. 1223. Modification of authority to provide assistance to the 
              vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1224. Extension and modification of authority to support 
              operations and activities of the Office of Security 
              Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1225. Modification and additional elements in annual report on the 
              military power of Iran.
Sec. 1226. Extension of quarterly reports on confirmed ballistic 
              missile launches from Iran and imposition of sanctions in 
              connection with those launches.
Sec. 1227. Limitation on use of funds for provision of man-portable air 
              defense systems to the vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1228. Report on agreement with the Government of the Russian 
              Federation on the status of Syria.

[[Page H8801]]

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the 
              United States and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
              of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Sense of Congress on European security.
Sec. 1234. Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance 
              Initiative.
Sec. 1235. Limitation on availability of funds relating to 
              implementation of the Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1236. Sense of Congress on importance of nuclear capabilities of 
              NATO.
Sec. 1237. Report on Security Cooperation with respect to Western 
              Balkan Countries.
Sec. 1238. Plan to respond in case of Russian noncompliance with the 
              New START Treaty.
Sec. 1239. Strategy to counter threats by the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1239A. Strategy to counter the threat of malign influence by the 
              Russian Federation.

Subtitle E--Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Preservation 
                              Act of 2017

Sec. 1241. Short title.
Sec. 1242. Findings.
Sec. 1243. Compliance enforcement regarding Russian violations of the 
              INF Treaty.
Sec. 1244. Notification requirement related to Russian Federation 
              development of noncompliant systems and United States 
              actions regarding material breach of INF Treaty by the 
              Russian Federation.
Sec. 1245. Review of RS-26 ballistic missile.
Sec. 1246. Definitions.

      Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Indo-Asia-Pacific Region

Sec. 1251. Sense of Congress and Initiative for the Indo-Asia-Pacific 
              region.
Sec. 1252. Report on strategy to prioritize United States defense 
              interests in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1253. Assessment of United States force posture and basing needs 
              in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1254. Plan to enhance the extended deterrence and assurance 
              capabilities of the United States in the Asia-Pacific 
              region.
Sec. 1255. Sense of Congress reaffirming security commitments to the 
              Governments of Japan and South Korea and trilateral 
              cooperation between the United States, Japan, and South 
              Korea.
Sec. 1256. Strategy on North Korea.
Sec. 1257. North Korean nuclear intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Sec. 1258. Advancements in defense cooperation between the United 
              States and India.
Sec. 1259. Strengthening the defense partnership between the United 
              States and Taiwan.
Sec. 1259A. Normalizing the transfer of defense articles and defense 
              services to Taiwan.
Sec. 1259B. Assessment on United States defense implications of China's 
              expanding global access.
Sec. 1259C. Agreement supplemental to Compact of Free Association with 
              Palau.
Sec. 1259D. Study on United States interests in the Freely Associated 
              States.

                          Subtitle G--Reports

Sec. 1261. Modification of annual report on military and security 
              developments involving the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1262. Modifications to annual update of Department of Defense 
              Freedom of Navigation Operations report.
Sec. 1263. Report on strategy to defeat Al-Qaeda, the Taliban, the 
              Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), and their 
              associated forces and co-belligerents.
Sec. 1264. Report on and notice of changes made to the legal and policy 
              frameworks for the United States' use of military force 
              and related national security operations.
Sec. 1265. Report on military action of Saudi Arabia and its coalition 
              partners in Yemen.
Sec. 1266. Submittal of Department of Defense Supplemental and Cost of 
              War Execution reports on quarterly basis.
Sec. 1267. Consolidation of reports on United States Armed Forces, 
              civilian employees, and contractors deployed in support 
              of Operation Inherent Resolve, Operation Freedom's 
              Sentinel, and associated and successor operations.
Sec. 1268. Comptroller General of the United States report on pricing 
              and availability with respect to foreign military sales.
Sec. 1269. Annual report on military and security developments 
              involving the Russian Federation.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 1271. Security and stability strategy for Somalia.
Sec. 1272. Global Theater Security Cooperation Management Information 
              System.
Sec. 1273. Future years plan for the European Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1274. Extension of authority to enter into agreements with 
              participating countries in the American, British, 
              Canadian, and Australian Armies' Program.
Sec. 1275. United States military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen.
Sec. 1276. Transfer of excess high mobility multipurpose wheeled 
              vehicles to foreign countries.
Sec. 1277. Department of Defense program to protect United States 
              students against foreign agents.
Sec. 1278. Limitation and extension of United States-Israel anti-tunnel 
              cooperation authority.
Sec. 1279. Anticorruption strategy.
Sec. 1279A. Strategy to improve defense institutions and security 
              sector forces in Nigeria.
Sec. 1279B. Limitation on availability of funds to implement the Arms 
              Trade Treaty.
Sec. 1279C. Cultural Heritage Protection Coordinator.
Sec. 1279D. Security assistance for Baltic nations for joint program 
              for interoperability and deterrence against aggression.
Sec. 1279E. Restriction on funding for the Preparatory Commission for 
              the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization.
Sec. 1279F. Clarification of authority to support border security 
              operations of certain foreign countries.

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

     SEC. 1201. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF LOGISTICAL SUPPORT FOR 
                   COALITION FORCES SUPPORTING CERTAIN UNITED 
                   STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.

       Section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 394), as most 
     recently amended by section 1201 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2473), is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and 
     inserting ``fiscal year 2018'';
       (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``during the period 
     beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 
     2017'' and inserting ``during the period beginning on October 
     1, 2017, and ending on December 31, 2018''; and
       (3) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``December 31, 2017'' 
     and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.

     SEC. 1202. SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FOR IRREGULAR 
                   WARFARE.

       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the 
     concurrence of the relevant Chief of Mission, expend up to 
     $10,000,000 during each of fiscal years 2018 through 2020 to 
     provide support to foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, 
     or individuals engaged in supporting or facilitating ongoing 
     and authorized irregular warfare operations by United States 
     Special Operations Forces.
       (b) Funds.--
       (1) In general.--Funds for support under this section in a 
     fiscal year shall be derived from amounts authorized to be 
     appropriated for that fiscal year for the Department of 
     Defense for operation and maintenance.
       (2) Limitation.--Funds may not be made available under 
     paragraph (1) until 15 days after the submittal of the 
     strategy required by section 1097 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 1020).
       (c) Procedures.--
       (1) In general.--The authority in this section shall be 
     exercised in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary 
     shall establish for purposes of this section.
       (2) Elements.--The procedures required under paragraph (1) 
     shall establish, at a minimum, the following:
       (A) Policy guidance for the execution of, and constraints 
     within, activities under the authority in this section.
       (B) The processes through which activities under the 
     authority in this section are to be developed, validated, and 
     coordinated, as appropriate, with relevant entities of the 
     United States Government.
       (C) The processes through which legal reviews and 
     determinations are made to comply with the authority in this 
     section and ensure that the exercise of such authority is 
     consistent with the national security of the United States.
       (3) Notice to congress on procedures and material 
     modifications.--The Secretary shall notify the congressional 
     defense committees of the procedures established pursuant to 
     this section before any exercise of the authority in this 
     section, and shall notify such committee of any material 
     modification of the procedures.
       (d) Notification.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 15 days before exercising 
     the authority in this section to make funds available to 
     initiate support of an ongoing and authorized operation or 
     changing the scope or funding level of any support under this 
     section for such an operation by $500,000 or an amount equal 
     to 10 percent of such funding level (whichever is less), the 
     Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees 
     of the use of such authority with respect to such operation. 
     Any such notification shall be in writing.
       (2) Elements.--A notification required by this subsection 
     shall include the following:
       (A) The type of support to be provided to United States 
     Special Operations Forces, and a description of the ongoing 
     and authorized operation to be supported.
       (B) A description of the foreign forces, irregular forces, 
     groups, or individuals engaged in supporting or facilitating 
     the ongoing and authorized operation that is to be the 
     recipient of funds.
       (C) The type of support to be provided to the recipient of 
     the funds, and a description of the

[[Page H8802]]

     end-use monitoring to be used in connection with the use of 
     the funds.
       (D) The amount obligated under the authority to provide 
     support.
       (E) The determination of the Secretary that the provision 
     of support does not constitute any of the following:
       (i) A specific authorization within the meaning of section 
     5(b) of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1544(b)) for the 
     introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities 
     or situations wherein hostilities are clearly indicated by 
     circumstances.
       (ii) A covert action, as such term is defined in section 
     503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3093(e)).
       (iii) An authorization for the provision of support to 
     regular forces, irregular forces, groups or individuals for 
     the conduct of operations that United States Special 
     Operations Forces are not otherwise legally authorized to 
     conduct themselves.
       (iv) The conduct or support of activities, whether directly 
     or indirectly, that are inconsistent with the laws of armed 
     conflict.
       (e) Limitation on Delegation.--The authority of the 
     Secretary to make funds available under this section for 
     support of a military operation may not be delegated.
       (f) Construction of Authority.--Nothing in this section 
     shall be construed to constitute a specific statutory 
     authorization for any of the following:
       (1) The conduct of a covert action, as such term is defined 
     in section 503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947.
       (2) The introduction of United States Armed Forces, within 
     the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution, 
     into hostilities or into situations wherein hostilities are 
     clearly indicated by the circumstances.
       (3) The provision of support to regular forces, irregular 
     forces, groups, or individuals for the conduct of operations 
     that United States Special Operations Forces are not 
     otherwise legally authorized to conduct themselves.
       (4) The conduct or support of activities, directly or 
     indirectly, that are inconsistent with the laws of armed 
     conflict.
       (g) Programmatic and Policy Oversight.--The Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity 
     Conflict shall have primary programmatic and policy oversight 
     within the Office of the Secretary of Defense of support to 
     irregular warfare activities authorized by this section.
       (h) Biannual Reports.--
       (1) Report on preceding fiscal year.--Not later than 120 
     days after the close of each fiscal year in which subsection 
     (a) is in effect, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the support 
     provided under this section during the preceding fiscal year.
       (2) Report on current calendar year.--Not later than 180 
     days after the submittal of each report required by paragraph 
     (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report on the support provided under this 
     section during the first half of the fiscal year in which the 
     report under this paragraph is submitted.
       (3) Elements.--Each report required by this subsection 
     shall include the following:
       (A) A summary of the ongoing irregular warfare operations, 
     and associated authorized campaign plans, being conducted by 
     United States Special Operations Forces that were supported 
     or facilitated by foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, 
     or individuals for which support was provided under this 
     section during the period covered by such report.
       (B) A description of the support or facilitation provided 
     by such foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or 
     individuals to United States Special Operations Forces during 
     such period.
       (C) The type of recipients that were provided support under 
     this section during such period, identified by authorized 
     category (foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or 
     individuals).
       (D) A detailed description of the support provided to the 
     recipients under this section during such period.
       (E) The total amount obligated for support under this 
     section during such period, including budget details.
       (F) The intended duration of support provided under this 
     section during such period
       (G) An assessment of value of the support provided under 
     this section during such period, including a summary of 
     significant activities undertaken by foreign forces, 
     irregular forces, groups, or individuals to support irregular 
     warfare operations by United States Special Operations 
     Forces.
       (H) The total amount obligated for support under this 
     section in prior fiscal years.
       (i) Irregular Warfare Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``irregular warfare'' means activities in support of 
     predetermined United States policy and military objectives 
     conducted by, with, and through regular forces, irregular 
     forces, groups, and individuals participating in competition 
     between state and non-state actors short of traditional armed 
     conflict.

     SEC. 1203. OBLIGATION OF FUNDS IN SPECIAL DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
                   FUND FOR PRECISION GUIDED MUNITIONS.

       (a) In General.--Section 114(c)(3) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking ``Of the amount'' and all 
     that follows through ``only to procure'' and inserting ``Of 
     the amount of annual obligations from the Special Defense 
     Acquisition Fund in each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022, 
     not less than 20 percent shall be for funds to procure''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect as of October 1, 2017.

     SEC. 1204. MODIFICATION OF DEFENSE INSTITUTION CAPACITY 
                   BUILDING AND AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY OF 
                   FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES.

       (a) Defense Institution Capacity Building.--Section 332 of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and members of the 
     armed forces'' after ``civilian employees of the Department 
     of Defense'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``to assign civilian 
     employees of the Department of Defense and members of the 
     armed forces as advisors or trainers'' after ``carry out a 
     program''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2)(B)--
       (i) by striking ``employees'' in each place it appears and 
     inserting ``advisors or trainers''; and
       (ii) by striking ``each assigned employee's activities'' 
     and inserting ``the activities of each assigned advisor or 
     trainer''; and
       (3) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting 
     ``or a member of the armed forces'' after ``a civilian 
     employee of the Department of Defense'';
       (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``employee as an 
     advisor'' and inserting ``advisor or trainer''; and
       (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``employee'' and 
     inserting ``advisor or trainer''.
       (b) Authority to Build Capacity of Foreign Security 
     Forces.--Subsection (c) of section 333 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and the rule of 
     law'' and inserting ``the rule of law, and civilian control 
     of the military''; and
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``Respect for civilian 
     control of the military'' and inserting ``Institutional 
     capacity building'';
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) in the heading, by striking ``Human rights training'' 
     and inserting ``Observance of and respect for the law of 
     armed conflict, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the 
     rule of law, and civilian control of the military'';
       (B) by inserting ``or the Department of State'' after 
     ``Department of Defense''; and
       (C) by striking ``human rights training that includes a 
     comprehensive curriculum on human rights and the law of armed 
     conflict'' and inserting ``training that includes a 
     comprehensive curriculum on the law of armed conflict, human 
     rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, and 
     that enhances the capacity to exercise responsible civilian 
     control of the military''; and
       (3) in paragraph (4)--
       (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``that the 
     Department is already undertaking, or will undertake as part 
     of the program'' and all that follows and inserting ``that 
     the Department of Defense or another department or agency is 
     already undertaking, or will undertake as part of the 
     security sector assistance provided to the foreign country 
     concerned, a program of institutional capacity building with 
     appropriate institutions of such foreign country to enhance 
     the capacity of such foreign country to organize, administer, 
     employ, manage, maintain, sustain, or oversee the national 
     security forces of such foreign country.''; and
       (B) by striking the second sentence.

     SEC. 1205. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY ON 
                   TRAINING FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN NATIONAL SECURITY 
                   FORCES IN THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL EXERCISES.

       (a) Two-Year Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1251 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1070; 10 U.S.C. 2282 note), as 
     amended by section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2489), is further amended--
       (1) by striking ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2020''; and
       (2) by striking ``fiscal years 2016 through 2018'' and 
     inserting ``for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and 
     ending on December 31, 2020''.
       (b) Regulations for Administration of Incremental 
     Expenses.--Subsection (d) of such section, as so amended, is 
     further amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) Regulations.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
     regulations for payment of incremental expenses under 
     subsection (a). Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit the 
     regulations to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
     and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives.
       ``(B) Procedures to be included.--The regulations required 
     under subparagraph (A) shall include procedures--
       ``(i) to require reimbursement of incremental expenses from 
     non-developing countries determined pursuant to subsection 
     (c) to be eligible for the provision of training under 
     subsection (a); and
       ``(ii) to provide for a waiver of the requirement of 
     reimbursement of incremental expenses under clause (i), on a 
     case-by-case basis, if the Secretary of Defense determines 
     special circumstances exist to provide for the waiver.
       ``(C) Quarterly report.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees and the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, 
     on a quarterly basis, a report that includes a description of 
     each waiver of the requirement of reimbursement of 
     incremental expenses under subparagraph (B)(i) that was in 
     effect at any time during the preceding calendar quarter.
       ``(D) Non-developing country defined.--In this paragraph, 
     the term `non-developing country' means a country that is not 
     a developing country, as such term is defined in section 
     301(4) of title 10, United States Code.''.

[[Page H8803]]

       (c) Construction of Authority.--Subsection (f) of such 
     section, as so amended, is further amended--
       (1) by striking ``subsection (a) is in addition'' and 
     inserting the following: ``subsection (a)--
       ``(1) is in addition'';
       (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
     and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2) shall not be construed to include authority for the 
     training of irregular forces, groups, or individuals.''.
       (d) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Such section, as 
     so amended, is further amended--
       (1) by striking ``military'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``security'';
       (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``that'' and inserting 
     ``than'';
       (3) in subsection (f), by striking ``section 2282'' and 
     inserting ``chapter 16''; and
       (4) in subsection (g), by striking ``means'' and all that 
     follows and inserting ``has the meaning given such term in 
     section 301(5) of title 10, United States Code.''.

     SEC. 1206. GLOBAL SECURITY CONTINGENCY FUND.

       Section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (i), by striking ``September 30, 2017'' 
     and inserting ``September 30, 2019''; and
       (2) in subsection (p)--
       (A) by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``September 30, 2019''; and
       (B) by striking ``through 2017'' and inserting ``through 
     2019''.

     SEC. 1207. DEFENSE INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL LEGAL STUDIES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may operate an 
     institute to be known as the ``Defense Institute of 
     International Legal Studies'' (in this section referred to as 
     the ``Institute'') in accordance with this section to further 
     the United States security and foreign policy objectives of--
       (1) promoting an understanding of and appreciation for the 
     rule of law; and
       (2) encouraging the international development of internal 
     capacities of foreign governments for civilian control of the 
     military, military justice, the legal aspects of 
     peacekeeping, good governance and anti-corruption in defense 
     reform, and human rights.
       (b) Activities.--In carrying out the purposes specified in 
     subsection (a), the Institute may conduct activities as 
     follows:
       (1) Exchange of ideas on best practices and lessons learned 
     in order to improve compliance with international legal 
     norms.
       (2) Education and training involving professional legal 
     engagement with foreign military personnel and related 
     civilians, both within and outside the United States.
       (3) Building the legal capacity of foreign military and 
     other security forces, including equitable, transparent, and 
     accountable defense institutions, civilian control of the 
     military, human rights, and democratic governance.
       (4) Institutional legal capacity building of foreign 
     defense and security institutions.
       (c) Department of Defense Review.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
     comprehensive review of the mission, workforce, funding, and 
     other support of the Institute.
       (2) Elements.--The review shall include, but not be limited 
     to, the following:
       (A) An assessment of the scope of the mission of the 
     Institute, taking into account the increasing security 
     cooperation authorities and requirements of the Department of 
     Defense, including core rule of law training in the United 
     States and abroad, defense legal institution building, and 
     statutorily required human rights and legal capacity building 
     of foreign security forces.
       (B) An assessment of the workforce of the Institute, 
     including whether it is appropriately sized to align with the 
     full scope of the mission of the Institute.
       (C) A review of the funding mechanisms for the activities 
     of the Institute, including the current mechanisms for 
     reimbursing the Institute by the Department of State and by 
     the Department of Defense through the budget of the Defense 
     Security Cooperation Agency.
       (D) An evaluation of the feasibility and advisability of 
     the provision of funds appropriated for the Department of 
     Defense directly to the Institute, and the actions, if any, 
     required to authorize the Institute to receive such funds 
     directly.
       (E) A description of the challenges, if any, faced by the 
     Institute to increase its capacity to provide residence 
     courses to meet demands for training and assistance.
       (F) An assessment of the capacity of the Department of 
     Defense to assess, monitor, and evaluate the effectiveness of 
     the human rights training and other activities of the 
     Institute.
       (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report summarizing the 
     findings of the review and any recommendations for enhancing 
     the capability of the Institute to fulfill its mission that 
     the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (d) Comptroller General of the United States Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
     Congress a report that sets forth the following:
       (A) A description of the mechanisms and authorities used by 
     the Department of Defense and the Department of State to 
     conduct training of foreign security forces on human rights 
     and international humanitarian law.
       (B) A description of the funding used to support the 
     training described in subparagraph (A).
       (C) A description and assessment of the methodology used by 
     each of the Department of Defense and the Department of State 
     to assess the effectiveness of such training.
       (D) Such recommendations for improvements to such training 
     as the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
       (E) Such other matters relating to such training as the 
     Comptroller General considers appropriate.
       (2) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1208. EXTENSION OF PARTICIPATION IN AND SUPPORT OF THE 
                   INTER-AMERICAN DEFENSE COLLEGE.

       Subsection (c) of section 1243 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2516; 10 U.S.C. 1050 note) is amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``Fiscal Year 2017'' and 
     inserting ``Fiscal Years 2017, 2018, and 2019''; and
       (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal 
     years 2017, 2018, and 2019''.

     SEC. 1209. PLAN ON IMPROVEMENT OF ABILITY OF NATIONAL 
                   SECURITY FORCES OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES 
                   PARTICIPATING IN UNITED STATES CAPACITY 
                   BUILDING PROGRAMS TO PROTECT CIVILIANS.

       (a) Report on Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth a 
     plan, to be implemented as part of appropriate capacity 
     building programs under section 333(c) of title 10, United 
     States Code, to improve the ability of national security 
     forces of foreign countries to protect civilians.
       (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) Efforts to develop and integrate principles and 
     techniques on the protection of civilians in relevant partner 
     force standard operating procedures.
       (2) Efforts to build partner capacity to collect, track, 
     and analyze civilian casualty data and apply lessons learned 
     to future operations.
       (3) Efforts to support enhanced investigatory and 
     accountability standards in partner forces in order to ensure 
     that such forces comply with the laws of armed conflict and 
     observe appropriate standards for human rights and the 
     protection of civilians.
       (4) Efforts to increase partner transparency, which may 
     include the establishment of capabilities within partner 
     militaries to improve communication with the public.
       (5) The estimated resources required to implement the 
     efforts described in paragraphs (1) through (4).
       (6) The appropriate roles of the Department of Defense and 
     the Department of State in such efforts.
       (7) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary of State consider appropriate.
       (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

     SEC. 1211. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE 
                   ARTICLES AND PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE 
                   MILITARY AND SECURITY FORCES OF AFGHANISTAN.

       (a) Extension of Expiration.--Subsection (h) of section 
     1222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1992), as most 
     recently amended by section 1213 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2478), is further amended by striking ``December 
     31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
       (b) Excess Defense Articles.--Subsection (i)(2) of such 
     section 1222, as so amended, is further amended by striking 
     ``December 31, 2017'' each place it appears and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018''.

     SEC. 1212. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR 
                   REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR 
                   SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES MILITARY 
                   OPERATIONS.

       (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
     (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 393), as most recently amended 
     by section 1218 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2482), is 
     further amended by striking ``the period beginning on October 
     1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 2017,'' and inserting 
     ``the period beginning on October 1, 2017, and ending on 
     December 31, 2018,''.
       (b) Limitations on Amounts Available.--Subsection (d)(1) of 
     such section 1233, as so amended, is further amended--
       (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``during the period 
     beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 
     2017, may not exceed $1,100,000,000'' and inserting ``during 
     the period beginning on October 1, 2017, and ending on 
     December 31, 2018, may not exceed $900,000,000''; and

[[Page H8804]]

       (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``the period 
     beginning on October 1, 2016 and ending on December 31, 2017, 
     may not exceed $900,000,000'' and inserting ``during the 
     period beginning on October 1, 2017, and ending on December 
     31, 2018, may not exceed $700,000,000''.
       (c) Extension of Reporting Requirement on Reimbursement of 
     Pakistan for Security Enhancement Activities.--Subsection 
     (e)(2) of such section 1233, as added by section 1218 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is 
     amended by inserting ``and annually thereafter,'' after 
     ``December 31, 2017,''.
       (d) Extension of Notice Requirement Relating to 
     Reimbursement of Pakistan for Support Provided by Pakistan.--
     Section 1232(b)(6) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2008 (122 Stat. 393), as most recently 
     amended by section 1218(e) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by 
     striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 
     2018''.
       (e) Extension of Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan 
     Pending Certification on Pakistan.--Section 1227(d)(1) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
     (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2001), as most recently 
     amended by section 1218(f) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended by 
     striking ``for any period prior to December 31, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``for any period prior to December 31, 2018''.
       (f) Additional Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan 
     Pending Certification on Pakistan.--Of the total amount of 
     reimbursements and support authorized for Pakistan during 
     fiscal year 2018 pursuant to the second sentence of section 
     1233(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2008 (as amended by subsection (b)(2)), 
     $350,000,000 shall not be eligible for the waiver under 
     section 1227(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2013 (126 Stat. 2001) unless the Secretary of 
     Defense certifies to the congressional defense committees 
     that--
       (1) Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that 
     are contributing to significantly disrupting the safe havens, 
     fundraising and recruiting efforts, and freedom of movement 
     of the Haqqani Network in Pakistan;
       (2) Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment 
     to prevent the Haqqani Network from using any Pakistan 
     territory as a safe haven and for fundraising and recruiting 
     efforts;
       (3) the Government of Pakistan is making an attempt to 
     actively coordinate with the Government of Afghanistan to 
     restrict the movement of militants, such as the Haqqani 
     Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border; and
       (4) Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and 
     prosecuting senior leaders and mid-level operatives of the 
     Haqqani Network.

     SEC. 1213. SPECIAL IMMIGRANT VISAS FOR AFGHAN ALLIES.

       Section 602(b)(3)(F) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 
     2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is amended in the matter preceding 
     clause (i) by striking ``11,000'' and inserting ``14,500''.

     SEC. 1214. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE PRODUCTS AND 
                   SERVICES PRODUCED IN COUNTRIES ALONG A MAJOR 
                   ROUTE OF SUPPLY TO AFGHANISTAN.

       Section 801(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2399), as 
     most recently amended by section 1212 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2478), is further amended by striking ``December 
     31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.

     SEC. 1215. EXTENSION OF SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON ENHANCING 
                   SECURITY AND STABILITY IN AFGHANISTAN.

       Section 1225(a)(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3550), as amended by 
     section 1215(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2480), is 
     further amended by striking ``December 15, 2019'' and 
     inserting ``December 15, 2020''.

     SEC. 1216. HUMAN RIGHTS VETTING OF AFGHAN NATIONAL DEFENSE 
                   AND SECURITY FORCES.

       The Secretary of Defense may establish within the 
     Department of Defense one or more permanent positions to 
     oversee and support, in coordination with the Department of 
     State, the implementation of section 362 of title 10, United 
     States Code, with respect to the Afghan National Defense and 
     Security Forces.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

     SEC. 1221. REPORT ON UNITED STATES STRATEGY IN SYRIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report that describes the strategy of the United 
     States in Syria.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include each of the following:
       (1) A description of--
       (A) the key United States security interests and the 
     political and military objectives, long-term goals, and end-
     states for Syria; and
       (B) indicators for the effectiveness of efforts to achieve 
     such objectives, goals, and end-states.
       (2) A description of United States assumptions underlying 
     current intelligence assessments, the roles and ambitions of 
     other countries, and the interests of relevant Syrian groups 
     with respect to such objectives.
       (3) A description of how current military, diplomatic, and 
     humanitarian assistance efforts in Syria align with such 
     objectives.
       (4) The estimated annual resources required through fiscal 
     year 2022 for the relevant departments and agencies to 
     achieve such objectives.
       (5) An analysis of the threats posed to United States 
     interests, including to United States military or civilian 
     personnel in Syria or the surrounding region, by Russian and 
     Iranian activities in Syria, as well as the threats posed to 
     such interests or personnel by the Islamic State of Iraq and 
     Syria, Al Qaeda, Hezbollah, and other violent extremist 
     organizations in Syria.
       (6) A description of United States objectives for a 
     sustainable political settlement in Syria.
       (7) A description of the coordination between the 
     Department of Defense and the Department of State regarding 
     the transition from military operations to stabilization 
     efforts in areas liberated from the control of the Islamic 
     State of Iraq and Syria, including a description of how local 
     governance and civil society will be restored in areas 
     secured through coalition military operations in Syria.
       (8) A description of the current and planned response of 
     the United States to the humanitarian crisis in Syria as a 
     result of attacks by the Syrian Government on its people, 
     including support for the needs of refugees and internally 
     displaced populations and for improving access to 
     humanitarian aid, especially in areas where such aid has been 
     blocked.
       (9) A description of amounts and sources of Islamic State 
     of Iraq and Syria financing in Syria and efforts to disrupt 
     this financing as part of the broader strategy of the United 
     States in Syria.
       (10) An assessment of the capabilities and willingness of 
     the Syrian government and its allies to use chemical or other 
     weapons of mass destruction against its citizens or against 
     United States and associated military forces in Syria.
       (11) A description of the roles and responsibilities of 
     United States allies and partners and other countries in the 
     region in establishing regional stability.
       (12) A description of all mechanisms for coordination and 
     deconfliction between the United States and the governments 
     of Russia and other state actors in order to achieve the 
     United States strategy in Syria.
       (13) A description of the current legal authorities that 
     support the strategy of the United States in Syria and any 
     additional legal authorities that may be necessary to 
     implement such strategy.
       (14) A description of the military conditions that must be 
     met for the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria to be considered 
     defeated.
       (15) Any other matters the President determines to be 
     relevant.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
     Senate.

     SEC. 1222. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
                   ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ 
                   AND SYRIA.

       (a) Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl 
     Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3559), as most recently amended by section 1222 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2485), is further amended by 
     striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 
     2019''.
       (b) Quarterly Progress Report.--Subsection (d) of such 
     section 1236, as most recently amended by section 1222 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1049), is further amended--
       (1) in the first sentence of the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1), by adding at the end before the period the following: 
     ``, which shall be provided in unclassified form with a 
     classified annex if necessary''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(12) An assessment of--
       ``(A) security in liberated areas in Iraq;
       ``(B) the extent to which security forces trained and 
     equipped, directly or indirectly, by the United States are 
     prepared to provide post-conflict stabilization and security 
     in such liberated areas; and
       ``(C) the effectiveness of security forces in the post-
     conflict environment and an identification of which such 
     forces will provide post-conflict stabilization and security 
     in such liberated areas.''.
       (c) Clarification of Construction Authority.--
       (1) Clarification.--Subsection (a) of such section 1236 is 
     further amended by striking ``facility and infrastructure 
     repair and renovation,'' and inserting ``infrastructure 
     repair and renovation, small-scale construction of temporary 
     facilities necessary to meet urgent operational or force 
     protection requirements with a cost less than $4,000,000,''.
       (2) Additional limitations and requirements.--Such section 
     1236 is further amended by adding at the end the following 
     new subsections:
       ``(m) Limitation on Aggregate Cost of Construction, Repair, 
     and Renovation Projects.--The aggregate amount of 
     construction, repair, and renovation projects carried out 
     under this section in any fiscal year may not exceed 
     $30,000,000.
       ``(n) Approval and Notice Before Certain Construction, 
     Repair, and Renovation Projects.--
       ``(1) Approval.--A construction, repair, or renovation 
     project costing more than $1,000,000 may not be carried out 
     under this section unless approved in advance by the 
     Commander of the United States Central Command.
       ``(2) Notice.--When a decision is made to carry out a 
     construction, repair, or renovation

[[Page H8805]]

     project to which paragraph (1) applies, the Commander of the 
     United States Central Command shall notify in writing the 
     appropriate committees of Congress of that decision, 
     including the justification for the project and the estimated 
     cost of the project. The project may be carried out only 
     after the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date the 
     notification is received by the committees or, if earlier, 
     the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a 
     copy of the notification is provided in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of title 10, United States Code.''.
       (3) Element in quarterly reports on construction, repair, 
     and renovation.--Paragraph (8) of subsection (d) of such 
     section 1236 is amended to read as follows:
       ``(8) A list of new projects for construction, repair, or 
     renovation commenced during the period covered by such 
     progress report, and a list of projects for construction, 
     repair, or renovation continuing from the period covered by 
     the preceding progress report.''.
       (d) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section 1236, as most 
     recently amended by section 1222 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, is further amended--
       (1) by striking ``in the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 for Overseas Contingency Operations in 
     title XV for fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``for the 
     Department of Defense for Overseas Contingency Operations for 
     fiscal year 2018''; and
       (2) by striking ``$630,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$1,269,000,000''.
       (e) Name of Islamic State or Iraq and Syria.--
       (1) In general.--Such section 1236 is further amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
       (i) by striking ``the Levant'' and inserting ``Syria''; and
       (ii) by striking ``ISIL'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``ISIS''; and
       (B) in subsection (l)--
       (i) in paragraph (1)(B)(i), by striking ``the Levant 
     (ISIL)'' and inserting ``Syria (ISIS)''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``ISIL'' and 
     inserting ``ISIS''.
       (2) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section 1236 is 
     amended to read as follows:

     ``SEC. 1236. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE 
                   ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA.''.

     SEC. 1223. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO 
                   THE VETTED SYRIAN OPPOSITION.

       (a) Nature of Assistance.--Subsection (a) of section 1209 
     of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
     113-291; 128 Stat. 3541), as amended by section 1221(a) of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2485), is further amended in 
     the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``construction 
     of training and associated facilities'' and inserting 
     ``construction and repair of training and associated 
     facilities or other facilities necessary to meet urgent 
     military operational requirements of a temporary nature with 
     a cost less than $4,000,000''.
       (b) Scope of Element on Construction Projects in Quarterly 
     Progress Reports.--Subsection (d)(9) of such section 1209 is 
     amended by inserting before the semicolon the following: ``, 
     including new construction or repair commenced during the 
     period covered by such progress report and construction and 
     repair continuing from the period covered by the preceding 
     progress report''.
       (c) Information Accompanying Reprogramming Requests.--
     Subsection (f)(2) of such section 1209, as amended by section 
     1221(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017, is further amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subparagraph:
       ``(C) A description of any material use of assistance 
     provided under subsection (a) by an appropriately vetted 
     recipient of such assistance for a purpose other than the 
     purposes specified in subsection (a) that occurred since the 
     most recent reprogramming or transfer request of the 
     Secretary pursuant to this subsection, which description 
     shall set forth, for each such material misuse, the 
     following:
       ``(i) The details of such material misuse.
       ``(ii) The recipient or recipients responsible for such 
     material misuse.
       ``(iii) The consequences of such material misuse.
       ``(iv) The actions taken by the Secretary to remediate the 
     causes and effects of such material misuse.''.
       (d) Limitation on Aggregate Cost of Construction and Repair 
     Projects.--Such section 1209 is further amended by adding at 
     the end the following new subsection:
       ``(l) Limitation on Aggregate Cost of Construction and 
     Repair Projects.--The aggregate amount of construction and 
     repair projects carried out under this section in any fiscal 
     year may not exceed $10,000,000.''.
       (e) Approval and Notice Before Certain Construction and 
     Repair Projects.--Such section 1209 is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(m) Approval and Notice Before Certain Construction and 
     Repair Projects.--
       ``(1) Approval.--A construction or repair project costing 
     more than $1,000,000 may not be carried out under this 
     section unless approved in advance by the Commander of the 
     United States Central Command.
       ``(2) Notice.--When a decision is made to carry out a 
     construction or repair project to which paragraph (1) 
     applies, the Commander of the United States Central Command 
     shall notify in writing the appropriate committees of 
     Congress of that decision, including the justification for 
     the project and the estimated cost of the project. The 
     project may be carried out only after the end of the 21-day 
     period beginning on the date the notification is received by 
     the committees or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period 
     beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification is 
     provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
     title 10, United States Code.''.

     SEC. 1224. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT 
                   OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF 
                   SECURITY COOPERATION IN IRAQ.

       (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (f)(1) of section 
     1215 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended by striking 
     ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2018''.
       (b) Amount Available.--
       (1) In general.--Such section is further amended--
       (A) in subsection (c), by striking ``fiscal year 2017 may 
     not exceed $70,000,000'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2018 may 
     not exceed $42,000,000''; and
       (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and 
     inserting ``fiscal year 2018''.
       (2) Limitation of use of fy18 funds pending plan.--Of the 
     amount available for fiscal year 2018 for section 1215 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, as 
     amended by this section, not more than 50 percent may be 
     obligated or expended until 30 days after the date on which 
     the plan required by the joint explanatory statement to 
     accompany the conference report on S.2943 of the 114th 
     Congress, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017, and entitled ``To transition the activities 
     conducted by OSC-I but funded by the Department of Defense to 
     another entity or transition the funding of such activities 
     to another source'' is provided to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress.
       (c) Clarification of OSC-I Mandate and Expansion of 
     Eligible Recipients.--Subsection (f) of such section 1215 is 
     further amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``training activities in 
     support of Iraqi Ministry of Defense and Counter Terrorism 
     Service personnel'' and all that follows and inserting 
     ``activities to support the following:
       ``(A) Defense institution building to mitigate capability 
     gaps and promote effective and sustainable defense 
     institutions.
       ``(B) Professionalization, strategic planning and reform, 
     financial management, manpower management, and logistics 
     management of military and other security forces with a 
     national security mission.''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) in the heading, by striking ``of training''; and
       (B) by striking ``training'' and inserting ``activities of 
     the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq''.

     SEC. 1225. MODIFICATION AND ADDITIONAL ELEMENTS IN ANNUAL 
                   REPORT ON THE MILITARY POWER OF IRAN.

       (a) In General.--Section 1245(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) 
     is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (5)--
       (A) by inserting ``and from'' after ``transfers to'';
       (B) by striking ``from non-Iranian sources'' and inserting 
     ``from or to non-Iranian sources or destinations''; and
       (C) by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``, including transfers that pertain to nuclear 
     development, ballistic missiles, and chemical, biological, 
     and advanced conventional weapons, weapon systems, and 
     delivery vehicles''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(6) An assessment of the use of civilian transportation 
     assets and infrastructure, including commercial aircraft, 
     airports, commercial vessels, and seaports, used to transport 
     illicit military cargo to or from Iran, including military 
     personnel, military goods, weapons, military-related electric 
     parts, and related components.
       ``(7) An assessment of military-to-military cooperation 
     between Iran and foreign counties, including Cuba, North 
     Korea, Pakistan, Sudan, Syria, Venezuela, and any other 
     country designated by the Secretary of Defense with 
     additional reference to cooperation and collaboration on the 
     development of nuclear, biological, chemical, and advanced 
     conventional weapons, weapon systems, and delivery vehicles.
       ``(8) An assessment of the extent to which the commercial 
     aviation sector of Iran knowingly provides financial, 
     material, or technological support to the Islamic 
     Revolutionary Guard Corps, the Ministry of Defense and Armed 
     Forces Logistics of Iran, the Bashar al-Assad regime, 
     Hezbollah, Hamas, Kata'ib Hezbollah, or any other foreign 
     terrorist organization.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     and shall apply with respect to reports required to be 
     submitted under section 1245 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 after that date.

     SEC. 1226. EXTENSION OF QUARTERLY REPORTS ON CONFIRMED 
                   BALLISTIC MISSILE LAUNCHES FROM IRAN AND 
                   IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS IN CONNECTION WITH 
                   THOSE LAUNCHES.

       Section 1226(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2487) is 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2022''.

     SEC. 1227. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR PROVISION OF MAN-
                   PORTABLE AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS TO THE VETTED 
                   SYRIAN OPPOSITION.

       (a) Limitation.--If a determination is made during fiscal 
     year 2018 to use funds available to the Department of Defense 
     for that fiscal year to provide man-portable air defense 
     systems

[[Page H8806]]

     (MANPADs) to the vetted Syrian opposition pursuant to the 
     authority in section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
     ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3541), such funds 
     may not be used for that purpose until--
       (1) the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State 
     jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     report on the determination; and
       (2) 30 days elapse after the date of the submittal of such 
     report to the appropriate congressional committees.
       (b) Report Requirements.--The report under subsection (a) 
     shall set forth the following:
       (1) A description of each element of the vetted Syrian 
     opposition that will provided man-portable air defense 
     systems as described in subsection (a), including--
       (A) the geographic location of such element;
       (B) a detailed intelligence assessment of such element;
       (C) a description of the alignment of such element within 
     the broader conflict in Syria; and
       (D) a description and assessment of the assurance, if any, 
     received by the commander of such element in connection with 
     the provision of man-portable air defense systems.
       (2) The number and type of man-portable air defense systems 
     to be so provided.
       (3) The logistics plan for providing and resupplying each 
     element to be so provided man-portable air defense systems 
     with additional man-portable air defense systems.
       (4) The duration of support to be provided in connection 
     with the provision of man-portable air defense systems.
       (5) The justification for the provision of man-portable air 
     defense systems to each element of the vetted Syrian 
     opposition, including an explanation of the purpose and 
     expected employment of such systems.
       (6) Any other matters that the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary of State jointly consider appropriate.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     has the meaning given that term in section 1209(e)(2) of the 
     Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3541).

     SEC. 1228. REPORT ON AGREEMENT WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 
                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION ON THE STATUS OF SYRIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 5 calendar days after 
     reaching any agreement with the Government of the Russian 
     Federation relating to a political settlement or long-term 
     territorial control in Syria, the President shall transmit to 
     Congress a report on the agreement.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include--
       (1) the text of the agreement, including all related 
     materials and annexes;
       (2) a list of all parties to the agreement;
       (3) an explanation of each of the terms established by the 
     agreement;
       (4) a description of each of the obligations established by 
     the agreement; and
       (5) a description of any territorial demarcations, 
     apportionments, or areas of control contemplated by the 
     agreement.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

     SEC. 1231. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION 
                   BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       Section 1232 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2488) is 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by inserting ``or 2018'' after ``fiscal year 2017''; 
     and
       (B) by inserting ``in the fiscal year concerned'' after 
     ``may be used''; and
       (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``with respect to funds 
     for a fiscal year'' after ``the limitation in subsection 
     (a)''.

     SEC. 1232. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO 
                   SOVEREIGNTY OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER 
                   CRIMEA.

       (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense may be 
     obligated or expended to implement any activity that 
     recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
     Crimea.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence 
     of the Secretary of State, may waive the restriction on the 
     obligation or expenditure of funds required by subsection (a) 
     if the Secretary--
       (1) determines that to do so is in the national security 
     interest of the United States; and
       (2) submits a notification of the waiver, at the time the 
     waiver is invoked, to the Committee on Armed Services and the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives 
     and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate.

     SEC. 1233. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON EUROPEAN SECURITY.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) Russia's ongoing aggressive actions, including its 
     invasions of Georgia in 2008 and Ukraine in 2014, threats to 
     North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies, rapid 
     military modernization, advanced anti-access and area denial 
     capabilities, increasing military activity in the Arctic 
     region and Mediterranean Sea, evolving nuclear doctrine and 
     capabilities, and violations of the Intermediate-Range 
     Nuclear Forces Treaty Between the United States of America 
     and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Treaty on 
     Open Skies, constitute a major challenge to the security 
     interests of the United States and its allies and partners in 
     Europe.
       (2) Russia's ongoing malign influence activities, including 
     misinformation, disinformation, propaganda, cyberattacks, 
     election interference, active measures, and hybrid warfare 
     operations pose not only a threat to the security interests 
     of the United States and its allies and partners in Europe, 
     but to the integrity of Western democracies and the 
     institutions and alliances they support.
       (3) Russia's doctrine of ``escalate to de-escalate'', along 
     with its tactical nuclear capabilities, threaten United 
     States forces and European allies and exacerbate the risk of 
     miscalculation and escalation in a crisis.
       (4) The European Deterrence Initiative (EDI) continues to 
     improve credible deterrence against Russian aggression by--
       (A) training and equipping military forces of NATO allies 
     and European partners;
       (B) enhancing the indications and warning, 
     interoperability, and logistics capabilities of United States 
     allies and partners; and
       (C) improving the agility and flexibility of partners and 
     allies to address threats across the full spectrum of 
     domains.
       (5) A strong NATO alliance is the cornerstone of 
     transatlantic security cooperation and the guarantor of peace 
     and stability in Europe.
       (6) The steps taken at the NATO 2014 Wales Summit and the 
     NATO 2016 Warsaw Summit, including the adoption and 
     implementation of the Readiness Action Plan (RAP), the 
     formation of the Very High Joint Readiness Force (VJTF), the 
     Enhanced Forward Presence (EFP) multinational battalions 
     deployed to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland, and the 
     Tailored Forward Presence in Romania and Bulgaria, have 
     strengthened NATO readiness and collective defense.
       (7) Montenegro's accession into NATO is a strong step 
     toward strengthening the alliance, enhancing security and 
     stability in Southeastern Europe, and reaffirming NATO's 
     commitment to an ``Open Door'' policy.
       (8) Cooperation with non-NATO allies and members of the 
     Partnership for Peace program enhances security and stability 
     in Europe.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States should support a Europe whole, free, 
     and at peace and the sovereign right of all European states 
     to pursue integration into the Euro-Atlantic community 
     through institutions such as NATO and the European Union;
       (2) the United States should develop and implement a policy 
     and strategy backed by all elements of United States power to 
     deter and, if necessary, defeat Russian aggression, which 
     will require--
       (A) enhancing United States military capability and 
     capacity in Europe, including strong consideration of 
     investments in increased permanently-stationed and continued 
     rotational forces as well as the facilities and 
     infrastructure necessary to support United States presence 
     and training with its allies and partners; and
       (B) strengthening United States capability and capacity to 
     counter malign Russian influence, including Russian hybrid 
     warfare operations short of traditional armed conflict, 
     malicious Russian cyber activities, and Russia's use of 
     misinformation, disinformation, and propaganda;
       (3) investments that support the security and stability of 
     Europe, including the EDI, and support to European countries 
     in further developing their security capabilities, are in the 
     long-term national security interests of the United States, 
     and as such, funds for such efforts should be included in the 
     President's base budget request for the Department of Defense 
     in order to fully support United States combat capability in 
     Europe, facilitate efficient planning and execution, and 
     ensure budgetary transparency;
       (4) the United States should maintain an ironclad 
     commitment to its obligations under Article 5 of the North 
     Atlantic Treaty, which declares that an ``armed attack 
     against one or more [NATO allies] shall be considered an 
     attack against them all'';
       (5) while NATO allies have made progress toward high levels 
     of defense spending, it is important that all NATO allies 
     fulfill their commitments to levels and composition of 
     defense expenditures as agreed upon at the NATO 2014 Wales 
     Summit and NATO 2016 Warsaw Summit in order to uphold their 
     obligations under Article 3 of the North Atlantic Treaty to 
     ``maintain and develop their individual and collective 
     capacity to resist armed attack'';
       (6) NATO allies should continue to coordinate defense 
     investments to both improve deterrence against Russian 
     aggression and more appropriately balance defense spending 
     across the alliance; and
       (7) because the NATO alliance defends not only the common 
     security of the United States and its NATO allies, but our 
     common values as well, it is essential that all NATO allies 
     uphold their obligations under the North Atlantic Treaty to 
     ``safeguard the freedom, common heritage and civilization of 
     their peoples, founded on the principles of democracy, 
     individual liberty and the rule of law''.

     SEC. 1234. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF UKRAINE SECURITY 
                   ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE.

       Section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068), as 
     amended by section 1237 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2494), is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), adding at the end the following new 
     paragraphs:
       ``(12) Treatment of wounded Ukrainian soldiers in the 
     United States in medical treatment facilities through the 
     Secretarial Designee Program, including transportation, 
     lodging, meals, and other appropriate non-medical support in

[[Page H8807]]

     connection with such treatment, and education and training 
     for Ukrainian healthcare specialists such that they can 
     provide continuing care and rehabilitation services for 
     wounded Ukrainian soldiers.
       ``(13) Air defense and coastal defense radars.
       ``(14) Naval mine and counter-mine capabilities.
       ``(15) Littoral-zone and coastal defense vessels.'';
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$175,000,000 of the 
     funds available for fiscal year 2017 pursuant to subsection 
     (f)(2)'' and inserting ``50 percent of the funds available 
     for fiscal year 2018 pursuant to subsection (f)(3)'';
       (B) in paragraph (2)--
       (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``, and potential 
     opportunities for privatization'' and inserting ``, 
     sustainment, and inventory management''; and
       (ii) in the second sentence, by inserting after 
     ``additional action is needed'' the following: ``and a 
     description of the methodology used to evaluate whether 
     Ukraine has made progress in defense institutional reforms 
     relative to previously established goals and objectives''; 
     and
       (C) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal 
     year 2018''; and
       (ii) by striking ``, with not more than $100,000,000 
     available for the purposes as follows for any particular 
     country'';
       (3) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) For fiscal year 2018, $350,000,000.''; and
       (4) in subsection (h), by striking ``December 31, 2018'' 
     and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.

     SEC. 1235. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO 
                   IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OPEN SKIES TREATY.

       (a) Limitation on Conduct of Flights.--
       (1) In general.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for any 
     fiscal year after fiscal year 2017 for the Department of 
     Defense for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, or 
     operation and maintenance, Air Force, may be obligated or 
     expended to conduct any flight during such fiscal year for 
     purposes of implementing the Open Skies Treaty until the date 
     that is seven days after the date on which the President 
     submits to the appropriate congressional committees a plan 
     described in paragraph (2) with respect to such fiscal year.
       (2) Plan described.--The plan described in this paragraph 
     is a plan developed by the Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, that contains a description of the objectives 
     for all planned flights described in paragraph (1) during 
     such fiscal year.
       (3) Update.--To the extent necessary and appropriate, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
     State, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, may update the plan 
     described in paragraph (2) with respect to a fiscal year and 
     submit the updated plan to the appropriate congressional 
     committees.
       (4) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence and Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Permanent Select 
     Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives.
       (5) Sunset.--The requirements of this subsection shall 
     terminate on the date that is five years after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.
       (b) Prohibition on Activities to Modify United States 
     Aircraft.--
       (1) In general.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for research, development, test, and 
     evaluation, Air Force, for arms control implementation (PE 
     0305145F) or procurement, Air Force, for digital visual 
     imaging system (BA-05, Line Item #1900) may be obligated or 
     expended to carry out any activities to modify any United 
     States aircraft for purposes of implementing the Open Skies 
     Treaty until the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
     appropriate congressional committees the certification 
     described in paragraph (2) and the President submits to the 
     appropriate congressional committees the certification 
     described in paragraph (3).
       (2) Certification by secretary of defense.--The 
     certification described in this paragraph is a certification 
     that contains a determination of the Secretary of Defense, 
     without delegation, that modification of digital visual 
     imaging systems in United States OC-135 aircraft under the 
     Open Skies Treaty will provide superior digital imagery as 
     compared to digital imagery that is available to the 
     Department of Defense on a commercial basis.
       (3) Certification by president.--
       (A) In general.--The certification described in this 
     paragraph is a certification of the President that--
       (i) the President has imposed treaty violations responses 
     and legal countermeasures on the Russian Federation for its 
     violations of the Open Skies Treaty; and
       (ii) the President has fully informed the appropriate 
     congressional committees of such responses and 
     countermeasures.
       (B) Delegation.--The President may delegate the 
     responsibility for making a certification under subparagraph 
     (A) to the Secretary of the State.
       (4) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (c) Open Skies Treaty Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``Open Skies Treaty'' means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at 
     Helsinki March 24, 1992, and entered into force January 1, 
     2002.

     SEC. 1236. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IMPORTANCE OF NUCLEAR 
                   CAPABILITIES OF NATO.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) The Warsaw Summit Communique, issued on July 9, 2016, 
     by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (in this section 
     referred to as ``NATO'') clearly defines the need for, and 
     the importance of, the nuclear mission of NATO.
       (2) The Warsaw Summit Communique states--
       (A) with respect to the nuclear deterrence capability of 
     NATO, ``As a means to prevent conflict and war, credible 
     deterrence and defence is essential. Therefore, deterrence 
     and defence, based on an appropriate mix of nuclear, 
     conventional, and missile defence capabilities, remains a 
     core element of our overall strategy. . . The fundamental 
     purpose of NATO's nuclear capability is to preserve peace, 
     prevent coercion, and deter aggression. Nuclear weapons are 
     unique. Any employment of nuclear weapons against NATO would 
     fundamentally alter the nature of a conflict. The 
     circumstances in which NATO might have to use nuclear weapons 
     are extremely remote'';
       (B) with respect to the nature of the nuclear deterrence 
     posture of NATO, ``NATO must continue to adapt its strategy 
     in line with trends in the security environment-including 
     with respect to capabilities and other measures required-to 
     ensure that NATO's overall deterrence and defence posture is 
     capable of addressing potential adversaries' doctrine and 
     capabilities, and that it remains credible, flexible, 
     resilient, and adaptable.''; and
       (C) with respect to the importance of contributions to the 
     nuclear deterrence mission from across the NATO alliance, 
     ``The strategic forces of the Alliance, particularly those of 
     the United States, are the supreme guarantee of the security 
     of the Allies. The independent strategic nuclear forces of 
     the United Kingdom and France have a deterrent role of their 
     own and contribute to the overall security of the Alliance. 
     These Allies' separate centres of decision-making contribute 
     to deterrence by complicating the calculations of potential 
     adversaries. NATO's nuclear deterrence posture also relies, 
     in part, on United States' nuclear weapons forward-deployed 
     in Europe and on capabilities and infrastructure provided by 
     Allies concerned. These Allies will ensure that all 
     components of NATO's nuclear deterrent remain safe, secure, 
     and effective. That requires sustained leadership focus and 
     institutional excellence for the nuclear deterrence mission 
     and planning guidance aligned with 21st century requirements. 
     The Alliance will ensure the broadest possible participation 
     of Allies concerned in their agreed nuclear burden-sharing 
     arrangements.''.
       (3) Secretary of Defense James Mattis, in response to the 
     advance policy questions for his Senate confirmation hearing 
     on January 12, 2017, stated that--
       (A) ``NATO's nuclear deterrence posture relies in part on 
     U.S. nuclear weapons forward-deployed in Europe and on 
     capabilities and infrastructure provided by NATO allies. 
     These capabilities include dual-capable aircraft that 
     contribute to current burden-sharing arrangements within 
     NATO. In general, we must take care to maintain this 
     particular capability, and to modernize it appropriately and 
     in a timely fashion.''; and
       (B) the role of the nuclear weapons of the United States is 
     ``to deter nuclear war and to serve as last resort weapons of 
     self-defense. In this sense, U.S. nuclear weapons are 
     fundamental to our nation's security and have historically 
     provided a deterrent against aggression and security 
     assurance to U.S. allies. A robust, flexible, and survivable 
     U.S. nuclear arsenal underpins the U.S. ability to deploy 
     conventional forces worldwide.''.
       (4) On March 28, 2017, General Curtis Scaparrotti, 
     Commander of the United States European Command and the 
     Supreme Allied Commander, Europe, testified to the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the House of Representatives that ``NATO 
     and U.S. nuclear forces continue to be a vital component of 
     our deterrence. Our modernization efforts are crucial; we 
     must preserve a ready, credible, and safe nuclear 
     capability.''.
       (5) The Russian Federation is currently undergoing 
     significant modernization and recapitalization of all three 
     legs of its nuclear triad, continues to field and modernize a 
     large variety of non-strategic nuclear weapons, and is 
     developing and deploying new and unique nuclear capabilities.
       (6) Russia remains in violation of the INF Treaty due to 
     the development, testing, and, most recently, the operational 
     deployment of ground-launched cruise missiles in violation of 
     the INF Treaty.
       (7) On March 28, 2017, General Paul Selva, Vice Chairman of 
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff, described the security 
     consequences of the deployment of such INF Treaty-violating 
     missiles, testifying to the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representatives that ``our assessment of the 
     impact is that it more threatens NATO and infrastructure 
     within the European continent than any other...area of the 
     world that we have national interests in or alliance 
     interests in.''.
       (8) On March 28, 2017, General Curtis Scaparrotti, in 
     testimony before the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives, responded to a question asking if Russia 
     intends to return to compliance with the INF Treaty by 
     stating, ``I don't have any indication that they will at this 
     time.''.
       (9) Rhetoric from Russian officials has demonstrated that 
     Moscow has sought to leverage its nuclear arsenal to threaten 
     and intimidate

[[Page H8808]]

     neighboring countries, including members of NATO, as was the 
     case when the Russian Ambassador to Denmark stated, ``Danish 
     warships will be targets for Russian nuclear missiles'' in 
     response to Denmark's potential cooperation in the NATO 
     missile defense system.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the nuclear and conventional deterrence capabilities of 
     NATO are of critical importance to the security of the United 
     States and of the NATO alliance, and must continue to adapt 
     to the changed security environment in Europe;
       (2) the ability of the United States to forward-deploy 
     dual-capable aircraft and nuclear weapons, and of select 
     members of NATO to participate in the nuclear deterrence 
     mission of NATO by hosting forward-deployed nuclear weapons 
     of the United States or operating dual-capable aircraft, is 
     central to the credibility of the nuclear deterrence and 
     defense posture of NATO;
       (3) the strategic forces of the United States, the 
     independent nuclear forces of the United Kingdom and the 
     French Republic, and the dual-capable aircraft operated by 
     the United States and other members of NATO constitute 
     foundational elements of the nuclear deterrence and defense 
     posture of NATO;
       (4) NATO should modernize its nuclear-related 
     infrastructure to ensure the highest-level of safety and 
     security;
       (5) effective deterrence requires NATO to conduct nuclear 
     planning and exercises aligned with 21st century requirements 
     and modernize nuclear-related capabilities and 
     infrastructure, including dual-capable aircraft, command and 
     control networks, and facilities; and
       (6) to ensure the continued credibility of the deterrence 
     and defense posture of NATO, the planned completion of F-35A 
     aircraft development and testing, as well as the delivery of 
     such aircraft to members of NATO, must not be delayed.
       (c) INF Treaty Defined.--In this section, the term ``INF 
     Treaty'' means the Treaty Between the United States of 
     America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the 
     Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range 
     Missiles, commonly referred to as the ``Intermediate- Range 
     Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty'', signed at Washington December 
     8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.

     SEC. 1237. REPORT ON SECURITY COOPERATION WITH RESPECT TO 
                   WESTERN BALKAN COUNTRIES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, with the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees and the Committees on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on security 
     cooperation with respect to Western Balkan countries.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required under 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) An assessment of security cooperation between each 
     Western Balkan country and the Russian Federation, including 
     the following:
       (A) A list of Russian weapons systems and other military 
     hardware and technology valued at $1,000,000 or more that 
     have been provided to or purchased by each Western Balkan 
     country since 2012.
       (B) A description of the participation of each Western 
     Balkan country's security forces in training or exercises 
     with the Russian Federation since 2012.
       (C) A description of any security cooperation agreements 
     each Western Balkan country has entered into with the Russian 
     Federation.
       (D) An assessment of intelligence cooperation between each 
     Western Balkan country and the Russian Federation.
       (E) An assessment of how security cooperation between each 
     Western Balkan country and the Russian Federation affects the 
     security interests of the United States, the North Atlantic 
     Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western Balkan country, and 
     each NATO member state that borders the Western Balkan 
     country.
       (2) An assessment of security cooperation between each 
     Western Balkan country and the United States, including the 
     following:
       (A) A list of United States weapons systems and other 
     military hardware and technology valued at $1,000,000 or more 
     that have been provided to or purchased by each Western 
     Balkan country since 2012.
       (B) A description of the participation of each Western 
     Balkan country's security forces in training or exercises 
     with the United States since 2012.
       (C) A description of any security cooperation agreements 
     each Western Balkan country has entered into with the United 
     States.
       (D) An assessment of intelligence cooperation between each 
     Western Balkan country and the United States.
       (3) An assessment of security cooperation between each 
     Western Balkan country and NATO.
       (4) A description of each Western Balkan country's 
     participation and activities in NATO's Partnership for Peace 
     program, if applicable.
       (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (d) Definition.--The term ``Western Balkan countries'' 
     means--
       (1) Serbia;
       (2) Bosnia and Herzegovina;
       (3) Kosovo; and
       (4) Macedonia.

     SEC. 1238. PLAN TO RESPOND IN CASE OF RUSSIAN NONCOMPLIANCE 
                   WITH THE NEW START TREATY.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate a report--
       (1) describing the options available in response to a 
     failure by Russia to achieve the reductions required by the 
     New START Treaty before February 5, 2018; and
       (2) including the assessment of the Secretary of Defense 
     whether such a failure would constitute a material breach of 
     the New START Treaty, providing grounds for the United States 
     to withdraw from the treaty.
       (b) Options Described.--The report required under 
     subsection (a) shall specifically describe options to respond 
     to such a failure relating to the following:
       (1) Economic sanctions.
       (2) Diplomacy.
       (3) Additional deployment of ballistic or cruise missile 
     defense capabilities, or other United States capabilities 
     that would offset any potential Russian military advantage 
     from such a failure.
       (4) Redeployment of United States nuclear forces beyond the 
     levels required by the New START Treaty, and the associated 
     costs and impacts on United States operations.
       (5) Legal countermeasures available under other treaties 
     between the United States and Russia, including under the 
     Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 1992, and 
     entered into force January 1, 2002.
       (c) New START Treaty.--In this section, the term ``New 
     START Treaty'' means the Treaty between the United States of 
     America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the 
     Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, 
     signed at Prague April 8, 2010, and entered into force 
     February 5, 2011.

     SEC. 1239. STRATEGY TO COUNTER THREATS BY THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       (a) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State and in consultation 
     with each of the Secretaries of the military departments, the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the commanders of each of the 
     regional and functional combatant commands, shall develop and 
     implement a comprehensive strategy to counter threats by the 
     Russian Federation.
       (b) Report Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     on the strategy required by subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--The report required by this subsection shall 
     include the following elements:
       (A) An evaluation of strategic objectives and motivations 
     of the Russian Federation.
       (B) A detailed description of Russian threats to the 
     national security of the United States, including threats 
     that may pose challenges below the threshold of armed 
     conflict.
       (C) A discussion of how the strategy complements the 
     National Defense Strategy and the National Military Strategy.
       (D) A discussion of the ends, ways, and means inherent to 
     the strategy.
       (E) A discussion of the strategy's objectives with respect 
     to deterrence, escalation control, and conflict resolution.
       (F) A description of the military activities across 
     geographic regions and military functions and domains that 
     are inherent to the strategy.
       (G) A description of the posture, forward presence, and 
     readiness requirements inherent to the strategy.
       (H) A description of the roles of the United States Armed 
     Forces in implementing the strategy, including--
       (i) the role of United States nuclear capabilities;
       (ii) the role of United States space capabilities;
       (iii) the role of United States cyber capabilities;
       (iv) the role of United States conventional ground forces;
       (v) the role of United States naval forces;
       (vi) the role of United States air forces; and
       (vii) the role of United States special operations forces.
       (I) An assessment of the force requirements needed to 
     implement and sustain the strategy.
       (J) A description of the logistical requirements needed to 
     implement and sustain the strategy.
       (K) An assessment of the technological research and 
     development requirements needed to implement and sustain the 
     strategy.
       (L) An assessment of the training and exercise requirements 
     needed to implement and sustain the strategy.
       (M) An assessment of the budgetary resource requirements 
     needed to implement and sustain the strategy through December 
     31, 2030.
       (N) An analysis of the adequacy of current authorities and 
     command structures for countering unconventional warfare.
       (O) Recommendations for improving the counter-
     unconventional warfare capabilities, authorities, and command 
     structures of the Department of Defense.
       (P) A discussion of how the strategy provides a framework 
     for future planning and investments in regional defense 
     initiatives, including the European Deterrence Initiative.
       (Q) A plan to increase conventional precision strike weapon 
     stockpiles in the United States European Command's areas of 
     responsibility, which shall include necessary increases in 
     the quantities of such stockpiles that the Secretary of 
     Defense determines will enhance deterrence and warfighting 
     capability of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces.
       (R) A plan to counter the military capabilities of the 
     Russian Federation, which, in addition to elements the 
     Secretary of Defense determines to be appropriate, shall 
     include recommendations for--
       (i) improving the capability of United States Armed Forces 
     to operate in a Global Positioning System (GPS)-denied or 
     GPS-degraded environment;

[[Page H8809]]

       (ii) improving the capability of United States Armed Forces 
     to counter Russian unmanned aircraft systems, electronic 
     warfare, and long-range precision strike capabilities; and
       (iii) countering unconventional capabilities and hybrid 
     threats from the Russian Federation.
       (3) Form.--The report required by this subsection shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1239A. STRATEGY TO COUNTER THE THREAT OF MALIGN 
                   INFLUENCE BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Strategy.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
     of State, in coordination with the appropriate United States 
     Government officials, shall jointly develop a comprehensive 
     strategy to counter the threat of malign influence by the 
     Russian Federation.
       (2) Scope of strategy.--The strategy required by paragraph 
     (1) shall include the following actions:
       (A) To attribute, defend against, and counter hybrid 
     warfare operations short of traditional armed conflict 
     against the United States and its allies and partners.
       (B) To deter, and respond when necessary, to malicious 
     cyber activities by the Russian Federation.
       (C) To identify and defend against the threat of malign 
     influence by the Russian Federation, including actions to 
     counter--
       (i) the use of misinformation, disinformation, and 
     propaganda in social and traditional media;
       (ii) corrupt or illicit financing of political parties, 
     think tanks, media organizations, and academic institutions; 
     and
       (iii) the use of coercive economic tools, including 
     sanctions, market access, cryptocurrencies, and differential 
     pricing, especially in the energy sector.
       (D) To promote the core values and principles of the United 
     States, enhance the transatlantic relationship, strengthen 
     good governance and democracy among European allies and 
     partners, and further integration into multilateral 
     institutions underpinning the global order, including the 
     North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European 
     Union.
       (b) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) Security measures.--Actions to counter the use of 
     force, coercion, and other hybrid warfare operations of the 
     military, intelligence, and other security forces, including 
     irregulars, groups, or individuals, of the Russian 
     Federation, including the following:
       (A) Actions to build the military presence and capabilities 
     of military and security forces of the United States and 
     European allies and partners to deter and respond to 
     aggression by the Russian Federation.
       (B) Actions to improve indications and warnings, and 
     capabilities to identify and attribute responsibility for the 
     use of force, coercion, or other hybrid warfare operations by 
     the Russian Federation.
       (C) Actions to support NATO allies and non-NATO partners in 
     maintaining their sovereignty and territorial integrity.
       (2) Information operations.--Actions to counter information 
     operations of the Russian Federation, including the 
     following:
       (A) Actions to identify, attribute, and counter malign 
     disinformation, active measures, propaganda, and deception 
     and denial activities of the Russian Federation in the United 
     States and Europe, through traditional and social media.
       (B) To enhance joint, regional, and combined information 
     operations and strategic communication strategies to counter 
     Russian Federation information warfare, malign influence, and 
     propaganda activities and increase cooperation, exercises, 
     and policy development with the NATO Strategic Communications 
     Center of Excellence.
       (C) The establishment of interagency mechanisms for the 
     coordination and implementation of the strategy with respect 
     to disinformation, active measures, propaganda, and deception 
     and denial activities of the Russian Federation.
       (D) Actions to strengthen the effectiveness of and fully 
     resource the Global Engagement Center to carry out its 
     purpose specified in section 1287(a)(2) of National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (22 U.S.C. 2656 note) 
     to lead, synchronize, and coordinate efforts of the Federal 
     Government to recognize, understand, expose, and counter 
     propaganda and disinformation efforts by the Russian 
     Federation, other foreign governments, and non-state actors.
       (E) Programs to strengthen investigative journalism and 
     media independence abroad in countries most vulnerable to 
     malign influence by the Russian Federation.
       (F) Actions to build resilience to disinformation, active 
     measures, propaganda, and deception and denial activities of 
     the Russian Federation in the United States and other 
     countries vulnerable to malign influence by the Russian 
     Federation.
       (G) Efforts to work with traditional and social media 
     providers to attribute and counter the threat of malign 
     influence by the Russian Federation.
       (3) Cyber measures.--Actions to counter the threat of 
     malign influence by the Russian Federation in cyberspace, 
     including the following:
       (A) To increase inclusion of regional cyber planning within 
     larger United States joint planning exercises in the European 
     region and increase joint exercises and policy development 
     through the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defense Center of 
     Excellence.
       (B) To identify potential areas of cybersecurity 
     collaboration and partnership capabilities with NATO and 
     other European allies and partners.
       (C) Programs to educate citizens, information and 
     communications technology experts, and private sector 
     organizations in the United States and abroad to enhance 
     their resilience to malign influence by the Russian 
     Federation in cyberspace.
       (4) Political and diplomatic measures.--Actions to counter 
     malign political influence by the Russian Federation in the 
     United States and among European allies and partners, 
     including the following:
       (A) Programs and activities to enhance the resilience of 
     United States democratic institutions and infrastructure at 
     the national and subnational levels.
       (B) Programs working through the Department of State and 
     the United States Agency for International Development to 
     promote good governance and enhance democratic institutions 
     abroad, particularly in countries deemed most vulnerable to 
     malign influence by the Russian Federation.
       (C) Actions within the United Nations, the Organization for 
     Security and Cooperation in Europe, and other multi-lateral 
     organizations to counter malign influence by the Russian 
     Federation.
       (D) Actions to identify organizations or networks of 
     individuals affiliated or collaborating with the Government 
     of the Russian Federation or proxies of the Russian 
     Federation in the United States or European allies and 
     partners.
       (5) Financial measures.--Actions to counter corrupt and 
     illicit financial networks of the Russian Federation in the 
     United States and abroad, including the following:
       (A) Actions to promote the transparency of corrupt and 
     illicit financial transactions of the Russian Federation, and 
     other anti-corruption measures.
       (B) Actions to maintain and enhance the focus within the 
     Department of the Treasury on tracing corrupt and illicit 
     financial flows linked to the Russian Federation that 
     interact with the United States financial system and exposing 
     beneficial ownership and opaque Russia-related business 
     transactions of significant importance.
       (C) Actions to build the capacity of financial intelligence 
     units of allies and partners.
       (D) Actions to enhance financial intelligence cooperation 
     between the United States and the European Union.
       (6) Energy security measures.--Actions to promote the 
     energy security of European allies and partners, and to 
     reduce their dependence on energy imports from the Russian 
     Federation that the Russian Federation uses as a weapon to 
     coerce, intimidate, and influence those countries, including 
     the following:
       (A) Actions to develop plans, working with the governments 
     of European allies and partners to enhance energy market 
     liberalization, effective regulation and oversight, energy 
     reliability, and energy efficiency.
       (B) Actions to work with the European Union to promote the 
     growth of liquefied natural gas trade and expansion of the 
     gas transport infrastructure in Europe.
       (C) Actions to promote a dialogue within the NATO on a 
     coherent, strategic approach to energy security for NATO 
     members and partner nations.
       (7) Promotion of values.--Actions to promote United States 
     values and principles to provide a strong, credible 
     alternative to malign influence by the Russian Federation, 
     including the following:
       (A) Actions to promote alliance structure, the importance 
     of transatlantic security as it relates to United States 
     national security, and the continued integration of countries 
     within multilateral institutions within Europe.
       (B) Public diplomacy and outreach to the people of the 
     Russian Federation.
       (c) Consistency With Other Laws.--The strategy required by 
     subsection (a) shall be consistent with the following:
       (1) The Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions 
     Act (Public law 115-44).
       (2) The Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8921 
     et seq.).
       (3) The Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, 
     and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8901 
     et seq.).
       (4) The Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 
     2012 (22 U.S.C. 5811 note).
       (d) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress a report detailing the strategy 
     required by subsection (a).
       (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In the 
     section the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Banking, Housing 
     and Urban Affairs, and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
     of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Financial 
     Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
     of the House of Representatives.

Subtitle E--Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Preservation 
                              Act of 2017

     SEC. 1241. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Intermediate-Range 
     Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Preservation Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 1242. FINDINGS.

       Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The 2014, 2015, and 2016 Department of State reports 
     entitled, ``Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, 
     Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and 
     Commitments'', all stated that the United States has 
     determined that ``the Russian Federation is in violation of 
     its obligations under the INF Treaty

[[Page H8810]]

     not to possess, produce, or flight-test a ground-launched 
     cruise missile (GLCM) with a range capability of 500 km to 
     5,500 km, or to possess or produce launchers of such 
     missiles''.
       (2) The 2016 report also noted that ``the cruise missile 
     developed by Russia meets the INF Treaty definition of a 
     ground-launched cruise missile with a range capability of 500 
     km to 5,500 km, and as such, all missiles of that type, and 
     all launchers of the type used or tested to launch such a 
     missile, are prohibited under the provisions of the INF 
     Treaty''.
       (3) Potential consistency and compliance concerns regarding 
     the INF Treaty noncompliant GLCM have existed since 2008, 
     were not officially raised with the Russian Federation until 
     2013, and were not briefed to the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (NATO) until January 2014.
       (4) The United States Government is aware of other 
     consistency and compliance concerns regarding Russia actions 
     vis-a-vis its INF Treaty obligations.
       (5) Since 2013, senior United States officials, including 
     the President, the Secretary of State, and the Chairman of 
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have raised Russian noncompliance 
     with the INF Treaty to their counterparts, but no progress 
     has been made in bringing the Russian Federation back into 
     compliance with the INF Treaty.
       (6) In April 2014, General Breedlove, the Supreme Allied 
     Commander Europe, correctly stated, ``A weapon capability 
     that violates the INF, that is introduced into the greater 
     European land mass, is absolutely a tool that will have to be 
     dealt with . . . It can't go unanswered.''.
       (7) The Department of Defense in its September 2013 report, 
     Report on Conventional Prompt Global Strike Options if Exempt 
     from the Restrictions of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear 
     Forces Treaty Between the United States of America and the 
     Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, stated that it has 
     multiple validated military requirement gaps due to the 
     prohibitions imposed on the United States as a result of its 
     compliance with the INF Treaty.
       (8) It is not in the national security interests of the 
     United States to be unilaterally legally prohibited from 
     developing dual-capable ground-launched cruise missiles with 
     ranges between 500 and 5,500 kilometers, while Russia makes 
     advances in developing and fielding this class of weapon 
     systems, and such unilateral limitation cannot be allowed to 
     continue indefinitely.
       (9) Admiral Harry Harris, Jr., Commander of the United 
     States Pacific Command, testified before the Senate Armed 
     Services Committee on April 27, 2017, that ``[W]e're in a 
     multi-polar world where we have a lot of countries who are 
     developing these weapons, including China, that I worry 
     about. And I worry about their DF-21 and DF-26 missile 
     programs, their anti-carrier ballistic missile programs, if 
     you will. INF doesn't address missiles launched from ships or 
     airplanes, but it focuses on those land-based systems. I 
     think there's goodness in the INF treaty, anything you can do 
     to limit nuclear weapons writ-large is generally good. But 
     the aspects of the INF Treaty that limit our ability to 
     counter Chinese and other countries' land-based missiles, I 
     think, is problematic.''.
       (10) A material breach of the INF Treaty by the Russian 
     Federation affords the United States the right to invoke 
     legal countermeasures which include suspension of the treaty 
     in whole or in part.
       (11) Article XV of the INF Treaty provides that ``Each 
     Party shall, in exercising its national sovereignty, have the 
     right to withdraw from this Treaty if it decides that 
     extraordinary events related to the subject matter of this 
     Treaty have jeopardized its supreme interests.''.

     SEC. 1243. COMPLIANCE ENFORCEMENT REGARDING RUSSIAN 
                   VIOLATIONS OF THE INF TREATY.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the actions undertaken by the Russian Federation in 
     violation of the INF Treaty constitute a material breach of 
     the treaty;
       (2) in light of the Russian Federation's material breach of 
     the INF Treaty, the United States is legally entitled to 
     suspend the operation of the INF Treaty in whole or in part 
     for so long as the Russian Federation continues to be in 
     material breach; and
       (3) for so long as the Russian Federation remains in 
     noncompliance with the INF Treaty, the United States should 
     take actions to encourage the Russian Federation return to 
     compliance, including by--
       (A) providing additional funds for the capabilities 
     identified in section 1243(d) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 1062); and
       (B) seeking additional missile defense assets in the 
     European theater to protect United States and NATO forces 
     from ground-launched missile systems of the Russian 
     Federation that are in noncompliance with the INF Treaty.
       (b) Availability of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2018 for research, 
     development, test, and evaluation, as specified in the 
     funding table in division D, $58,000,000 shall be made 
     available for the development of--
       (1) active defenses to counter ground-launched missile 
     systems with ranges between 500 and 5,500 kilometers;
       (2) counterforce capabilities to prevent attacks from these 
     missiles; and
       (3) countervailing strike capabilities to enhance the 
     capabilities of the United States identified in section 
     1243(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1062).
       (c) Development of INF Range Ground-launched Missile 
     System.--
       (1) Establishment of a program of record.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall establish a program of record to develop a 
     conventional road-mobile ground-launched cruise missile 
     system with a range of between 500 to 5,500 kilometers, 
     including research and development activities with respect to 
     such cruise missile system.
       (2) Report required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     on the cost and schedule for, and feasibility of, modifying 
     United States missile systems in existence or planned as of 
     such date of enactment for ground launch with a range of 
     between 500 and 5,500 kilometers as compared with the cost 
     and schedule for, and feasibility of, developing a new 
     ground-launched missile using new technology with the same 
     range.

     SEC. 1244. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT RELATED TO RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION DEVELOPMENT OF NONCOMPLIANT SYSTEMS 
                   AND UNITED STATES ACTIONS REGARDING MATERIAL 
                   BREACH OF INF TREATY BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Notification by Director of National Intelligence.--
       (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence 
     shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of any 
     development, deployment, or test of a system by the Russian 
     Federation that the Director determines is inconsistent with 
     the INF Treaty.
       (2) Deadline.--A notification under this subsection shall 
     be made not later than 15 days after the date on which the 
     Director makes the determination under this subsection with 
     respect to which the notification is required.
       (b) Withholding of Funds.--
       (1) In general.--An amount equal to $50,000,000 of the 
     amount authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
     available to the Department of Defense for operation and 
     maintenance, Defense-wide, for fiscal year 2018 to carry out 
     special mission area activities of the Defense Information 
     Systems Agency shall be withheld from obligation or 
     expenditure until the date on which the President has 
     submitted both the certification described in paragraph (2) 
     and the report described in subsection (e).
       (2) Certification described.--The certification described 
     in this paragraph is a certification by the President to the 
     appropriate congressional committees of the following:
       (A) Each requirement of section 1290 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2538; 22 U.S.C. 2593e) has been fully 
     implemented and is continuing to be fully implemented.
       (B) The President has notified the appropriate 
     congressional committees under such section 1290 of the 
     imposition of measures described in subsection (c) of such 
     section with respect to each person identified in a report 
     under subsection (a) of such section, including a detailed 
     description of the imposition of all such measures.
       (c) Report on Plan to Impose Additional Sanctions With 
     Respect to the Russian Federation.--
       (1) In general.--The President shall develop and submit to 
     the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that 
     includes--
       (A) a plan to impose the measures described in paragraph 
     (3) with respect to each person described in paragraph (2) by 
     reason of non-compliance by the Russian Federation with the 
     INF Treaty; and
       (B) a list of each such person.
       (2) Persons described.--The persons described in this 
     paragraph are individuals who--
       (A) the President determines are responsible for ordering 
     or facilitating non-compliance by the Russian Federation with 
     the INF Treaty; or
       (B) are senior foreign political figures (as such term is 
     defined in section 1010.605 of title 31, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, as in effect on the date of the enactment of 
     this Act) of the Government of the Russian Federation.
       (3) Measures described.--The measures described in this 
     paragraph are the following, with respect to a person 
     described in paragraph (2):
       (A) Blocking and prohibiting all transactions in property 
     and interests in property of such person, if such property 
     and interests in property are in the United States, come 
     within the United States, or are or come within the 
     possession or control of a United States person.
       (B) Inadmissibility to the United States, ineligibility to 
     receive a visa or other documentation to enter the United 
     States, and ineligibility to be admitted or paroled into the 
     United States or to receive any other benefit under the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), and 
     revocation of any visa or other entry documentation.
       (C) Prohibiting United States procurement from such person.
       (D) Any other sanctions the President determines to be 
     appropriate.
       (4) Form.--The report described in paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form.
       (5) Draft regulations required.--Not later than 60 days 
     after the date of the submission of the plan described in 
     paragraph (1), the President shall prescribe in draft form 
     such regulations as may be necessary to impose the measures 
     described in paragraph (3) with respect to each person 
     described in paragraph (2).

     SEC. 1245. REVIEW OF RS-26 BALLISTIC MISSILE.

       (a) In General.--The President, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of 
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, shall conduct a review of the RS-26 ballistic 
     missile of the Russian Federation.

[[Page H8811]]

       (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the President, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of 
     National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report on the review conducted 
     under subsection (a). The report shall include--
       (1) a determination whether the RS-26 ballistic missile is 
     covered under the New START Treaty or would be a violation of 
     the INF Treaty because Russia has flight-tested such missile 
     to ranges covered by the INF Treaty in more than one warhead 
     configuration; and
       (2) if the President determines that the RS-26 ballistic 
     missile is covered under the New START Treaty, a 
     determination whether the Russian Federation--
       (A) has agreed through the Bilateral Consultative 
     Commission that such a system is limited under the New START 
     Treaty central limits; and
       (B) has agreed to an exhibition of such a system.
       (c) Effect of Determination.--If the President, with the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, determines that the RS-26 
     ballistic missile is covered under the New START Treaty and 
     that the Russian Federation has not taken the steps described 
     under subsection (b)(2), the United States Government shall 
     consider for purposes of all policies and decisions that the 
     RS-26 ballistic missile of the Russian Federation is a 
     violation of the INF Treaty.

     SEC. 1246. DEFINITIONS.

       In this subtitle:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the 
     Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
       (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed 
     Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (2) INF treaty.--The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty 
     between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
     Socialist Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-
     Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, signed at Washington 
     December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
       (3) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
     community'' has the meaning given the term in section 3(4) of 
     the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
       (4) New start treaty.--The term ``New START Treaty'' means 
     the Treaty between the United States of America and the 
     Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and 
     Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed at Prague 
     April 8, 2010, and entered into force February 5, 2011.
       (5) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
     means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 
     1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.

      Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Indo-Asia-Pacific Region

     SEC. 1251. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND INITIATIVE FOR THE INDO-
                   ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the security, stability, and prosperity of the Indo-
     Asia-Pacific region are vital to the national interests of 
     the United States;
       (2) the United States should maintain a military capability 
     in the region that is able to project power, deter acts of 
     aggression, and respond, if necessary, to regional threats;
       (3) the defense of the United States and its allies against 
     North Korean or any other aggression remains a top priority;
       (4) continuing efforts by the Department of Defense to 
     realign forces, commit additional assets, and increase 
     investments to the Indo-Asia-Pacific region are necessary to 
     maintain a robust United States commitment to the region;
       (5) the Secretary of Defense should--
       (A) assess the current United States force posture in the 
     Indo-Asia-Pacific region to ensure that the United States 
     maintains an appropriate forward presence in the region;
       (B) invest in critical munitions, undersea warfare 
     capabilities, amphibious capabilities, resilient space 
     architectures, missile defense, offensive and defensive cyber 
     capabilities, and other capabilities conducive to operating 
     effectively in contested environments; and
       (C) enhance regional force readiness through joint training 
     and exercises, considering contingencies ranging from grey 
     zone to high-end near-peer conflict;
       (6) the United States commitment to freedom of navigation, 
     ensuring free access to sea lanes and overflights to the 
     United States naval and air forces, remains a core security 
     interest; and
       (7) the United States should continue to engage in the 
     Indo-Asia-Pacific region by strengthening alliances and 
     partnerships, supporting regional institutions and bodies 
     such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), 
     building cooperative security arrangements, addressing shared 
     challenges, and reinforcing the role of international law, 
     including respect for human rights.
       (b) Indo-Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative.--The Secretary 
     of Defense may carry out a program of activities to enhance 
     stability in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region that shall be known 
     as the ``Indo-Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative'' (in this 
     section referred to as the ``Initiative'').
       (c) Activities.--The activities under the Initiative shall 
     include the following:
       (1) Activities to increase the presence and capabilities 
     and enhance the posture of the United States Armed Forces in 
     the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
       (2) Bilateral and multilateral military training and 
     exercises with allies and partner nations in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region.
       (3) Activities to improve military and defense 
     infrastructure, logistics, and access in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region in order to enhance the responsiveness and 
     capabilities of the United States Armed Forces in that 
     region.
       (4) Activities to enhance the storage and pre-positioning 
     in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region of equipment of the United 
     States Armed Forces.
       (5) Activities to build the defense and security capacity--
       (A) of the United States Armed Forces in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region; and
       (B) of allies and partner nations in the Indo-Asia-Pacific 
     region, under--
       (i) section 2282 of title 10, United States Code, or 
     section 333 of such title, relating to the authority to build 
     the capacity of foreign security forces;
       (ii) section 332 of title 10, United States Code, relating 
     to defense institution capacity building for friendly foreign 
     countries and international and regional organizations;
       (iii) section 1263 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2282 note), relating to 
     the Southeast Asia Maritime Security Initiative;
       (iv) section 1206 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (10 U.S.C. 2282 note), relating to training of security 
     forces and associated ministries of foreign countries to 
     promote respect for the rule of law and human rights; or
       (v) any other authority available to the Secretary of 
     Defense.
       (d) General Transfer Authority.--Funds may only be made 
     available to carry out this section through the transfer 
     authority provided under section 1001.
       (e) Initial Assessment of Requirements.--
       (1) Plan required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a plan that 
     includes the following:
       (A) A detailed description of each project or activity to 
     be carried out under the Initiative, including any request of 
     the Commander of the United States Pacific Command for 
     support, urgent operational need, or emergent operational 
     need.
       (B) The amount planned to be obligated or expended on each 
     such project or activity, and the timeline for such 
     obligation or expenditure.
       (2) Form.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (f) Indo-asia-pacific Region Defined.--In this subtitle, 
     the term ``Indo-Asia-Pacific region'' means the region that 
     falls under the responsibility and jurisdiction of United 
     States Pacific Command.

     SEC. 1252. REPORT ON STRATEGY TO PRIORITIZE UNITED STATES 
                   DEFENSE INTERESTS IN THE INDO-ASIA-PACIFIC 
                   REGION.

       (a) Extension of Deadline for Strategy.--Subsection (a) of 
     section 1261 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1072) is 
     amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking 
     ``March 1, 2017'' and inserting ``March 1, 2018''.
       (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     on which the President issues the Presidential Policy 
     Directive required under subsection (b) of such section 1261, 
     the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary 
     of State, shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, 
     and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives a report that contains a strategy to 
     prioritize United States defense interests in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region. The strategy shall be informed by the overall 
     strategy described in subsection (a) and shall address each 
     of the following:
       (1) The national security interests of the United States in 
     the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
       (2) The security environment, including threats to global 
     and regional national security interests of the United States 
     emanating from the Indo-Asia-Pacific region such as efforts 
     by China to advance national interests in the region.
       (3) The primary objectives and priorities in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region, including--
       (A) the military missions necessary to address threats on 
     the Korean Peninsula;
       (B) the role of the Department of Defense in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region regarding security challenges posed by China;
       (C) the primary objectives and priorities for combating 
     terrorism in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region;
       (4) Department of Defense plans, force posture, 
     capabilities, and resources to support United States national 
     security interests and to address any gaps.
       (5) The roles of allies, partners, and other countries in 
     achieving United States defense objectives and priorities.
       (6) Actions the Department of Defense could take, in 
     cooperation with other Federal departments or agencies, to 
     advance United Sates national security interests in the Indo-
     Asia-Pacific region.
       (7) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
     to be appropriate.
       (c) Form.--The report required by subsections (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Repeal.--Section 1251 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
     ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015

[[Page H8812]]

     (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3570) is hereby repealed.

     SEC. 1253. ASSESSMENT OF UNITED STATES FORCE POSTURE AND 
                   BASING NEEDS IN THE INDO-ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.

       (a) Assessment Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
     assessment of United States force posture and basing needs in 
     the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
       (2) Elements.--The assessment required under paragraph (1) 
     shall include the following:
       (A) A review of military requirements based on operation 
     and contingency plans, scenarios, capabilities of potential 
     adversaries, and any assessed gaps or shortfalls of the Armed 
     Forces.
       (B) A review of current United States military force 
     posture and deployment plans of the United States Pacific 
     Command.
       (C) An analysis of potential future realignments of United 
     States forces in the region, including options for 
     strengthening United States presence, access, readiness, 
     training, exercises, logistics, and pre-positioning.
       (D) A discussion of any factors that may influence the 
     United States posture.
       (E) Any recommended changes to the United States posture in 
     the region.
       (F) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
     to be appropriate.
       (b) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report that includes the assessment 
     required under subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1254. PLAN TO ENHANCE THE EXTENDED DETERRENCE AND 
                   ASSURANCE CAPABILITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN 
                   THE ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.

       (a) Finding.--Congress recognizes that Democratic People's 
     Republic of Korea successful test of an intercontinental 
     ballistic missile (ICBM) and nuclear explosive tests 
     constitute a grave and imminent threat to United States 
     security and to the security of United States allies and 
     partners in the Asia-Pacific region.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the nuclear and missile program of North Korea is one 
     of the most dangerous national security threats facing the 
     United States today and the defense of the Republic of Korea 
     and Japan must remain a top priority for the administration;
       (2) given the threat posed by North Korea to our allies, 
     the United States maintains an unwavering and steadfast 
     commitment to the policy of extended deterrence, especially 
     with respect to South Korea and Japan;
       (3) the Department of Defense's Nuclear Posture Review that 
     is to be completed in 2017 should fully consider--
       (A) the perspectives of key allies and partners of the 
     United States in the Asia-Pacific region; and
       (B) actions to reassure South Korea and Japan of the 
     enduring commitment of the United States to provide its full 
     range of defensive capabilities;
       (4) bilateral extended deterrence dialogues and discussions 
     with South Korea and Japan are of great value to the United 
     States and its allies and partners in the Asia-Pacific region 
     and must remain a central component of these relationships;
       (5) the United States must sustain and modernize current 
     United States nuclear capabilities to ensure the extended 
     deterrence commitments of the United States remain credible 
     and executable; and
       (6) the timely development, production, and deployment of 
     modern nuclear-capable aircraft are fundamental to ensure 
     that the United States remains able to meet extended 
     deterrence requirements in the Asia-Pacific region far into 
     the future.
       (c) Plan.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Commander of the United States Pacific 
     Command and the Commander of the United States Strategic 
     Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a plan to enhance the extended deterrence and assurance 
     capabilities of the United States in the Asia-Pacific region.
       (d) Matters to Be Included.--Such plan shall include 
     consideration of actions that will enhance United States 
     security by strengthening deterrence of North Korean 
     aggression and providing increased assurance to United States 
     allies in the Asia-Pacific region, including the following:
       (1) Increased visible presence of key United States 
     military assets, such as missile defenses, long-range strike 
     assets, and intermediate-range strike assets to the region.
       (2) Increased military cooperation, exercises, and 
     integration of defenses with allies in the region.
       (3) Increased foreign military sales to allies in the 
     region.
       (4) Planning for, exercising, or deploying dual-capable 
     aircraft to the region.
       (5) Any necessary modifications to the United States 
     nuclear force posture, including re-deployment of submarine-
     launched nuclear cruise missiles to the region.
       (6) Such other actions the Secretary considers appropriate 
     to strengthen extended deterrence and assurance in the 
     region.
       (e) Form.--Such plan shall be submitted in unclassified 
     form, but may contain a classified annex.
       (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
     construed to alter the shared goal of the United States, 
     South Korea, and Japan for a denuclearized Korean Peninsula.

     SEC. 1255. SENSE OF CONGRESS REAFFIRMING SECURITY COMMITMENTS 
                   TO THE GOVERNMENTS OF JAPAN AND SOUTH KOREA AND 
                   TRILATERAL COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED 
                   STATES, JAPAN, AND SOUTH KOREA.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States values its alliances with the 
     Governments of Japan and the Republic of Korea, based on 
     shared values of democracy, the rule of law, free and open 
     markets, and respect for human rights;
       (2) the United States reaffirms its commitment to these 
     alliances with Japan and South Korea, which are cornerstones 
     for the preservation of peace and stability in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region and throughout the world;
       (3) the United States recognizes the substantial financial 
     commitments of Japan and South Korea to the maintenance of 
     United States forces in these countries, making them among 
     the most significant burden-sharing partners of the United 
     States;
       (4) the United States, South Korea, and Japan are 
     indispensable partners in tackling global challenges, 
     including combating the proliferation of weapons of mass 
     destruction, preventing piracy, assisting the victims of 
     conflict and disaster worldwide, safeguarding maritime 
     security, and ensuring freedom of navigation, commerce, and 
     overflight in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region;
       (5) the United States reaffirms its commitment to Article V 
     of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between the 
     United States of America and Japan, which applies to the 
     Japanese-administered Senkaku Islands;
       (6) although the United States Government does not take a 
     position on sovereignty of the Senkaku Islands, the United 
     States acknowledges that the islands are under the 
     administration of Japan and opposes any unilateral actions 
     that would seek to undermine their administration by Japan, 
     and any such unilateral actions of a third party will not 
     affect United States' acknowledgement of the administration 
     of Japan over the Senkaku Islands;
       (7) the United States supports continued strengthening of 
     defense cooperation with Japan in accordance with the 2015 
     U.S.-Japan Defense Guidelines and additional measures to 
     strengthen this defense cooperation, including by expanding 
     foreign military sales, establishing new cooperative 
     technology development programs, increasing military 
     exercises, or other actions as appropriate;
       (8) the United States and South Korea share deep concerns 
     that the nuclear and ballistic missile programs of North 
     Korea and its repeated provocations pose great threats to 
     peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula, and the United 
     States recognizes that South Korea has made important 
     commitments to the bilateral security alliance, including by 
     hosting a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system;
       (9) the United States and South Korea should continue 
     further defense cooperation, by enhancing mutual security 
     based on the Mutual Defense Treaty between the United States 
     and the Republic of Korea and investing in capabilities 
     critical to the combined defense;
       (10) the United States should closely consult and 
     coordinate with South Korea on measures to strengthen the 
     alliance and defend against provocations committed by the 
     North Korean regime;
       (11) the United States welcomes greater security 
     cooperation with, and among, Japan and South Korea to promote 
     mutual interests and address shared concerns, including the 
     bilateral military intelligence-sharing pact between Japan 
     and South Korea, signed on November 23, 2016, and the 
     trilateral intelligence sharing agreement between the United 
     States, Japan, and South Korea, signed on December 29, 2015; 
     and
       (12) recognizing that North Korea poses a threat to each of 
     the United States, Japan, and South Korea, and that the 
     security of the three countries is intertwined, the United 
     States welcomes and encourages deeper trilateral defense 
     coordination and cooperation, including through expanded 
     exercises, training, and information sharing that strengthens 
     integration.

     SEC. 1256. STRATEGY ON NORTH KOREA.

       (a) Report on Strategy Required.--Not later than 90 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President 
     shall submit to Congress a report setting forth the strategy 
     of the United States with respect to North Korea.
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) A description and assessment of the primary threats to 
     United States national security interests from North Korea.
       (2) A description of known foreign nation, foreign entity, 
     or individual violations of current United Nations sanctions 
     against North Korea, together with parameters for determining 
     whether and on what timeline it serves United States 
     interests to target such violators with unilateral secondary 
     sanctions.
       (3) A description of the diplomatic, economic, and trade 
     relationships between China and North Korea and between 
     Russia and North Korea, including trends in such 
     relationships and their impact on the Government of North 
     Korea.
       (4) An identification of the diplomatic, economic, and 
     security objectives for the Korean Peninsula and the desired 
     end state in North Korea with respect to the security threats 
     emanating from North Korea.
       (5) A detailed roadmap to reach the objectives and end 
     state identified pursuant to paragraph (4), including 
     timelines for each element of the roadmap.
       (6) A description of the unilateral and multilateral 
     options available to the United States regarding North Korea, 
     together with an assessment of the degree to which such 
     options would impose costs on North Korea.

[[Page H8813]]

       (7) A description of the resources and authorities 
     necessary to carry out the roadmap described in paragraph 
     (5).
       (8) A description of operational plans and associated 
     military requirements for the protection of United States 
     interests with respect to North Korea.
       (9) An identification of any capability or resource gaps 
     that would affect the implementation of the strategy 
     described in subsection (a), and a mitigation plan to address 
     such gaps.
       (10) An assessment of current and desired partner 
     contributions to countering threats from North Korea, and a 
     plan to enhance cooperation among countries with shared 
     security interests with respect to North Korea.
       (11) Any other matters the President considers appropriate.
       (c) Annual Updates.--The President shall submit to Congress 
     in writing on an annual basis a report describing and 
     assessing progress in the implementation of the strategy 
     described in subsection (a).
       (d) Form.--The report under subsection (a) and each report 
     under subsection (c) shall be submitted in unclassified form, 
     but may include a classified annex.

     SEC. 1257. NORTH KOREAN NUCLEAR INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC 
                   MISSILES.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the 
     congressional defense committees a briefing on the hazards or 
     risks posed directly or indirectly by the nuclear ambitions 
     of North Korea, focusing upon--
       (1) the development and deployment of intercontinental 
     ballistic missiles or nuclear weapons;
       (2) the consequences to the United States, the interests of 
     the United States, and allies of the United States of North 
     Korea's nuclear and missile programs;
       (3) a plan to deter and defend against such threats from 
     North Korea;
       (4) protecting vital interest and capabilities of the 
     United States in space from such threats from North Korea; 
     and
       (5) the potential damage or destruction caused by 
     electromagnetic pulse weapons.

     SEC. 1258. ADVANCEMENTS IN DEFENSE COOPERATION BETWEEN THE 
                   UNITED STATES AND INDIA.

       (a) In General.--Section 1292(a) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for the Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-
     328; 130 Stat. 2559; 22 U.S.C. 2751 note) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (E), by inserting before the semicolon 
     at the end the following: ``, and to advance the 
     Communications Interoperability and Security Memorandum of 
     Agreement and The Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement 
     for Geospatial Cooperation'';
       (B) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (C) in subparagraph (I), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``, including common security, and to enhance 
     role of United States partners and allies in the defense 
     relationship between the United States and India;''; and
       (D) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(J) support joint exercises, operations, and patrols and 
     mutual defense planning with India;
       ``(K) work with representatives of the Government of the 
     Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Government of India 
     to promote stability and development in Afghanistan; and
       ``(L) support such other matters with respect to defense 
     and security cooperation with India that the Secretary of 
     Defense or the Secretary of State consider appropriate.'';
       (2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following 
     new sentence: ``The report shall also include a forward-
     looking strategy on enhancing defense and security 
     cooperation with India.''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) Report form.--The report required by paragraph (2) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.''.
       (b) Interagency Definition of India as Major Defense 
     Partner.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, 
     and the Secretary of Commerce shall jointly produce a common 
     definition that recognizes India's status as a ``Major 
     Defense Partner'' for joint use by the Department of Defense, 
     the Department of State, and the Department of Commerce.
       (c) Responsibility for Enhanced Cooperation.--
       (1) Designation of responsible individual.--Not later than 
     90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State jointly shall 
     make the designation required by paragraph (1)(B) of section 
     1292(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017.
       (2) Additional duties.--Paragraph (1)(B) of section 1292(a) 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 is amended--
       (A) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in clause (ii), by adding ``and'' at the end; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
       ``(iii) to promote United States defense trade with India 
     for the benefit of job creation and commercial 
     competitiveness in the United States;''.
       (3) Briefings.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every year thereafter, 
     appropriate officials of the Office of the Secretary of 
     Defense and appropriate officials of the Department of State 
     shall brief the appropriate committees of Congress on the 
     actions of the Department of Defense and the Department of 
     State, respectively, to promote defense cooperation between 
     the United States and India and the duties specified in 
     paragraph (1)(B) of section 1292(a) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (as amended by 
     paragraph (2) of this subsection). The requirement for 
     briefings under this paragraph shall cease on the date of the 
     designation of an individual pursuant to paragraph (1).
       (4) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1259. STRENGTHENING THE DEFENSE PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE 
                   UNITED STATES AND TAIWAN.

       (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United 
     States to reinforce its commitments to Taiwan under the 
     Taiwan Relations Act and consistent with the ``Six 
     Assurances'' as both governments work to improve Taiwan's 
     self-defense capability.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the United States should--
       (1) strengthen and enhance its longstanding partnership and 
     cooperation with Taiwan;
       (2) conduct regular transfers of defense articles and 
     defense services necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a 
     sufficient self-defense capability, based solely on the needs 
     of Taiwan;
       (3) invite the military forces of Taiwan to participate in 
     military exercises, such as the ``Red Flag'' exercises;
       (4) carry out a program of exchanges of senior military 
     officers and senior officials with Taiwan to improve 
     military-to-military relations, as expressed in section 1284 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2544);
       (5) support expanded exchanges focused on practical 
     training for Taiwan personnel by and with United States 
     military units, including exchanges among services;
       (6) conduct bilateral naval exercises, to include pre-sail 
     conferences, in the western Pacific Ocean with the Taiwan 
     navy; and
       (7) consider the advisability and feasibility of 
     reestablishing port of call exchanges between the United 
     States navy and the Taiwan navy.

     SEC. 1259A. NORMALIZING THE TRANSFER OF DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
                   DEFENSE SERVICES TO TAIWAN.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     any requests from the Government of Taiwan for defense 
     articles and defense services should receive a case-by-case 
     review by the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State, that is consistent with the standard 
     processes and procedures in an effort to normalize the arms 
     sales process with Taiwan.
       (b) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date on 
     which the Secretary of Defense receives a Letter of Request 
     from Taiwan with respect to the transfer of a defense article 
     or defense service to Taiwan, the Secretary, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report that includes--
       (A) the status of such request;
       (B) if the transfer of such article or service would 
     require a certification or report to Congress pursuant to any 
     applicable provision of section 36 of the Arms Export Control 
     Act (22 U.S.C. 2776), the status of any Letter of Offer and 
     Acceptance the Secretary of Defense intends to issue with 
     respect to such request; and
       (C) an assessment of whether the transfer of such article 
     or service would be consistent with United States obligations 
     under the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 96-8; 22 U.S.C. 
     3301 et seq.).
       (2) Elements.--Each report required under paragraph (1) 
     shall specify the following:
       (A) The date the Secretary of Defense received the Letter 
     of Request.
       (B) The value of the sale proposed by such Letter of 
     Request.
       (C) A description of the defense article or defense service 
     proposed to be transferred.
       (D) The view of the Secretary of Defense with respect to 
     such proposed sale and whether such sale would be consistent 
     with United States defense initiatives with Taiwan.
       (3) Form.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a 
     classified annex.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
     State, shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
     congressional committees with respect to the security 
     challenges faced by Taiwan and the military cooperation 
     between the United States and Taiwan, including a description 
     of any requests from Taiwan for the transfer of defense 
     articles or defense services and the status, whether signed 
     or unsigned, of any Letters of Offer and Acceptance with 
     respect to such requests.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate.
       (2) Defense article; defense service.--The terms ``defense 
     article'' and ``defense service'' have the meanings given 
     such terms in section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
     U.S.C. 2794).
       (3) Letter of request; letter of offer and acceptance.--The 
     terms ``Letter of Request'' and ``Letter of Offer and 
     Acceptance'' have the meanings given such terms for purposes 
     of Chapter 5 of the Security Assistance Management Manual of 
     the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, as in effect on the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.

[[Page H8814]]

  


     SEC. 1259B. ASSESSMENT ON UNITED STATES DEFENSE IMPLICATIONS 
                   OF CHINA'S EXPANDING GLOBAL ACCESS.

       (a) Assessment.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of State, shall assess the foreign 
     military and non-military activities of the People's Republic 
     of China that could affect the regional and global national 
     security and defense interests of the United States.
       (2) Elements.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) 
     shall evaluate the following:
       (A) The expansion by China of military and non-military 
     means in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region and globally, including 
     influence campaigns, loans, access to military equipment, 
     military training, tourism, media, investment projects, 
     infrastructure, and access to foreign ports and military 
     bases, and whether such means could affect United States 
     national security or defense interests, including operational 
     access.
       (B) The implications, if any, of such means for the 
     military force posture, access, training, and logistics of 
     both the United States and China.
       (C) The United States strategy and policy for mitigating 
     any harmful effects resulting from such means.
       (D) The resources required to implement such strategy and 
     policy, and the plan to address and mitigate any gaps in 
     capabilities or resources necessary for such implementation 
     of the policy and strategy.
       (E) Measures to bolster the roles of allies, partners, and 
     other countries to implement such strategy and policy.
       (F) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense or the 
     Secretary of State determines to be appropriate.
       (3) Report required.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
     of the House of Representatives a report on the assessment 
     required under subsection (b).
       (B) Form.--The report required by this paragraph shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1259C. AGREEMENT SUPPLEMENTAL TO COMPACT OF FREE 
                   ASSOCIATION WITH PALAU.

       (a) Approval of Agreement Supplemental to Compact.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
     appropriations that meet the total financial obligations for 
     such purpose, the Compact Review Agreement and appendices 
     signed by the United States and the Republic of Palau on 
     September 3, 2010, in connection with section 432 of the 
     Compact of Free Association with Palau (Public Law 99-658; 48 
     U.S.C. 1931 note) are approved.
       (2) Funding schedule.--The Compact Review Agreement 
     includes a funding schedule that is to be modified by the 
     parties to the Compact Review Agreement, and such funding 
     schedule (as so modified) is approved. The Compact Review 
     Agreement, appendices, and funding schedule (as so modified) 
     are referred to hereinafter as the ``Agreement''.
       (b) Status of Prior Year Payments.--Amounts provided to the 
     Government of Palau by the Government of the United States in 
     fiscal years 2011 through 2017 shall also be considered as 
     funding to implement the Agreement.
       (c) Extension of Effective Date.--Section 105(f)(1)(B)(ix) 
     of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 
     U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(B)(ix)) is amended by striking ``2009'' 
     and inserting ``2024''.

     SEC. 1259D. STUDY ON UNITED STATES INTERESTS IN THE FREELY 
                   ASSOCIATED STATES.

       (a) Study Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter 
     into an agreement with an appropriate independent entity to 
     conduct a study and assessment of United States security and 
     foreign policy interests in the Freely Associated States of 
     the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, 
     and the Federated States of Micronesia.
       (b) Elements.--The study required pursuant to subsection 
     (a) shall address the following:
       (1) The role of the Compacts of Free Association in 
     promoting United States defense and foreign policy interests, 
     including the United States defense posture and plans.
       (2) The status of the obligations of the United States and 
     the Freely Associated States under the Compacts of Free 
     Association.
       (3) The economic assistance practices of the People's 
     Republic of China in the Freely Associated States, and the 
     implications of such practices for United States defense and 
     foreign policy interests in the Freely Associated States and 
     the Pacific region.
       (4) The economic assistance practices of other countries in 
     the Freely Associated States, as determined by the 
     Comptroller General, and the implications of such practices 
     for United States defense and foreign policy interests in the 
     Freely Associated States and the Pacific region.
       (5) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate 
     for purposes of the study.
       (c) Department of Defense Support.--The Secretary shall 
     provide the entity conducting the study pursuant to 
     subsection (a) with timely access to appropriate information, 
     data, resources, and analysis so that the entity may conduct 
     a thorough and independent assessment of the matters covered 
     by the study, including the matters specified in subsection 
     (b).
       (d) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report setting forth the results of the study 
     conducted pursuant to subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified for, but may include a classified 
     annex.

                          Subtitle G--Reports

     SEC. 1261. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND 
                   SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE PEOPLE'S 
                   REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

       Subsection (b) of section 1202 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65; 10 
     U.S.C. 113 note), as most recently amended by section 1271 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2538), is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(23) Any Chinese laws, regulations, or policies that 
     could jeopardize the economic security of the United 
     States.''.

     SEC. 1262. MODIFICATIONS TO ANNUAL UPDATE OF DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE FREEDOM OF NAVIGATION OPERATIONS 
                   REPORT.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Scope of report.--Subsection (a) of section 1275 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2540) is amended by inserting 
     ``or have not been so challenged'' after ``international 
     law''.
       (2) Unchallenged claims.--Subsection (b) of such section 
     1275 is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) For each country identified under paragraph (1), the 
     types of any excessive maritime claims by such country that 
     have not been challenged by the United States under the 
     program referred to in subsection (a).
       ``(5) A list of each country, other than a country 
     identified under paragraph (1), making excessive maritime 
     claims that have not been challenged by the United States 
     under the program referred to in subsection (a) and the types 
     and natures of such claims.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made subsection (a) 
     take effect of the date of the enactment of this Act and 
     apply with respect to each report required to be submitted 
     under section 1275 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 on or after such date of enactment.

     SEC. 1263. REPORT ON STRATEGY TO DEFEAT AL-QAEDA, THE 
                   TALIBAN, THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA 
                   (ISIS), AND THEIR ASSOCIATED FORCES AND CO-
                   BELLIGERENTS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on the United 
     States strategy to defeat Al-Qaeda, the Taliban, the Islamic 
     State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), and their associated forces 
     and co-belligerents.
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) An analysis of the adequacy of the existing legal 
     framework to accomplish the strategy described in subsection 
     (a), particularly with respect to the Authorization for Use 
     of Military Force (Public Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note) 
     and the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq 
     Resolution of 2002 (Public Law 107-243; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note).
       (2) An analysis of the estimated defense and non-defense 
     budgetary resources through fiscal year 2022 necessary to 
     accomplish the strategy described in subsection (a).
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1264. REPORT ON AND NOTICE OF CHANGES MADE TO THE LEGAL 
                   AND POLICY FRAMEWORKS FOR THE UNITED STATES' 
                   USE OF MILITARY FORCE AND RELATED NATIONAL 
                   SECURITY OPERATIONS.

       (a) Initial Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on the legal 
     and policy frameworks for the United States' use of military 
     force and related national security operations.
       (2) Matters to be included.--The report required by 
     paragraph (1) shall include the legal, factual, and policy 
     justifications for any changes made to such legal and policy 
     frameworks during the period beginning on January 20, 2017, 
     and ending on the date the report is submitted.
       (b) Notice Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
     on which a change is made to the legal and policy frameworks 
     described in subsection (a)(1), the President shall notify 
     the appropriate congressional committees of such change, 
     including the legal, factual, and policy justification for 
     such change.
       (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) and each 
     notice required by subsection (b) shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1265. REPORT ON MILITARY ACTION OF SAUDI ARABIA AND ITS 
                   COALITION PARTNERS IN YEMEN.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 2 
     years, the Secretary of

[[Page H8815]]

     Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a report on military 
     action of Saudi Arabia and its coalitions partners in Yemen.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include a description of the following:
       (1) The extent to which the Government of Saudi Arabia and 
     its coalition partners in Yemen are taking demonstrable 
     actions to--
       (A) reduce the risk of harm to civilians and civilian 
     objects, in compliance with obligations under international 
     humanitarian law, including by minimizing harm to civilians, 
     discriminating between civilian objects and military 
     objectives, and exercising proportional use of force;
       (B) facilitate the flow of humanitarian aid and commercial 
     goods into Yemen, including commercial fuel and commodities 
     not subject to sanction or prohibition under United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 2216 (2015); and
       (C) target al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and affiliates 
     of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria as part of the 
     coalition's military operations in Yemen.
       (2) The role of United States military personnel with 
     respect to operations of such coalition partners in Yemen.
       (3) Progress made by the Government of Saudi Arabia and its 
     coalition partners in avoiding and investigating, if 
     necessary, civilian casualties, including improvements to--
       (A) targeting methodology;
       (B) the strike approval process; and
       (C) training of personnel, including by implementing the 
     recommendations of the Joint Incident Assessment Team.
       (4) Progress made to support implementation of the 
     provisions of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2216 
     (2015) that call for the observance of applicable 
     international humanitarian and human rights laws and the 
     unimpeded provision of humanitarian assistance to those in 
     need in Yemen.
       (5) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary of State determine to be relevant.
       (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
     Senate.

     SEC. 1266. SUBMITTAL OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPLEMENTAL 
                   AND COST OF WAR EXECUTION REPORTS ON QUARTERLY 
                   BASIS.

       Subsection (c) of section 1221 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(c) Quarterly Submittal to Congress and GAO of Certain 
     Reports on Costs.--Not later than 45 days after the end of 
     each fiscal year quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees and the 
     Comptroller General of the United States the Department of 
     Defense Supplemental and Cost of War Execution report for 
     such fiscal year quarter.''.

     SEC. 1267. CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTS ON UNITED STATES ARMED 
                   FORCES, CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES, AND CONTRACTORS 
                   DEPLOYED IN SUPPORT OF OPERATION INHERENT 
                   RESOLVE, OPERATION FREEDOM'S SENTINEL, AND 
                   ASSOCIATED AND SUCCESSOR OPERATIONS.

       (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 30 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days 
     thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on United States 
     Armed Forces, Department of Defense civilian employees, and 
     Department of Defense contractor employees deployed in 
     support of the following:
       (1) Operation Inherent Resolve.
       (2) Operation Freedom's Sentinel.
       (3) Any operation associated with, or successor to, an 
     operation referred to in paragraph (1) or (2).
       (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) The number of members of the United States Armed 
     Forces, set forth by Armed Force and component (whether 
     regular, National Guard, or Reserve), Department of Defense 
     civilian employees, and Department of Defense contractor 
     employees deployed in support of the operations covered by 
     subsection (a) for the most recent month for which data is 
     available, and a description of the functions performed by 
     such deployed personnel.
       (2) An estimate for the 3-month period following the date 
     on which the report is submitted of the total number of 
     members of the United States Armed Forces, set forth by Armed 
     Force and component (whether regular, National Guard, or 
     Reserve), Department civilian employees, and Department 
     contractor employees to be deployed in support of the 
     operations covered by subsection (a), and a description of 
     the functions to be performed by such deployed personnel 
     during such period.
       (3) A description of any limitations on the number of 
     United States Armed Forces, Department civilian employees, 
     and Department contractor employees deployed in support of 
     the operations covered by subsection (a).
       (4) A description of military functions that are and are 
     not subject to the limitations described in paragraph (3).
       (5) The number of members of the United States Armed 
     Forces, set forth by Armed Force and component (whether 
     regular, National Guard, or Reserve), Department civilian 
     employees, and Department contractor employees deployed in 
     support of the operations covered by subsection (a) that are 
     not subject to the limitations described in paragraph (3) for 
     the most recent month for which data is available.
       (6) Any changes to the limitations described in paragraph 
     (3), and the rationale for such changes.
       (7) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (c) Manner of Presentation.--Each report under subsection 
     (a) shall set forth each element specified in subsection 
     (b)--
       (1) with respect to each operation covered by subsection 
     (a); and
       (2) with respect to each country in which each such 
     operation is being conducted.
       (d) Form.--If any report under subsection (a) is submitted 
     in classified form, such report shall be accompanied by an 
     unclassified summary that includes, at a minimum, the 
     information required by subsection (b)(1).
       (e) Sunset.--The requirement to submit reports under this 
     section shall terminate on the earlier of--
       (1) the date on which all operations covered by subsection 
     (a) have terminated; or
       (2) the date that is five years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (f) Repeal of Superseded Provision.--Section 1224 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1053) is repealed.

     SEC. 1268. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON 
                   PRICING AND AVAILABILITY WITH RESPECT TO 
                   FOREIGN MILITARY SALES.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of 
     the United States shall submit to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress a report on pricing and availability with respect 
     to foreign military sales. The report shall include the 
     following:
       (1) An assessment of the purpose and role of pricing and 
     availability within the foreign military sales process.
       (2) An assessment of the guidance provided by the 
     Department of Defense for the preparation of pricing and 
     availability data for foreign military sales.
       (3) An assessment of the assumptions, estimations, and 
     sources of data used by the Department in the preparation of 
     pricing and availability data for foreign military sales.
       (4) An assessment of the degree of accuracy and 
     transparency provided by the Department in preparing pricing 
     and availability data during the foreign military sales 
     process.
       (5) An assessment of the factors that may account for 
     discrepancies between prices of major items or services 
     offered by the Department in pricing and availability data 
     provided to foreign governments for foreign military sales 
     and prices offered by relevant United States commercial 
     entities for similar items or services, including--
       (A) a description of the magnitude of the extent of 
     differences in such prices; and
       (B) a description of common discrepancies that account for 
     such differences, including Department administrative fees, 
     cost for training and spares, and other factors, including 
     recurring factors.
       (6) An assessment of the extent to which the Department has 
     identified instances where discrepancies in pricing for major 
     items or services resulted in the loss of a foreign military 
     sale for a United States commercial entity.
       (7) Any other matters the Comptroller General considers 
     appropriate.
       (b) Briefings.--The Comptroller General shall provide 
     periodic briefings to the appropriate committees of Congress 
     on any preliminary findings and recommendations of the 
     Comptroller General as a result of work in furtherance of the 
     report required by subsection (a).
       (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee of 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1269. ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY 
                   DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       Section 1245(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3566), as most recently 
     amended by section 1235(a) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2490), is further amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (14) through (20) as 
     paragraphs (16) through (22), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new 
     paragraphs:
       ``(14) An assessment of Russia's hybrid warfare strategy 
     and capabilities, including--
       ``(A) Russia's information warfare strategy and 
     capabilities, including the use of misinformation, 
     disinformation, and propaganda in social and traditional 
     media;
       ``(B) Russia's financing of political parties, think tanks, 
     media organizations, and academic institutions;
       ``(C) Russia's malicious cyber activities;
       ``(D) Russia's use of coercive economic tools, including 
     sanctions, market access, and differential pricing, 
     especially in energy exports; and
       ``(E) Russia's use of criminal networks and corruption to 
     achieve political objectives.
       ``(15) An assessment of attempts by Russia, or any foreign 
     person acting as an agent of or on behalf of Russia, during 
     the preceding year to knowingly disseminate Russian-supported 
     disinformation or propaganda, through social

[[Page H8816]]

     media applications or related Internet-based means, to 
     members of the Armed Forces with probable intent to cause 
     injury to the United States or advantage the Government of 
     the Russian Federation.''.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

     SEC. 1271. SECURITY AND STABILITY STRATEGY FOR SOMALIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a 
     comprehensive United States strategy to achieve long-term 
     security and stability in Somalia and includes each of the 
     following elements:
       (1) A description of United States strategic objectives in 
     Somalia and the benchmarks for assessing progress toward such 
     objectives.
       (2) An assessment of the threats posed to Somalia, the 
     broader region, the United States, and partners of the United 
     States, by al-Shabaab and organizations affiliated with the 
     Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Somalia, including the 
     origins, strategic aims, tactical methods, funding sources, 
     and leadership of each organization.
       (3) A description of the key international and United 
     States governance, diplomatic, development, military, and 
     intelligence resources available to address instability in 
     Somalia.
       (4) A plan to improve coordination among, and effectiveness 
     of, United States governance, diplomatic, development, 
     military, and intelligence resources to counter the threat of 
     al-Shabaab and organizations affiliated with the Islamic 
     State of Iraq and Syria in Somalia.
       (5) A description of the role the United States is playing 
     or will play to address political instability and support 
     long-term security and stability in Somalia.
       (6) A description of the contributions made by the African 
     Union Mission in Somalia (in this section referred to as 
     ``AMISOM'') to security in Somalia and an assessment of the 
     anticipated duration of support provided to AMISOM by troop 
     contributing countries.
       (7) A plan to train the Somali National Army and other 
     Somali security forces, that also includes--
       (A) a description of the assistance provided by other 
     countries for such training; and
       (B) a description of the efforts to integrate regional 
     militias into the uniformed Somali security forces; and
       (C) a description of the security assistance authorities 
     under which any such training would be provided by the United 
     States and the recommendations of the Secretary to address 
     any gaps under such authorities to advise, assist, or 
     accompany the Somali National Army or other Somali security 
     forces within appropriate roles and responsibilities that are 
     not fulfilled by other countries or by international 
     organizations.
       (8) A description of the steps the United States, AMISOM, 
     and any forces trained by the United States are taking in 
     Somalia to minimize civilian casualties and other harm to 
     civilians.
       (9) Any other matters the President considers appropriate.
       (b) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.

     SEC. 1272. GLOBAL THEATER SECURITY COOPERATION MANAGEMENT 
                   INFORMATION SYSTEM.

       (a) Update of Guidance.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
       (A) update relevant security cooperation guidance issued by 
     the Secretary for use of the Global Theater Security 
     Cooperation Management Information System (in this section 
     referred to as ``G-TSCMIS''), including guidance relating to 
     the matters described in paragraph (3); and
       (B) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     that contains such guidance.
       (2) Successor system.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the adoption of any security cooperation information 
     system that is a successor to G-TSCMIS, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall--
       (A) update relevant security cooperation guidance issued by 
     the Secretary for use of such system, including guidance 
     relating to the matters described in paragraph (3); and
       (B) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     that contains such guidance.
       (3) Matters described.--The matters described in this 
     paragraph are the following:
       (A) Designation of an authoritative data repository for 
     security cooperation information, with enforceable data 
     standards and data controls.
       (B) Responsibilities for entry of data relating to programs 
     and activities into the system.
       (C) Oversight and accountability measures to ensure the 
     full scope of activities are entered into the system 
     consistently and in a timely manner.
       (D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (b) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the adoption 
     of any security cooperation information system that is the 
     successor to G-TSCMIS, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report setting 
     forth a review of measures for evaluating the system in order 
     to comply with guidance required by subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--The review required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) An evaluation of the impacts of inconsistent 
     information on the system's functionality as a tool for 
     planning, resource allocation, and adjustment.
       (B) An evaluation of the effectiveness of oversight and 
     accountability measures.
       (C) An evaluation of feedback from the operational 
     community to inform future requirements.
       (D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1273. FUTURE YEARS PLAN FOR THE EUROPEAN DETERRENCE 
                   INITIATIVE.

       (a) Plan Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Commander of the United States European 
     Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a future years plan on activities and resources of the 
     European Deterrence Initiative (in this section referred to 
     as the ``EDI'').
       (2) Applicability.--The plan shall apply with respect to 
     fiscal year 2018 and at least the four succeeding fiscal 
     years.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The plan required under 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A description of the objectives of the EDI.
       (2) An assessment of resource requirements to achieve the 
     objectives of the EDI.
       (3) An assessment of capabilities requirements to achieve 
     the objectives of the EDI.
       (4) An assessment of logistics requirements, including 
     force enablers, equipment, supplies, storage, and maintenance 
     requirements, to achieve the objectives of the EDI.
       (5) An identification and assessment of required 
     infrastructure investments to achieve the objectives of the 
     EDI, including potential infrastructure investments by host 
     nations and new construction or modernization of existing 
     sites that would be funded by the United States.
       (6) An assessment of security cooperation investments 
     required to achieve the objectives of the EDI.
       (7) An analysis of the challenges to the ability of the 
     United States to deploy significant forces from the 
     continental United States to the European theater in the 
     event of a major contingency, and a description of the plans 
     of the Department of Defense, including military exercises, 
     to address such challenges.
       (8) A plan to fully resource United States force posture 
     and capabilities, including--
       (A) details regarding the strategy to balance the force 
     structure of the United States forces to source additional 
     permanently stationed United States forces in Europe as a 
     part of any planned growth in end strength and force posture;
       (B) the infrastructure capacity of existing locations and 
     their ability to accommodate additional permanently stationed 
     United States forces in Europe;
       (C) the potential new locations for additional permanently 
     stationed United States forces in Europe, including an 
     assessment of infrastructure and military construction 
     resources necessary to accommodate additional United States 
     forces in Europe;
       (D) a detailed timeline to achieve desired permanent 
     posture requirements;
       (E) a reevaluation of sites identified for divestiture but 
     not yet divested under the European Infrastructure 
     Consolidation initiative, accounting for updated military 
     requirements; and
       (F) any changes and associated costs incurred with 
     retaining each site identified for divestiture but not yet 
     divested under the European Infrastructure Consolidation 
     initiative, including possible leasing agreements, 
     sustainment, and maintenance.
       (c) Form.--The plan required under subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Limitations.--
       (1) General limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
     take any action to divest any site identified for divestiture 
     but not yet divested under the European Infrastructure 
     Consolidation initiative until the Secretary submits to the 
     congressional defense committees the plan required under 
     subsection (a).
       (2) Site-specific limitation.--In the case of a proposed 
     divestiture of a site under the European Infrastructure 
     Consolidation initiative, the Secretary of Defense may not 
     take any action to divest the site unless prior to taking 
     such action, the Secretary certifies to the congressional 
     defense committees that no military requirement for future 
     use of the site is foreseeable.

     SEC. 1274. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENTS 
                   WITH PARTICIPATING COUNTRIES IN THE AMERICAN, 
                   BRITISH, CANADIAN, AND AUSTRALIAN ARMIES' 
                   PROGRAM.

       Section 1274(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2026; 10 
     U.S.C. 2350a note) is amended by striking ``five years'' and 
     inserting ``ten years''.

     SEC. 1275. UNITED STATES MILITARY AND DIPLOMATIC STRATEGY FOR 
                   YEMEN.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
     contains a military and diplomatic strategy for Yemen.
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following elements:
       (1) An explanation of the military and diplomatic strategy 
     for Yemen, including a description of the ends, ways, and 
     means inherent to the strategy.
       (2) An explanation of the legal authorities supporting the 
     strategy.
       (3) A detailed description of the political and security 
     environment in Yemen.

[[Page H8817]]

       (4) A detailed description of the threats posed by Al Qaeda 
     in the Arabian Peninsula and the Islamic State of Iraq and 
     Syria-Yemen Province, including the intent, capabilities, 
     strategic aims, and resources attributable to each 
     organization.
       (5) A detailed description of the threats posed to freedom 
     of navigation through the Bab al Mandab Strait and waters in 
     proximity to Yemen as well as any United States efforts to 
     mitigate those threats.
       (6) A detailed description of the threats posed to the 
     United States and its allies and partners by the 
     proliferation of advanced conventional weapons in Yemen.
       (7) A detailed description of the threats posed to United 
     States interests by state actors in Yemen.
       (8) A discussion of United States objectives regarding 
     long-term stability and counterterrorism in Yemen.
       (9) A plan to integrate the United States diplomatic, 
     development, military, and intelligence resources necessary 
     to implement the strategy.
       (10) A detailed description of the roles of the United 
     States Armed Forces in supporting the strategy.
       (11) Any other matters as the President considers 
     appropriate.
       (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1276. TRANSFER OF EXCESS HIGH MOBILITY MULTIPURPOSE 
                   WHEELED VEHICLES TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

       (a) Requirements in Connection With Transfer.--
       (1) In general.--Before an excess high mobility 
     multipurpose wheeled vehicle (HMMWV) is transferred on a 
     grant or sales basis to a foreign country for the purpose of 
     operation by that country, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     ensure that the vehicle receives the same new, modernized 
     powertrain and a modernized, armored or armor-capable crew 
     compartment restored to like-new condition that the vehicle 
     would receive were the vehicle to be modernized for 
     operational used by the Armed Forces.
       (2) Same new, modernized powertrain.--For purposes of 
     paragraph (1), the term ``same new, modernized powertrain''--
       (A) means a fully-functioning new powertrain system; but
       (B) does not mean an individual part, component, 
     subassembly, assembly, or subsystem integral to the 
     functioning of the powertrain system such as a new engine or 
     transmission.
       (3) Performance of work.--Any work performed pursuant to 
     paragraph (1) shall be performed in the United States, and 
     shall be covered by section 2460(b)(1) of title 10, United 
     States Code.
       (b) Waiver.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the President 
     may waive the requirements of subsection (a)(1) with respect 
     to any particular transfer of high mobility multipurpose 
     wheeled vehicles if the President determines in writing that 
     the waiver is in the national interests of the United States.
       (2) Notice.--If the President makes a written determination 
     under paragraph (1), the vehicles covered by the 
     determination may not be transferred until 30 days after the 
     Secretary of Defense provides notice of the transfer to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress. Each notice on a transfer 
     shall include the following:
       (A) The recipient of the vehicles to be transferred, the 
     intended use of the vehicles, and a description of the 
     national interests of the United States in connection with 
     the transfer.
       (B) An explanation of why it is not in the national 
     interests of the United States to make the transfer in 
     accordance with the requirements of subsection (a)(1).
       (C) The impact of the transfer on the national technology 
     and industrial base and, in articular, on any reduction of 
     the opportunities of entities in the national technology and 
     industrial base to sell new or used high mobility 
     multipurpose wheeled vehicles to the countries to which the 
     proposed transfer of vehicles is to take place.
       (c) Effective Date and Sunset.--
       (1) Effective date.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply to 
     any transfer of excess high mobility multipurpose wheeled 
     vehicles that occurs on or after the date that is 90 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (2) Sunset.--The requirements in subsection (a) shall 
     expire on the date that is three years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (d) Comptroller General of the United States Report.--
       (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress 
     a report on all proposed and completed transfers of excess 
     defense articles that are high mobility multipurpose wheeled 
     vehicles under the authority of section 516 of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j) during fiscal years 
     2012 through 2016.
       (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
     the following:
       (A) An assessment of the timing, rigorousness, and 
     procedures used in the determination of the President that 
     each transfer described in paragraph (1) did not have an 
     adverse impact on the national technology and industrial base 
     and, in particular, that such transfer would not reduce the 
     opportunities of entities in the national technology and 
     industrial base to sell new or used equipment to the 
     countries to which such articles were or were to be 
     transferred in accordance with section 516(b)(1)(E) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
       (B) Any related matters the Comptroller General considers 
     appropriate.
       (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1277. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAM TO PROTECT UNITED 
                   STATES STUDENTS AGAINST FOREIGN AGENTS.

       (a) Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
     implement a program to prepare United States students 
     studying abroad through Department of Defense National 
     Security Education Programs to recognize and protect 
     themselves against recruitment efforts by intelligence 
     agents.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a briefing on the program 
     required under subsection (a).

     SEC. 1278. LIMITATION AND EXTENSION OF UNITED STATES-ISRAEL 
                   ANTI-TUNNEL COOPERATION AUTHORITY.

       (a) Limitation and Extension of Authority.--Section 1279 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1079; 22 U.S.C. 8606 note) is 
     amended as follows:
       (1) Limitation with respect to rdt&e activities.--In 
     subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(5) Use of certain amounts for rdt&e activities in the 
     united states.--Of the amount provided by the United States 
     in support under paragraph (1), not less than 50 percent of 
     such amount shall be used for research, development, test, 
     and evaluation activities in the United States in connection 
     with such support.''.
       (2) Extension of authority.--In subsection (f), by striking 
     ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
       (b) Repeal of Superseded Limitation.--Section 1295 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2562) is amended by striking 
     subsection (c).

     SEC. 1279. ANTICORRUPTION STRATEGY.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, the 
     Secretary of Defense, and the Administrator of the United 
     States Agency for International Development shall jointly 
     develop a strategy to prevent corruption in any 
     reconstruction efforts associated with United States 
     contingency operations and submit such strategy to the 
     appropriate congressional committees.
       (b) Benchmarks.--The strategy described in subsection (a) 
     shall include measurable benchmarks to be met as a condition 
     for disbursement of funds for reconstruction efforts.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1279A. STRATEGY TO IMPROVE DEFENSE INSTITUTIONS AND 
                   SECURITY SECTOR FORCES IN NIGERIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a 
     comprehensive strategy to support improvements in defense 
     institutions and security sector forces in Nigeria.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) An assessment of the threats posed by terrorist and 
     other militant groups operating in Nigeria, including Boko 
     Haram, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria - West Africa 
     (ISIS-WA), and Niger Delta militants, as well as a 
     description of the origins, strategic aims, tactical methods, 
     funding sources, and leadership structures of each such 
     organization.
       (2) An assessment of efforts by the Government of Nigeria 
     to improve civilian protection, accountability for human 
     rights violations, and transparency in the defense 
     institutions and security sector forces.
       (3) A description of the key international and United 
     States diplomatic, development, intelligence, military, and 
     economic resources available to address instability across 
     Nigeria, and a plan to maximize the coordination and 
     effectiveness of these resources to counter the threats posed 
     by Boko Haram, ISIS-WA, and Niger Delta militants.
       (4) An assessment of efforts undertaken by the security 
     forces of the Government of Nigeria to improve the protection 
     of civilians.
       (5) An assessment of the effectiveness of the Civilian 
     Joint Task Force that has been operating in parts of 
     northeastern Nigeria, as well as any lessons learned from 
     such operations and a plan to work with the Government of 
     Nigeria to address allegations of participation of child 
     soldiers in the Civilian Joint Task Force.
       (6) A plan for the United States to work with the Nigerian 
     security forces and judiciary to transparently investigate 
     allegations of human rights violations committed by the 
     security

[[Page H8818]]

     forces of the Government of Nigeria that have involved 
     civilian casualties.
       (7) A plan for the United States to work with the Nigerian 
     defense institutions and security sector forces to improve 
     detainee conditions.
       (8) Any other matters the President considers appropriate.
       (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1279B. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO IMPLEMENT 
                   THE ARMS TRADE TREATY.

       (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense may be 
     obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty, or 
     to make any change to existing programs, projects, or 
     activities as approved by Congress in furtherance of, 
     pursuant to, or otherwise to implement such Treaty, unless 
     the Treaty has received the advice and consent of the Senate 
     and has been the subject of implementing legislation, as 
     required, by Congress..
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to preclude the Department of Defense from 
     assisting foreign countries in bringing their laws and 
     regulations up to United States standards.

     SEC. 1279C. CULTURAL HERITAGE PROTECTION COORDINATOR.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate an 
     employee of the Department of Defense to serve concurrently 
     as the Coordinator for Cultural Heritage Protection, who 
     shall be responsible for--
       (1) coordinating the existing obligations of the Department 
     of Defense for the protection of cultural heritage, including 
     the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural 
     Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, and other 
     obligations for the protection of cultural heritage; and
       (2) coordinating with the Cultural Heritage Coordinating 
     Committee convened by the Secretary of State for the national 
     security interests of the United States, as appropriate.

     SEC. 1279D. SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR BALTIC NATIONS FOR JOINT 
                   PROGRAM FOR INTEROPERABILITY AND DETERRENCE 
                   AGAINST AGGRESSION.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of State, conduct or support a 
     single joint program of the Baltic nations to improve their 
     interoperability and build their capacity to deter and resist 
     aggression by the Russian Federation.
       (b) Joint Program.--For purposes of subsection (a), a joint 
     program of the Baltic nations may be either of the following:
       (1) A program jointly agreed by the Baltic nations to 
     procure defense articles and services described in subsection 
     (c) using assistance provided pursuant to subsection (a).
       (2) An agreement for the joint procurement by the Baltic 
     nations of defense articles and services described in 
     subsection (c) using assistance provided pursuant to 
     subsection (a).
       (c) Defense Articles and Services.--For purposes of 
     subsection (b), the defense articles and services described 
     in this subsection include the following:
       (1) Real time or near-real time actionable intelligence, 
     including by lease of such capabilities from United States 
     commercial entities.
       (2) Unmanned aerial tactical surveillance systems.
       (3) Lethal assistance, such as anti-armor weapon systems, 
     mortars, crew-served weapons and ammunition, grenade 
     launchers and ammunition, and small arms and ammunition.
       (4) Air defense radars and anti-aircraft weapons.
       (5) Other defense articles or services agreed to by the 
     Baltic nations and considered appropriate by the Secretary of 
     Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
       (d) Participation of Other Countries.--Any country other 
     than a Baltic nation may participate in the joint program 
     described in subsection (a), but only using funds of such 
     country.
       (e) Notice and Wait on Activities.--Not later than 60 days 
     before initiating activities under the joint program under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress a written and electronic 
     notice of the following:
       (1) The countries that will participate in the joint 
     program.
       (2) A detailed assessment of how the joint program will 
     improve the interoperability of the Baltic nations and build 
     their capacity to deter and resist aggression by the Russian 
     Federation.
       (3) A description of the elements of the United States 
     European Command theater security cooperation plan, and of 
     the interagency integrated country strategy in each Baltic 
     nation, that will be advanced by the joint program.
       (4) A detailed evaluation of the capacity of the Baltic 
     nations to absorb the defense articles and services to be 
     procured under the joint program.
       (5) The cost and delivery schedule of the joint program.
       (6) A description of the arrangements, if any, for the 
     sustainment of the defense articles and services to be 
     procured under the joint program, and the estimated cost and 
     source of funds to support sustainment of the capabilities 
     and performance outcomes achieved under the joint program 
     beyond its completion date, if applicable.
       (f) Funding.--
       (1) In general.--Amounts for assistance provided pursuant 
     to subsection (a) shall be derived from amounts authorized to 
     be appropriated for the Department of Defense for operation 
     and maintenance, Defense-wide.
       (2) Limitation.--The total amount of assistance provided 
     pursuant to subsection (a) may not exceed $100,000,000.
       (g) Termination.--Assistance may not be provided pursuant 
     to subsection (a) after December 31, 2020.
       (h) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives.
       (2) The term ``Baltic nations'' means the following:
       (A) Estonia.
       (B) Latvia.
       (C) Lithuania.

     SEC. 1279E. RESTRICTION ON FUNDING FOR THE PREPARATORY 
                   COMMISSION FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE NUCLEAR-TEST-
                   BAN TREATY ORGANIZATION.

       (a) Statement of Policy.--Congress declares that United 
     Nations Security Council Resolution 2310 (September 23, 2016) 
     does not obligate the United States nor does it impose an 
     obligation on the United States to refrain from actions that 
     would run counter to the object and purpose of the 
     Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
       (b) Restriction on Funding.--
       (1) In general.--No United States funds may be made 
     available to the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive 
     Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization.
       (2) Exception.--The restriction under paragraph (1) shall 
     not apply with respect to the availability of--
       (A) United States funds for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
     Ban Treaty Organization's International Monitoring System; or
       (B) United States funds used solely for analysis and 
     dissemination of data collected under the International 
     Monitoring System.

     SEC. 1279F. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT BORDER 
                   SECURITY OPERATIONS OF CERTAIN FOREIGN 
                   COUNTRIES.

       Paragraph (3) of section 1226(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 1056), as added by section 1294(b)(2) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2562), is amended by striking 
     ``for such fiscal year'' both places it appears.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.

     SEC. 1301. SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION 
                   FUNDS.

       (a) Fiscal Year 2018 Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds 
     Defined.--In this title, the term ``fiscal year 2018 
     Cooperative Threat Reduction funds'' means the funds 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 301 and made available by the funding table in 
     section 4301 for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat 
     Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the 
     Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 
     U.S.C. 3711).
       (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to 
     the authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made 
     available by the funding table in section 4301 for the 
     Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program 
     shall be available for obligation for fiscal years 2018, 
     2019, and 2020.

     SEC. 1302. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.

       (a) In General.--Of the $324,600,000 authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
     2018 in section 301 and made available by the funding table 
     in division D for the Department of Defense Cooperative 
     Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321 of 
     the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may be obligated for 
     the purposes specified:
       (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $12,100,000.
       (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $5,000,000.
       (3) For global nuclear security, $17,900,000.
       (4) For cooperative biological engagement, $172,800,000.
       (5) For proliferation prevention, $89,800,000.
       (6) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
     Administrative Costs, $27,000,000.
       (b) Modification to Certain Requirements.--The Department 
     of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3701 
     et seq.) is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 1321(g)(1) (50 U.S.C. 3711(g)(1)) is amended by 
     striking ``45 days'' and inserting ``15 days''.
       (2) Section 1324 (50 U.S.C. 3714) is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by striking ``45 days'' and 
     inserting ``15 days''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``45 days'' and 
     inserting ``15 days''.
       (3) Section 1335(a) (50 U.S.C. 3735(a)) is amended by 
     striking ``or expended''.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.

[[Page H8819]]

Sec. 1402. Chemical agents and munitions destruction, defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug interdiction and counter-drug activities defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
Sec. 1406. National Defense Sealift Fund.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1411. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
              Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
              Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health 
              Care Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1412. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
              Home.
Sec. 1413. Armed Forces Retirement Home matters.
Sec. 1414. Authority to dispose of certain materials from and to 
              acquire additional materials for the National Defense 
              Stockpile.
Sec. 1415. Acquisition reporting on major chemical demilitarization 
              programs of the Department of Defense.

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

     SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4501.

     SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense 
     for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
     for, for Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense, 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
       (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under 
     subsection (a) are authorized for--
       (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
     in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
     Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
       (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the 
     United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such 
     Act.

     SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES 
                   DEFENSE-WIDE.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-
     Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4501.

     SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector 
     General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4501.

     SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces 
     and other activities and agencies of the Department of 
     Defense in providing for the health of eligible 
     beneficiaries.

     SEC. 1406. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the National Defense Sealift Fund, as specified 
     in the funding table in section 4501.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

     SEC. 1411. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
                   AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR 
                   CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH CARE CENTER, 
                   ILLINOIS.

       (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by section 1405 and available 
     for the Defense Health Program for operation and maintenance, 
     $115,500,000 may be transferred by the Secretary of Defense 
     to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund established by 
     subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
     123 Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such 
     section 1704, any funds so transferred shall be treated as 
     amounts authorized and appropriated specifically for the 
     purpose of such a transfer.
       (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of 
     subsection (b) of such section 1704, facility operations for 
     which funds transferred under subsection (a) may be used are 
     operations of the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care 
     Center, consisting of the North Chicago Veterans Affairs 
     Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
     supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal 
     medical facility under an operational agreement covered by 
     section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 
     122 Stat. 4500).

     SEC. 1412. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES 
                   RETIREMENT HOME.

       There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund 
     the sum of $64,300,000 for the operation of the Armed Forces 
     Retirement Home.

     SEC. 1413. ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME MATTERS.

       (a) Termination of Oversight Responsibilities of Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.--
       (1) Senior medical advisor.--Section 1513A of the Armed 
     Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 413a) is 
     amended--
       (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Personnel and Readiness,'' in the matter 
     preceding paragraph (1); and
       (B) in subsection (c)(4), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
     of Defense for Personnel and Readiness'' and inserting ``the 
     Secretary of Defense''.
       (2) Ombudsmen.--Section 1517(e)(2) of such Act (24 U.S.C. 
     417(e)(2)) is amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Personnel and Readiness'' and inserting ``the 
     Secretary of Defense''.
       (3) Inspections.--Section 1518 of such Act (24 U.S.C. 418) 
     is amended--
       (A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
     of Defense for Personnel and Readiness,''; and
       (B) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``the Under Secretary 
     of Defense for Personnel and Readiness'' and inserting ``the 
     Secretary of Defense''.
       (b) Advisory Council.--Section 1516 of such Act (24 U.S.C. 
     416) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``15 members,'' and 
     all that follows and inserting ``15 members.''; and
       (2) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``shall'' and 
     inserting ``may''.
       (c) Administrators.--Section 1517(b) of such Act (24 U.S.C. 
     417(b)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) serve at the pleasure of the Secretary of Defense.''.

     SEC. 1414. AUTHORITY TO DISPOSE OF CERTAIN MATERIALS FROM AND 
                   TO ACQUIRE ADDITIONAL MATERIALS FOR THE 
                   NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE.

       (a) Disposal Authority.--Pursuant to section 5(b) of the 
     Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 
     98d(b)), the National Defense Stockpile Manager may dispose 
     of not more than 25 short tons of materials transferred from 
     another department or agency of the United States to the 
     National Defense Stockpile under section 4(b) of such Act (50 
     U.S.C. 98c(b)) that the National Defense Stockpile Manager 
     determines is no longer required from the stockpile.
       (b) Acquisition Authority.--
       (1) Authority.--Using funds available in the National 
     Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund, the National Defense 
     Stockpile Manager may acquire the following materials 
     determined to be strategic and critical materials required to 
     meet the defense, industrial, and essential civilian needs of 
     the United States:
       (A) Electrolytic manganese metal.
       (B) Antimony.
       (2) Amount of authority.--The National Defense Stockpile 
     Manager may use up to $9,000,000 in the National Defense 
     Stockpile Transaction Fund for acquisition of the materials 
     specified in paragraph (1).
       (3) Fiscal year limitation.--The authority under paragraph 
     (1) is available for purchases during fiscal year 2018 
     through fiscal year 2027.

     SEC. 1415. ACQUISITION REPORTING ON MAJOR CHEMICAL 
                   DEMILITARIZATION PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Reporting on Major Programs.--Acquisition reporting on 
     each major program within the chemical demilitarization 
     programs of the Department of Defense, including construction 
     in connection with such program, shall--
       (1) comply with reporting guidelines for an Acquisition 
     Category 1 (ACAT 1) system; and
       (2) be reported separately from acquisition reporting on 
     the other major program within the chemical demilitarization 
     programs of the Department of Defense.
       (b) Major Program Within the Chemical Demilitarization 
     Programs of the Department of Defense Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``major program within the chemical 
     demilitarization programs of the Department of Defense'' 
     means each program as follows:
       (1) Pueblo Chemical Agent Destruction Pilot Plant program, 
     Colorado.
       (2) Blue Grass Chemical Agent Destruction Pilot Plant 
     program, Kentucky.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose and treatment of certain authorizations of 
              appropriations.
Sec. 1502. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1503. Procurement.
Sec. 1504. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1505. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1506. Military personnel.
Sec. 1507. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1508. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1509. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health program.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1511. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1512. Special transfer authority.

          Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1521. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1522. Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund.

[[Page H8820]]

Sec. 1523. Comptroller General report on feasibility of separation of 
              expenditures.
Sec. 1524. Guidelines for budget items to be covered by overseas 
              contingency operations accounts.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

     SEC. 1501. PURPOSE AND TREATMENT OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZATIONS OF 
                   APPROPRIATIONS.

       The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize appropriations 
     for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 to provide 
     additional funds for overseas contingency operations being 
     carried out by the Armed Forces.

     SEC. 1502. OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the Department of Defense for overseas 
     contingency operations in such amounts as may be designated 
     as provided in section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
     Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

     SEC. 1503. PROCUREMENT.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and 
     the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4102.

     SEC. 1504. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Department of Defense for 
     research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in 
     the funding table in section 4202.

     SEC. 1505. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and 
     maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
     4302.

     SEC. 1506. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4402.

     SEC. 1507. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4502.

     SEC. 1508. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, 
                   DEFENSE-WIDE.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-
     Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4502.

     SEC. 1509. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector 
     General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4502.

     SEC. 1510. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for the Defense Health Program, as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4502.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

     SEC. 1511. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.

       The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are 
     in addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act.

     SEC. 1512. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

       (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
       (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
     Defense that such action is necessary in the national 
     interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of 
     authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in 
     this title for fiscal year 2018 between any such 
     authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions 
     thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be 
     merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
     authorization to which transferred.
       (2) Limitation.--The total amount of authorizations that 
     the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this 
     subsection may not exceed $2,500,000,000.
       (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section 
     shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as 
     transfers under section 1001.
       (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided 
     by this section is in addition to the transfer authority 
     provided under section 1001.

          Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

     SEC. 1521. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.

       (a) Continuation of Prior Authorities and Notice and 
     Reporting Requirements.--Funds available to the Department of 
     Defense for the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal 
     year 2018 shall be subject to the conditions contained in 
     subsections (b) through (g) of section 1513 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
     110-181; 122 Stat. 428), as amended by section 1531(b) of the 
     Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4424).
       (b) Equipment Disposition.--
       (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph 
     (2), the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is 
     procured using amounts in the Afghanistan Security Forces 
     Fund authorized under this Act and is intended for transfer 
     to the security forces of Afghanistan, but is not accepted by 
     such security forces.
       (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before 
     accepting any equipment under the authority provided by 
     paragraph (1), the Commander of United States forces in 
     Afghanistan shall make a determination that the equipment was 
     procured for the purpose of meeting requirements of the 
     security forces of Afghanistan, as agreed to by both the 
     Government of Afghanistan and the United States, but is no 
     longer required by such security forces or was damaged before 
     transfer to such security forces.
       (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination 
     under paragraph (2) regarding equipment, the Commander of 
     United States forces in Afghanistan shall consider 
     alternatives to Secretary of Defense acceptance of the 
     equipment. An explanation of each determination, including 
     the basis for the determination and the alternatives 
     considered, shall be included in the relevant quarterly 
     report required under paragraph (5).
       (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
     accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
     treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon 
     notification to the congressional defense committees of such 
     treatment.
       (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act and every 90-day period thereafter 
     during which the authority provided by paragraph (1) is 
     exercised, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report describing the 
     equipment accepted during the period covered by such report 
     under the following:
       (i) This subsection.
       (ii) Section 1521(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2575).
       (iii) Section 1531(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1088).
       (iv) Section 1532(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
     ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3613).
       (v) Section 1531(d) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 938; 
     10 U.S.C. 2302 note).
       (B) Elements.--Each report under subparagraph (A) shall 
     include a list of all equipment that was accepted during the 
     period covered by the report and treated as stocks of the 
     Department of Defense and copies of the determinations made 
     under paragraph (2), as required by paragraph (3).
       (c) Security of Afghan Women.--
       (1) In general.--Of the funds available to the Department 
     of Defense for the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for 
     fiscal year 2018, it is the goal that $41,000,000, but in no 
     event less than $10,000,000, shall be used for--
       (A) the recruitment, integration, retention, training, and 
     treatment of women in the Afghan National Defense and 
     Security Forces; and
       (B) the recruitment, training, and contracting of female 
     security personnel for future elections.
       (2) Types of programs and activities.--Such programs and 
     activities may include--
       (A) efforts to recruit women into the Afghan National 
     Defense and Security Forces, including the special operations 
     forces;
       (B) programs and activities of the Afghan Ministry of 
     Defense Directorate of Human Rights and Gender Integration 
     and the Afghan Ministry of Interior Office of Human Rights, 
     Gender and Child Rights;
       (C) development and dissemination of gender and human 
     rights educational and training materials and programs within 
     the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the Afghan Ministry of 
     Interior;
       (D) efforts to address harassment and violence against 
     women within the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces;
       (E) improvements to infrastructure that address the 
     requirements of women serving in the Afghan National Defense 
     and Security Forces, including appropriate equipment for 
     female security and police forces, and transportation for 
     policewomen to their station;
       (F) support for Afghanistan National Police Family Response 
     Units; and
       (G) security provisions for high-profile female police and 
     army officers.
       (d) Assessment of Afghanistan Progress on Security 
     Objectives.--
       (1) Assessment required.--Not later than June 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State, submit to the Committee on Armed Services 
     and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services and the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate an assessment 
     describing the progress of the Government of the Islamic 
     Republic of Afghanistan toward meeting shared security 
     objectives. In conducting such assessment, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall consider each of the following:
       (A) The extent to which the Government of Afghanistan has 
     taken steps toward increased accountability and reducing 
     corruption within the Ministries of Defense and Interior.
       (B) The extent to which the capability and capacity of the 
     Afghan National Defense and Security Forces have improved as 
     a result of Afghanistan Security Forces Fund investment, 
     including through training.
       (C) The extent to which the Afghan National Defense and 
     Security Forces have been able to increase pressure on the 
     Taliban, al-Qaeda, the Haqqani network, and other terrorist 
     organizations, including by re-taking territory, defending 
     territory, and disrupting attacks.

[[Page H8821]]

       (D) Whether or not the Government of Afghanistan is 
     ensuring that supplies, equipment, and weaponry supplied by 
     the United States are appropriately distributed to security 
     forces charged with fighting the Taliban and other terrorist 
     organizations.
       (E) Such other factors as the Secretaries consider 
     appropriate.
       (2) Withholding of assistance for insufficient progress.--
       (A) In general.--If the Secretary of Defense determines, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State, pursuant to the 
     assessment under paragraph (1) that the Government of 
     Afghanistan has made insufficient progress, the Secretary of 
     Defense may withhold assistance for the Afghan National 
     Defense and Security Forces until such time as the Secretary 
     determines sufficient progress has been made.
       (B) Notice to congress.--If the Secretary of Defense 
     withholds assistance under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
     shall, in coordination with the Secretary of State, provide 
     notice to Congress not later than 30 days after making the 
     decision to withhold such assistance.
       (e) Inspector General Oversight of Fund.--
       (1) Quality standards for ig products.--Except as provided 
     in paragraph (3), each product published or issued by an 
     Inspector General relating to the oversight of programs and 
     activities funded under the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund 
     shall be prepared--
       (A) in accordance with the Generally Accepted Government 
     Auditing Standards/Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS/GAS), 
     as issued and updated by the Government Accountability 
     Office; or
       (B) if not prepared in accordance with the standards 
     referred to in subparagraph (A), in accordance with the 
     Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation issued by the 
     Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency 
     (commonly referred to as the ``CIGIE Blue Book'').
       (2) Specification of quality standards followed.--Each 
     product published or issued by an Inspector General relating 
     to the oversight of programs and activities funded under the 
     Afghanistan Security Forces Fund shall cite within such 
     product the quality standards followed in conducting and 
     reporting the work concerned.
       (3) Waiver.--The Lead Inspector General for Operation 
     Freedom's Sentinel may waive the applicability of paragraph 
     (1) to a specific product relating to the oversight by an 
     Inspector General of activities and programs funded under the 
     Afghanistan Security Forces Fund if the Lead Inspector 
     General determines that the waiver would facilitate timely 
     efforts to promote efficiency and effectiveness and prevent, 
     detect, and deter fraud, waste, and abuse. Any product 
     published or issued pursuant to a waiver under this paragraph 
     shall include a statement that work for such product was not 
     conducted in accordance with the standards referred to in 
     paragraph (1) and an explanation why such standards were not 
     employed.

     SEC. 1522. JOINT IMPROVISED-THREAT DEFEAT FUND.

       (a) Use and Transfer of Funds.--Subsections (b) and (c) of 
     section 1514 of the John Warner National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 
     120 Stat. 2439), as in effect before the amendments made by 
     section 1503 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 
     122 Stat. 4649), shall apply to the funds made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 to the Department of Defense for the Joint 
     Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund.
       (b) Interdiction of Improvised Explosive Device Precursor 
     Chemicals.--
       (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds made available to 
     the Department of Defense for the Joint Improvised-Threat 
     Defeat Fund for fiscal year 2018, $15,000,000 may be 
     available to the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence 
     of the Secretary of State, to provide training, equipment, 
     supplies, and services to ministries and other entities of 
     foreign governments that the Secretary has identified as 
     critical for countering the flow of improvised explosive 
     device precursor chemicals.
       (2) Provision through other us agencies.--If jointly agreed 
     upon by the Secretary of Defense and the head of another 
     department or agency of the United States Government, the 
     Secretary of Defense may transfer funds available under 
     paragraph (1) to such department or agency for the provision 
     by such department or agency of training, equipment, 
     supplies, and services to ministries and other entities of 
     foreign governments as described in that paragraph.
       (3) Notice to congress.--None of the funds made available 
     pursuant to paragraph (1) may be obligated or expended to 
     supply training, equipment, supplies, or services to a 
     foreign country before the date that is 15 days after the 
     date on which the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
     the Secretary of State, submits to the Committee on Armed 
     Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
     and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a notice that 
     contains--
       (A) the foreign country for which training, equipment, 
     supplies, or services are proposed to be supplied;
       (B) a description of the training, equipment, supplies, and 
     services to be provided using such funds;
       (C) a detailed description of the amount of funds proposed 
     to be obligated or expended to supply such training, 
     equipment, supplies or services, including any funds proposed 
     to be obligated or expended to support the participation of 
     another department or agency of the United States and a 
     description of the training, equipment, supplies, or services 
     proposed to be supplied;
       (D) an evaluation of the effectiveness of the efforts of 
     the foreign country identified under subparagraph (A) to 
     counter the flow of improvised explosive device precursor 
     chemicals; and
       (E) an overall plan for countering the flow of precursor 
     chemicals in the foreign country identified under 
     subparagraph (A).
       (4) Expiration.--The authority provided by this subsection 
     expires on December 31, 2018.

     SEC. 1523. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON FEASIBILITY OF 
                   SEPARATION OF EXPENDITURES.

       (a) In General.--.Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report assessing the feasibility of separating expenditures 
     of amounts appropriated for overseas contingency operations 
     from expenditures of all other amounts appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense.
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include each of the following:
       (1) A review of the processes the Department of Defense 
     currently employs to separate expenditures of amounts 
     appropriated for overseas contingency operations from 
     expenditures of all other amounts appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense.
       (2) A review of the processes the Department of the 
     Treasury currently employs to separate expenditures of 
     amounts appropriated for overseas contingency operations from 
     expenditures of all other amounts appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense.
       (3) A comparison between each of the processes described in 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) and generally accepted accounting 
     principles.
       (4) A description of the costs and requirements associated 
     with implementing proposed alternatives to the processes 
     described in paragraphs (1) and (2) for more effectively 
     separating expenditures of amounts appropriated for overseas 
     contingency operations from expenditures of all other amounts 
     appropriated for the Department of Defense.
       (5) Any related information the Comptroller General 
     considers appropriate.

     SEC. 1524. GUIDELINES FOR BUDGET ITEMS TO BE COVERED BY 
                   OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS.

       Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
     Director of Management and Budget, shall update the 
     guidelines regarding the budget items that may be covered by 
     overseas contingency operations accounts.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Space acquisition and management and oversight.
Sec. 1602. Codification, extension, and modification of limitation on 
              construction on United States territory of satellite 
              positioning ground monitoring stations of foreign 
              governments.
Sec. 1603. Foreign commercial satellite services: cybersecurity threats 
              and launches.
Sec. 1604. Extension of pilot program on commercial weather data.
Sec. 1605. Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle modernization and 
              sustainment of assured access to space.
Sec. 1606. Demonstration of backup and complementary positioning, 
              navigation, and timing capabilities of Global Positioning 
              System.
Sec. 1607. Enhancement of positioning, navigation, and timing capacity.
Sec. 1608. Commercial satellite communications pathfinder program.
Sec. 1609. Launch support and infrastructure modernization.
Sec. 1610. Limitation on availability of funding for Joint Space 
              Operations Center mission system.
Sec. 1611. Limitation on use of funds for Delta IV launch vehicle.
Sec. 1612. Air Force space contractor responsibility watch list.
Sec. 1613. Certification and briefing on operational and contingency 
              plans for loss or degradation of space capabilities.
Sec. 1614. Report on protected satellite communications.
Sec. 1615. Sense of Congress on establishment of Space Flag training 
              event.
Sec. 1616. Sense of Congress on coordinating efforts to prepare for 
              space weather events.
Sec. 1617. Sense of Congress on National Space Defense Center.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1621. Security clearances for facilities of certain companies.
Sec. 1622. Extension of authority to engage in certain commercial 
              activities.
Sec. 1623. Submission of audits of commercial activity funds.
Sec. 1624. Clarification of annual briefing on the intelligence, 
              surveillance, and reconnaissance requirements of the 
              combatant commands.
Sec. 1625. Consideration of service by recipients of Boren scholarships 
              and fellowships in excepted service positions as service 
              by such recipients under career appointments for purposes 
              of career tenure.
Sec. 1626. Review of support provided by Defense intelligence elements 
              to acquisition activities of the Department.

[[Page H8822]]

Sec. 1627. Establishment of Chairman's controlled activity within Joint 
              Staff for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.
Sec. 1628. Requirements relating to multi-use sensitive compartmented 
              information facilities.
Sec. 1629. Limitation on availability of funds for certain 
              counterintelligence activities.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

                     Part I--General Cyber Matters

Sec. 1631. Notification requirements for sensitive military cyber 
              operations and cyber weapons.
Sec. 1632. Modification to quarterly cyber operations briefings.
Sec. 1633. Policy of the United States on cyberspace, cybersecurity, 
              and cyber warfare.
Sec. 1634. Prohibition on use of products and services developed or 
              provided by Kaspersky Lab.
Sec. 1635. Modification of authorities relating to establishment of 
              unified combatant command for cyber operations.
Sec. 1636. Modification of definition of acquisition workforce to 
              include personnel contributing to cybersecurity systems.
Sec. 1637. Integration of strategic information operations and cyber-
              enabled information operations.
Sec. 1638. Exercise on assessing cybersecurity support to election 
              systems of States.
Sec. 1639. Measurement of compliance with cybersecurity requirements 
              for industrial control systems.
Sec. 1640. Strategic Cybersecurity Program.
Sec. 1641. Plan to increase cyber and information operations, 
              deterrence, and defense.
Sec. 1642. Evaluation of agile or iterative development of cyber tools 
              and applications.
Sec. 1643. Assessment of defense critical electric infrastructure.
Sec. 1644. Cyber posture review.
Sec. 1645. Briefing on cyber capability and readiness shortfalls.
Sec. 1646. Briefing on cyber applications of blockchain technology.
Sec. 1647. Briefing on training infrastructure for cyber mission 
              forces.
Sec. 1648. Report on termination of dual-hat arrangement for Commander 
              of the United States Cyber Command.

                    Part II--Cybersecurity Education

Sec. 1649. Cyber Scholarship Program.
Sec. 1649A. Community college cyber pilot program and assessment.
Sec. 1649B. Federal Cyber Scholarship-for-Service program updates.
Sec. 1649C. Cybersecurity teaching.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1651. Annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear command and 
              control system.
Sec. 1652. Collection, storage, and sharing of data relating to nuclear 
              security enterprise.
Sec. 1653. Notifications regarding dual-capable F-35A aircraft.
Sec. 1654. Oversight of delayed acquisition programs by Council on 
              Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, 
              and Communications System.
Sec. 1655. Establishment of Nuclear Command and Control Intelligence 
              Fusion Center.
Sec. 1656. Security of nuclear command, control, and communications 
              system from commercial dependencies.
Sec. 1657. Oversight of aerial-layer programs by Council on Oversight 
              of the National Leadership Command, Control, and 
              Communications System.
Sec. 1658. Security classification guide for programs relating to 
              nuclear command, control, and communications and nuclear 
              deterrence.
Sec. 1659. Evaluation and enhanced security of supply chain for nuclear 
              command, control, and communications and continuity of 
              government programs.
Sec. 1660. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
              ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1661. Presidential National Voice Conferencing System and Phoenix 
              Air-to-Ground Communications Network.
Sec. 1662. Limitation on pursuit of certain command and control 
              concept.
Sec. 1663. Prohibition on availability of funds for mobile variant of 
              ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
Sec. 1664. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic 
              missiles of the United States.
Sec. 1665. Modification to annual report on plan for the nuclear 
              weapons stockpile, nuclear weapons complex, nuclear 
              weapons delivery systems, and nuclear weapons command and 
              control system.
Sec. 1666. Establishment of procedures for implementation of Nuclear 
              Enterprise Review.
Sec. 1667. Report on impacts of nuclear proliferation.
Sec. 1668. Certification that the Nuclear Posture Review addresses 
              deterrent effect and operation of United States nuclear 
              forces in current and future security environments.
Sec. 1669. Plan to manage Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack 
              Assessment System and multi-domain sensors.
Sec. 1670. Certification requirement with respect to strategic 
              radiation hardened trusted microelectronics.
Sec. 1671. Nuclear Posture Review.
Sec. 1672. Sense of Congress on importance of independent nuclear 
              deterrent of United Kingdom.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1676. Administration of missile defense and defeat programs.
Sec. 1677. Condition for proceeding beyond low-rate initial production.
Sec. 1678. Preservation of the ballistic missile defense capacity of 
              the Army.
Sec. 1679. Modernization of Army lower tier air and missile defense 
              sensor.
Sec. 1680. Defense of Hawaii from North Korean ballistic missile 
              attack.
Sec. 1681. Designation of location of continental United States 
              interceptor site.
Sec. 1682. Aegis Ashore anti-air warfare capability.
Sec. 1683. Development of persistent space-based sensor architecture.
Sec. 1684. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
              Cooperative Missile Defense Program co-development and 
              co-production.
Sec. 1685. Boost phase ballistic missile defense.
Sec. 1686. Ground-based interceptor capability, capacity, and 
              reliability.
Sec. 1687. Limitation on availability of funds for ground-based 
              midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile 
              defense system.
Sec. 1688. Plan for development of space-based ballistic missile 
              intercept layer.
Sec. 1689. Sense of Congress on the state of the missile defense of the 
              United States.
Sec. 1690.  Sense of Congress and report on ground-based midcourse 
              defense testing.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1691. Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States From 
              Electromagnetic Pulse Attacks and Similar Events.
Sec. 1692. Protection of certain facilities and assets from unmanned 
              aircraft.
Sec. 1693. Conventional prompt global strike weapons system.
Sec. 1694. Business case analysis regarding ammonium perchlorate.
Sec. 1695. Report on industrial base for large solid rocket motors and 
              related technologies.
Sec. 1696. Pilot program on enhancing information sharing for security 
              of supply chain.
Sec. 1697. Pilot program on electromagnetic spectrum mapping.
Sec. 1698. Use of commercial items in Distributed Common Ground 
              Systems.

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

     SEC. 1601. SPACE ACQUISITION AND MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT.

       (a) Air Force Space Command.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 135 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 2279c. Air Force Space Command

       ``(a) Commander.--(1) The head of the Air Force Space 
     Command shall be the Commander of the Air Force Space 
     Command, who shall be appointed in accordance with section 
     601 of this title. The officer serving as Commander, while so 
     serving, has the grade of general without vacating the 
     permanent grade of the officer.
       ``(2) The Commander shall be appointed to serve a term of 
     six years. The Secretary may propose to promote the 
     individual serving as the Commander during that term of 
     appointment.
       ``(3) The incumbent Commander may serve as the first 
     Commander after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       ``(b) Authorities.--In addition to the authorities and 
     responsibilities assigned to the Commander before the date of 
     the enactment of this section, the Commander has the sole 
     authority with respect to each of the following:
       ``(1) Organizing, training, and equipping personnel and 
     operations of the space forces of the Air Force.
       ``(2) Subject to the direction of the Secretary of the Air 
     Force, serving as the service acquisition executive under 
     section 1704 of this title for defense space acquisitions.
       ``(3) In consultation with the Chief Information Officer of 
     the Department of Defense, procurement of commercial 
     satellite communications services for the Department of 
     Defense for such services entered into on or after the date 
     that is one year after the date of the enactment of this 
     section.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for such 
     chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
     section 2279b the following new item:

``2279c. Air Force Space Command.''.
       (3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in subsection (b)(1) of 
     section 2279c of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
     paragraph (1), may be construed to prohibit or otherwise 
     affect the authority of the Secretary of the Air Force to 
     provide to the space forces of the Air Force the services of 
     the Department of the Air Force relating to basic personnel 
     functions, the United States Air Force Academy, recruitment, 
     and basic training.
       (b) Termination of Certain Positions and Entities.--
       (1) In general.--Effective 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act--
       (A) the position, and the office of, the Principal 
     Department of Defense Space Advisor (previously known as the 
     Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space) shall be 
     terminated;

[[Page H8823]]

       (B) the duties, responsibilities, and personnel of such 
     office specified in subparagraph (A) shall be transferred to 
     a single official selected by the Deputy Secretary of 
     Defense, without delegation, except the Deputy Secretary may 
     not select the Secretary of the Air Force nor the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Intelligence;
       (C) any reference in Federal law, regulations, guidance, 
     instructions, or other documents of the Federal Government to 
     the Principal Department of Defense Space Advisor or the 
     Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to the official selected by the 
     Deputy Secretary under subparagraph (B);
       (D) the position, and the office of, the Deputy Chief of 
     Staff of the Air Force for Space Operations shall be 
     terminated; and
       (E) the Defense Space Council shall be terminated.
       (2) Principal advisor on space control.--
       (A) Repeal.--Section 2279a of title 10, United States Code, 
     is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     135 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
     section 2279a.
       (b) Redesignation of Operationally Responsive Space Program 
     Office as Space Rapid Capabilities Office; Reporting to Air 
     Force Space Command.--
       (1) In general.--Section 2273a of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (A) in the section heading, by striking ``Operationally 
     Responsive Space Program'' and inserting ``Space Rapid 
     Capabilities'';
       (B) in subsection (a)--
       (i) by striking ``Air Force Space and Missile Systems 
     Center of the Department of Defense'' and inserting ``Air 
     Force Space Command''; and
       (ii) by striking ``Operationally Responsive Space Program'' 
     and inserting ``Space Rapid Capabilities'';
       (C) in subsection (b), by striking ``Air Force Space and 
     Missile Systems Center'' and inserting ``Air Force Space 
     Command'';
       (D) in subsections (c) and (f), by striking ``operationally 
     responsive space'' each place it appears and inserting 
     ``space rapid capabilities'';
       (E) in subsection (d)--
       (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
     ``operationally responsive space'' and inserting ``space 
     rapid capabilities'';
       (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``capabilities for 
     operationally responsive space'' and inserting ``space rapid 
     capabilities'';
       (iii) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by striking 
     ``operationally responsive space'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``space rapid capabilities''; and
       (iv) in paragraph (4), by striking ``operationally 
     responsive space capabilities'' and inserting ``space rapid 
     capabilities''.
       (F) in subsection (g)(1), by striking ``Operationally 
     Responsive Space'' and inserting ``Space Rapid 
     Capabilities''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     135 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
     section 2273a and inserting the following new item:

``2273a. Space Rapid Capabilities Office.''.
       (c) Review of Structure.--
       (1) Review.--The Deputy Secretary of Defense shall conduct 
     a review and identify a recommended organizational and 
     management structure for the national security space 
     components of the Department of Defense, including the Air 
     Force Space Command, that implements the organizational 
     policy guidance expressed in this section and the amendments 
     made by this section.
       (2) Interim report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Deputy Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees an interim report on the review and 
     recommended organizational and management structure for the 
     national security space components of the Department of 
     Defense, including the Air Force Space Command, under 
     paragraph (1).
       (3) Final report.--Not later than August 1, 2018, the 
     Deputy Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a final report on the review and 
     recommended organizational and management structure for the 
     national security space components of the Department of 
     Defense, including the Air Force Space Command, under 
     paragraph (1), including--
       (A) a proposed implementation plan for how the Deputy 
     Secretary would implement the recommendations;
       (B) recommendations for revisions to appointments and 
     qualifications, duties and powers, and precedent in the 
     Department;
       (C) recommendations for such legislative and administrative 
     action, including conforming and other amendments to law, as 
     the Deputy Secretary considers appropriate to implement the 
     plan; and
       (D) any other matters that the Deputy Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (4) Prohibition on delegation.--The Deputy Secretary of 
     Defense may not delegate the authority to carry out this 
     subsection.
       (d) Independent Plan to Establish Military Department.--
       (1) Plan.--Not later than 45 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall 
     seek to enter into a contract with a federally funded 
     research and development center that is not closely 
     affiliated with the Department of the Air Force to develop a 
     plan to establish a separate military department responsible 
     for the national security space activities of the Department 
     of Defense. Such plan shall include recommendations for 
     legislative language.
       (2) Interim report.--Not later than August 1, 2018, the 
     Deputy Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees an interim report on the plan developed under 
     paragraph (1).
       (3) Final report.--Not later than December 31, 2018, the 
     Deputy Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a final report containing the plan developed under 
     paragraph (1), without change.

     SEC. 1602. CODIFICATION, EXTENSION, AND MODIFICATION OF 
                   LIMITATION ON CONSTRUCTION ON UNITED STATES 
                   TERRITORY OF SATELLITE POSITIONING GROUND 
                   MONITORING STATIONS OF FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.

       (a) Codification, Extension, and Modification.--Chapter 135 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
     end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 2279c. Limitation on construction on United States 
       territory of satellite positioning ground monitoring 
       stations of certain foreign governments.

       ``(b) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall 
     not apply to foreign governments that are allies of the 
     United States.
       ``(c) Sunset.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall 
     terminate on December 31, 2023.''.
       (b) Transfer of Provision.--Subsection (b) of section 1602 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2281 note) is--
       (1) transferred to section 2279c of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by subsection (a);
       (2) inserted as the first subsection of such section;
       (3) redesignated as subsection (a); and
       (4) amended--
       (A) by amending the subsection heading to read as follows: 
     ``Limitation''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (6).

     SEC. 1603. FOREIGN COMMERCIAL SATELLITE SERVICES: 
                   CYBERSECURITY THREATS AND LAUNCHES.

       (a) Cybersecurity Risks.--Subsection (a) of section 2279 of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
     semicolon;
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting: ``; or''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) entering into such contract would create an 
     unacceptable cybersecurity risk for the Department of 
     Defense.''.
       (b) Launches.--Such section is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (b) through (e) as 
     subsections (c) through (f), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
     subsection (b):
       ``(b) Launches and Manufacturers.--
       ``(1) Limitation.--In addition to the prohibition in 
     subsection (a), and except as provided in paragraph (2) and 
     in subsection (c), the Secretary may not enter into a 
     contract for satellite services with any entity if the 
     Secretary reasonably believes that such satellite services 
     will be provided using satellites that will be--
       ``(A) designed or manufactured in a covered foreign 
     country, or by an entity controlled in whole or in part by, 
     or acting on behalf of, the government of a covered foreign 
     country; or
       ``(B) launched using a launch vehicle that is designed or 
     manufactured in a covered foreign country, or that is 
     provided by the government of a covered foreign country or by 
     an entity controlled in whole or in part by, or acting on 
     behalf of, the government of a covered foreign country, 
     regardless of the location of the launch (unless such 
     location is in the United States).
       ``(2) Exception.--The limitation in paragraph (1) shall not 
     apply with respect to--
       ``(A) a launch that occurs prior to December 31, 2022; or
       ``(B) a contract or other agreement relating to launch 
     services that, prior to the date that is 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this subsection, was either fully 
     paid for by the contractor or covered by a legally binding 
     commitment of the contractor to pay for such services.
       ``(3) Launch vehicle defined.--In this subsection, the term 
     `launch vehicle' means a fully integrated space launch 
     vehicle.''.
       (c) Definitions.--Subsection (f) of section 2279 of title 
     10, United States Code, as redesignated by subsection 
     (b)(1)(A), is amended to read as follows:
       ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `covered foreign country' means any of the 
     following:
       ``(A) A country described in section 1261(c)(2) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
     (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2019).
       ``(B) The Russian Federation.
       ``(2) The term `cybersecurity risk' means threats to and 
     vulnerabilities of information or information systems and any 
     related consequences caused by or resulting from unauthorized 
     access, use, disclosure, degradation, disruption, 
     modification, or destruction of such information or 
     information systems, including such related consequences 
     caused by an act of terrorism.''.
       (d) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Conforming amendments.--Such section 2279 is further 
     amended--
       (A) in the section heading, by striking ``services'' and 
     inserting ``services and foreign launches'';
       (B) by striking ``subsection (b)'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``subsection (c)'';
       (C) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``launch or other'';
       (D) in subsection (c), as redesignated by subsection 
     (b)(1), by striking ``prohibition in subsection (a)'' and 
     inserting ``prohibitions in subsection (a) and (b)''; and
       (E) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``prohibition under subsection (a)'' and inserting 
     ``prohibition under subsection (a) or (b)''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 135 of title 10,

[[Page H8824]]

     United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating 
     to section 2279 and inserting the following:

``2279. Foreign commercial satellite services and foreign launches.''.
       (e) Application.--Except as otherwise specifically 
     provided, the amendments made by this section shall apply 
     with respect to contracts for satellite services awarded by 
     the Secretary of Defense on or after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 1604. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON COMMERCIAL WEATHER 
                   DATA.

       Section 1613 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``one year'' and 
     inserting ``two years'';
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) by striking ``Committees on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``appropriate congressional committees''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In 
     this subsection, the term `appropriate congressional 
     committees' means--
       ``(A) the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives; and
       ``(B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate 
     and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives.''.

     SEC. 1605. EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE MODERNIZATION 
                   AND SUSTAINMENT OF ASSURED ACCESS TO SPACE.

       (a) Development.--
       (1) Evolved expendable launch vehicle.--Using funds 
     described in paragraph (3), the Secretary of Defense may only 
     obligate or expend funds to carry out the evolved expendable 
     launch vehicle program to--
       (A) develop a domestic rocket propulsion system to replace 
     non-allied space launch engines;
       (B) develop the necessary interfaces to, or integration of, 
     such domestic rocket propulsion system with an existing or 
     planned launch vehicle; and
       (C) develop capabilities necessary to enable existing or 
     planned commercially available space launch vehicles or 
     infrastructure that are primarily for national security space 
     missions to meet the assured access to space requirements 
     pursuant to section 2273 of title 10, United States Code.
       (2) Prohibition.--Except as provided in this section, none 
     of the funds described in paragraph (3) shall be obligated or 
     expended for the evolved expendable launch vehicle program.
       (3) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph 
     are the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for research, 
     development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for the evolved 
     expendable launch vehicle program.
       (4) Termination.--The authority to carry out subparagraphs 
     (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) shall terminate on the date on 
     which the Secretary of the Air Force certifies to the 
     congressional defense committees that a successful full-scale 
     test of a domestic rocket engine has occurred.
       (b) Other Authorities.--Nothing in this section shall 
     affect or prohibit the Secretary from procuring launch 
     services of evolved expendable launch vehicle launch systems, 
     including with respect to any associated operation and 
     maintenance of capabilities and infrastructure relating to 
     such systems.
       (c) Notification.--Not later than 30 days before any date 
     on which the Secretary publishes a draft or final request for 
     proposals, or obligates funds, for the development under 
     subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall notify the 
     congressional defense committees of such proposed draft or 
     final request for proposals or proposed obligation, as the 
     case may be. If such proposed draft or final request for 
     proposals or proposed obligation relates to intelligence 
     requirements, the Secretary shall also notify the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate.
       (d) Assessment.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination 
     with the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate a report containing an assessment of the most 
     cost-effective method to meet the assured access to space 
     requirements pursuant to section 2273 of title 10, United 
     States Code, with respect to each of the following periods:
       (1) The five-year period beginning on the date of the 
     report.
       (2) The 10-year period beginning on the date of the report.
       (3) The period consisting of the full lifecycle of the 
     evolved expendable launch vehicle program.
       (e) Rocket Propulsion System Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``rocket propulsion system'' means, with respect to the 
     development authorized by subsection (a)(1), a main booster, 
     first-stage rocket engine (including such an engine using 
     kerosene or methane-based or other propellant) or motor. The 
     term does not include a launch vehicle, an upper stage, a 
     strap-on motor, or related infrastructure.

     SEC. 1606. DEMONSTRATION OF BACKUP AND COMPLEMENTARY 
                   POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING 
                   CAPABILITIES OF GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM.

       (a) Plan.--During fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security (referred to in this section as the 
     ``Secretaries'') shall jointly develop a plan for carrying 
     out a backup GPS capability demonstration. The plan shall--
       (1) be based on the results of the study conducted under 
     section 1618 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2595); and
       (2) include the activities that the Secretaries determine 
     necessary to carry out such demonstration.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall provide to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the 
     plan developed under subsection (a). The briefing shall 
     include--
       (1) identification of the sectors that would be expected to 
     participate in the backup GPS capability demonstration 
     described in the plan;
       (2) an estimate of the costs of implementing the 
     demonstration in each sector identified in paragraph (1); and
       (3) an explanation of the extent to which the demonstration 
     may be carried out with the funds appropriated for such 
     purpose.
       (c) Implementation.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
     appropriations and beginning not earlier than the day after 
     the date on which the briefing is provided under subsection 
     (b), the Secretaries shall jointly initiate the backup GPS 
     capability demonstration to the extent described under 
     subsection (b)(3).
       (2) Termination.--The authority to carry out the backup GPS 
     capability demonstration under paragraph (1) shall terminate 
     on the date that is 18 months after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act.
       (d) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on the backup 
     GPS capability demonstration carried out under subsection (c) 
     that includes--
       (1) a description of the opportunities and challenges 
     learned from such demonstration; and
       (2) a description of the next actions the Secretaries 
     determine appropriate to backup and complement the 
     positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities of the 
     Global Positioning System for national security and critical 
     infrastructure, including, at a minimum, the timeline and 
     funding required to issue a request for proposals for such 
     capabilities.
       (e) NSPD-39.--
       (1) Joint funding.--The costs to carry out this section 
     shall be consistent with the responsibilities established in 
     National Security Presidential Directive 39 titled ``U.S. 
     Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Policy''.
       (2) Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
     to modify the roles or responsibilities established in such 
     National Security Presidential Directive 39.
       (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated to carry out this section for fiscal year 
     2018 not more than $10,000,000 for the Department of Defense, 
     as specified in the funding tables in division D.
       (g) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the 
     Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (C) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate.
       (2) The term ``backup GPS capability demonstration'' means 
     a proof-of-concept demonstration of capabilities to backup 
     and complement the positioning, navigation, and timing 
     capabilities of the Global Positioning System for national 
     security and critical infrastructure.

     SEC. 1607. ENHANCEMENT OF POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING 
                   CAPACITY.

       (a) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
     Council on Oversight of the Department of Defense 
     Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Enterprise established by 
     section 2279b of title 10, United States Code, shall develop 
     a plan to increase the positioning, navigation, and timing 
     capacity of the Department of Defense to provide resilience 
     to the positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities of 
     the Department. Such plan shall--
       (1) ensure that military Global Positioning System user 
     equipment terminals have the capability, including with 
     appropriate mitigation efforts, to receive trusted signals 
     from the Galileo satellites of the European Union and the 
     QZSS satellites of Japan, beginning with increment 2 of the 
     acquisition of such terminals;
       (2) evaluate the risks and benefits with respect to 
     ensuring the capability described in paragraph (1);
       (3) include an assessment of the feasibility, benefits, and 
     risks of military Global Positioning System user equipment 
     terminals having the capability to receive non-allied 
     positioning, navigation, and timing signals, beginning with 
     increment 2 of the acquisition of such terminals;
       (4) include an assessment of options to use hosted payloads 
     to provide redundancy for the Global Positioning System 
     signal;
       (5) ensure that the Secretary, with the concurrence of the 
     Secretary of State, engages with relevant allies of the 
     United States to--
       (A) enable military Global Positioning System user 
     equipment terminals to receive the positioning, navigation, 
     and timing signals of such allies; and
       (B) negotiate other potential agreements relating to the 
     enhancement of positioning, navigation, and timing;

[[Page H8825]]

       (6) include any other options the Secretary of Defense 
     determines appropriate and a determination by the Secretary 
     regarding whether the plan should be implemented; and
       (7) include an evaluation by the Director of National 
     Intelligence of the benefits and risks of using non-allied 
     positioning, navigation, and timing signals.
       (b) Submission.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
       (1) submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, 
     and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate the plan 
     under subsection (a); and
       (2) submit to the Permanent Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the Senate the evaluation 
     described in paragraph (6) of such subsection.

     SEC. 1608. COMMERCIAL SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS PATHFINDER 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
     the Air Force shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report that includes the views and plans of the Secretary 
     with respect to using the transaction authority provided by 
     section 2371 of title 10, United States Code, to acquire from 
     commercial providers a portion of the satellite bandwidth, 
     ground services, and advanced services for the pathfinder 
     program.
       (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``pathfinder 
     program'' means the commercial satellite communications 
     programs of the Air Force designed to demonstrate the 
     feasibility of new, alternative acquisition and procurement 
     models for commercial satellite communications.

     SEC. 1609. LAUNCH SUPPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION.

       (a) In General.--In support of the policy specified in 
     section 2273 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall carry out a program to modernize 
     infrastructure and improve support activities for the 
     processing and launch of United States national security 
     space vehicles launching from Federal ranges.
       (b) Elements.--The program under subsection (a) shall 
     include--
       (1) investments in infrastructure to improve operations at 
     the Eastern and Western Ranges that may benefit all users, to 
     enhance the overall capabilities of ranges, to improve 
     safety, and to reduce the long-term cost of operations and 
     maintenance;
       (2) measures to normalize processes, systems, and products 
     across the Eastern and Western ranges to minimize the burden 
     on launch providers; and
       (3) improvements in transparency, flexibility, and, 
     responsiveness for launch scheduling.
       (c) Consultation.--In carrying out the program under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary may consult with current and 
     anticipated users of the Eastern and Western Ranges.
       (d) Cooperation.--In carrying out the program under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary may consider partnerships 
     authorized under section 2276 of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (e) Report.--
       (1) Report required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report on the plan 
     for the implementation of the program under subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
     include--
       (A) a description of plans and the resources needed to 
     improve launch support infrastructure, utilities, support 
     equipment, and range operations;
       (B) a description of plans to streamline and normalize 
     processes, systems, and products at the Eastern and Western 
     ranges, to ensure consistency for range users; and
       (C) recommendations for improving transparency, 
     flexibility, and responsiveness in launch scheduling.

     SEC. 1610. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDING FOR JOINT 
                   SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER MISSION SYSTEM.

       (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for the Joint Space Operations Center mission system, not 
     more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the 
     date on which the Secretary of the Air Force certifies to the 
     congressional defense committees that the Secretary has 
     developed the plan under subsection (b).
       (b) Plan.--The Secretary shall develop and implement a plan 
     to operationalize existing commercial space situational 
     awareness capabilities to address warfighter requirements, 
     consistent with the best-in-breed concept. Except as provided 
     by subsection (c), the Secretary shall commence such 
     implementation by not later than May 30, 2018.
       (c) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the implementation of 
     the plan developed under subsection (b) if the Secretary 
     determines that existing commercial capabilities will not 
     address national security requirements or existing space 
     situational awareness capability gaps. The authority under 
     this subsection may not be delegated below the Deputy 
     Secretary of Defense.

     SEC. 1611. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR DELTA IV LAUNCH 
                   VEHICLE.

       None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 or any 
     fiscal year thereafter for the Air Force may be obligated or 
     expended to maintain infrastructure, system engineering, 
     critical skills, base and range support, depreciation, or 
     sustainment commodities for the Delta IV launch vehicle until 
     the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to 
     the congressional defense committees a certification that the 
     Air Force plans to launch a satellite procured by the Air 
     Force on a Delta IV launch vehicle during the three-year 
     period beginning on the date of the certification.

     SEC. 1612. AIR FORCE SPACE CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY WATCH 
                   LIST.

       (a) In General.--The Commander of the Air Force Space and 
     Missile Systems Center shall establish and maintain a watch 
     list of contractors with a history of poor performance on 
     space procurement contracts or research, development, test, 
     and evaluation space program contracts.
       (b) Basis for Inclusion on List.--
       (1) Determination.--The Commander may place a contractor on 
     the watch list established under subsection (a) upon 
     determining that the ability of the contractor to perform a 
     contract specified in such subsection is uncertain because of 
     any of the following issues:
       (A) Poor performance or award fee scores below 50 percent.
       (B) Financial concerns.
       (C) Felony convictions or civil judgements.
       (D) Security or foreign ownership and control issues.
       (2) Discretion of the commander.--The Commander shall be 
     responsible for determining which contractors to place on the 
     watch list, whether an entire company or a specific division 
     should be included, and when to remove a contractor from the 
     list.
       (c) Effect of Listing.--
       (1) Prime contracts.--The Commander may not solicit an 
     offer from, award a contract to, execute an engineering 
     change proposal with, or exercise an option on any space 
     program of the Air Force with a contractor included on the 
     list established under subsection (a) without the prior 
     approval of the Commander.
       (2) Subcontracts.--A prime contractor on a contract entered 
     into with the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center may 
     not enter into a subcontract valued in excess of $3,000,000 
     or five percent of the prime contract value, whichever is 
     lesser, with a contractor included on the watch list 
     established under subsection (a) without the prior approval 
     of the Commander.
       (d) Request for Removal From List.--A contractor may submit 
     to the Commander a written request for removal from the watch 
     list, including evidence that the contractor has resolved the 
     issue that was the basis for inclusion on the list.
       (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed as preventing the suspension or debarment of a 
     contractor, but inclusion on the watch list shall not be 
     construed as a punitive measure or de facto suspension or 
     debarment of a contractor.

     SEC. 1613. CERTIFICATION AND BRIEFING ON OPERATIONAL AND 
                   CONTINGENCY PLANS FOR LOSS OR DEGRADATION OF 
                   SPACE CAPABILITIES.

       (a) Certification.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly 
     certify to the appropriate congressional committees that 
     appropriate contingency plans exist in the event of a loss or 
     degradation of space capabilities of the United States.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly provide 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the 
     mitigation of any loss or degradation of space capabilities 
     pursuant to contingency plans described in subsection (a).
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the following:
       (1) The Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate.
       (2) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.

     SEC. 1614. REPORT ON PROTECTED SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS.

       Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on protected 
     satellite communications that contains each of the following:
       (1) A joint certification by the Commander of the United 
     States Strategic Command and the Commander of the United 
     States Northern Command that a protected satellite 
     communications system other than the advanced extremely high 
     frequency program will meet all applicable requirements for 
     the nuclear command, control, and communications mission of 
     the Department of Defense, the continuity of government 
     mission of the Department, and all other functions relating 
     to protected communications of the national command authority 
     and the combatant commands, including with respect to 
     operational forces in a peer-near-peer jamming environment.
       (2) With respect to such a protected satellite 
     communications system other than the advanced extremely high 
     frequency program, a certification by the Chairman of the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff that there is a validated military 
     requirement that meets requirements for resilience, mission 
     assurance, and the nuclear command, control, and 
     communications mission of the Department of Defense.
       (3) An assessment by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
     Staff on the effect of developing and fielding all the 
     waveforms and terminals required to use such a protected 
     satellite communications system other than the advanced 
     extremely high frequency program.
       (4) A detailed plan by the Secretary of the Air Force for 
     the ground control system and all user terminals developed 
     and acquired by the Air Force to be synchronized through 
     development and deployment to meet all applicable 
     requirements specified in paragraph (1).

[[Page H8826]]

  


     SEC. 1615. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ESTABLISHMENT OF SPACE FLAG 
                   TRAINING EVENT.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the Secretary of Defense should establish an annual 
     capstone training event titled ``Space Flag'' for space 
     professionals to--
       (A) develop and test doctrine, concepts of operation, and 
     tactics, techniques, and procedures, for--
       (i) protecting and defending assets and interests of the 
     United States through the spectrum of space control 
     activities;
       (ii) operating in the event of degradation or loss of space 
     capabilities;
       (iii) conducting space operations in a conflict that 
     extends to space;
       (iv) deterring conflict in space; and
       (v) other areas the Secretary determines necessary; and
       (B) inform and develop the appropriate design of the 
     operational training infrastructure of the space domain, 
     including with respect to appropriate and dedicated ranges, 
     threat replication, test community support, advanced space 
     training requirements, training simulators, and multi-domain 
     force packaging; and
       (2) such a training event should--
       (A) be modeled on the Red Flag and Cyber Flag exercises; 
     and
       (B) include live, virtual, and constructive training and 
     on-orbit threat replication, as appropriate.

     SEC. 1616. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON COORDINATING EFFORTS TO 
                   PREPARE FOR SPACE WEATHER EVENTS.

       It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense 
     should ensure the timely provision of operational space 
     weather observations, analyses, forecasts, and other products 
     to support the mission of the Department of Defense and 
     coalition partners, including the provision of alerts and 
     warnings for space weather phenomena that may affect weapons 
     systems, military operations, or the defense of the United 
     States.

     SEC. 1617. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NATIONAL SPACE DEFENSE 
                   CENTER.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the National Space Defense Center is critical to 
     defending and securing the space domain in order to protect 
     all United States assets in space;
       (2) integration between the intelligence community and the 
     Department of Defense within the National Space Defense 
     Center is essential to detecting, assessing, and reacting to 
     evolving space threats; and
       (3) the Department of Defense, including the military 
     departments, and the elements of the intelligence community 
     should seek ways to bolster integration with respect to space 
     threats through work at the National Space Defense Center.
       (b) Intelligence Community Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
     U.S.C. 3003(4)).

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

     SEC. 1621. SECURITY CLEARANCES FOR FACILITIES OF CERTAIN 
                   COMPANIES.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 141 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 2410s. Security clearances for facilities of certain 
       companies.

       ``(a) Authority.--If the senior management official of a 
     covered company does not have a security clearance, the 
     Secretary of Defense may grant a security clearance to a 
     facility of such company only if the following criteria are 
     met:
       ``(1) The company has appointed a senior officer, director, 
     or employee of the company who has a security clearance at 
     the level of the security clearance of the facility to act as 
     the senior management official of the company with respect to 
     such facility.
       ``(2) Any senior management official, senior officer, or 
     director of the company who does not have such a security 
     clearance will not have access to any classified information, 
     including with respect to such facility.
       ``(3) The company has certified to the Secretary that the 
     senior officer, director, or employee appointed under 
     paragraph (1) has the authority to act on behalf of the 
     company with respect to such facility independent of any 
     senior management official, senior officer, or director 
     described in paragraph (2).
       ``(4) The facility meets all of the requirements to be 
     granted a security clearance other than any requirement 
     relating to the senior management official of the company 
     having an appropriate security clearance.
       ``(b) Covered Company.--In this section, the term `covered 
     company' means a company that has entered into a contract or 
     agreement with the Department of Defense, assists the 
     Department, or requires a facility to process classified 
     information.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``2410s. Security clearances for facilities of certain companies''.

     SEC. 1622. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN 
                   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.

       Section 431(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 
     31, 2023''.

     SEC. 1623. SUBMISSION OF AUDITS OF COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY FUNDS.

       Section 432(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``promptly''; and
       (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``by not later than December 31 of each year''.

     SEC. 1624. CLARIFICATION OF ANNUAL BRIEFING ON THE 
                   INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE 
                   REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMBATANT COMMANDS.

       Section 1626 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3635) is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(including with respect to space-based 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance)'' after 
     ``intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
     requirements'' both places it appears; and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``critical intelligence, 
     surveillance and reconnaissance requirements'' and inserting 
     ``critical intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
     requirements (including with respect to space-based 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance)''.

     SEC. 1625. CONSIDERATION OF SERVICE BY RECIPIENTS OF BOREN 
                   SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS IN EXCEPTED 
                   SERVICE POSITIONS AS SERVICE BY SUCH RECIPIENTS 
                   UNDER CAREER APPOINTMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF 
                   CAREER TENURE.

       Section 802(k) of the David L. Boren National Security 
     Education Act of 1991 (50 U.S.C. 1902(k)) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
       (2) in paragraph (2), in the matter before subparagraph 
     (A), by striking ``(3)(C)'' and inserting ``(4)(C)''; and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
       ``(3) Career tenure.--In the case of an individual whose 
     appointment to a position in the excepted service is 
     converted to a career or career-conditional appointment under 
     paragraph (1)(B), the period of service described in such 
     paragraph shall be treated, for purposes of the service 
     requirements for career tenure under title 5, United States 
     Code, as if it were service in a position under a career or 
     career-conditional appointment.''.

     SEC. 1626. REVIEW OF SUPPORT PROVIDED BY DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE 
                   ELEMENTS TO ACQUISITION ACTIVITIES OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT.

       (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense shall review the 
     support provided by Defense intelligence elements to the 
     acquisition activities conducted by the Secretary, with a 
     specific focus on such support--
       (1) consisting of planning, prioritizing, and resourcing 
     relating to developmental weapon systems; and
       (2) for existing weapon systems throughout the program 
     lifecycle of such systems.
       (b) Budget Structure.--The Secretary shall develop a 
     specific budget structure for a sustainable funding profile 
     to ensure the support provided by Defense intelligence 
     elements described in subsection (a). The Secretary shall 
     implement such structure beginning with the defense budget 
     materials for fiscal year 2020.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than May 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall provide to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a briefing on the results of the review under 
     subsection (a) and a plan to carry out subsection (b).
       (d) Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
     to relieve the Director of National Intelligence of the 
     responsibility to support the acquisition activities of the 
     Department of Defense through the National Intelligence 
     Program.
       (e) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.
       (2) The term ``defense budget materials'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 231(f) of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (3) The term ``Defense intelligence element'' means any of 
     the agencies, offices, and elements of the Department of 
     Defense included within the definition of ``intelligence 
     community'' under section 3(4) of the National Security Act 
     of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

     SEC. 1627. ESTABLISHMENT OF CHAIRMAN'S CONTROLLED ACTIVITY 
                   WITHIN JOINT STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE, 
                   SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE.

       (a) Chairman's Controlled Activity.--The Chairman of the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff shall--
       (1) undertake the roles, missions, and responsibilities of, 
     and preserve an equal or greater number of personnel billets 
     than the amount of such billets previously prescribed for, 
     the Joint Functional Component Command for Intelligence, 
     Surveillance, and Reconnaissance of the United States 
     Strategic Command; and
       (2) not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, establish an organization within the Joint 
     Staff--
       (A) that is designated as the Joint Staff Intelligence, 
     Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Directorate and Supporting 
     Chairman's Controlled Activity;
       (B) for which the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
     shall serve as the joint functional manager; and
       (C) that shall synchronize cross-combatant command 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance plans and 
     develop strategies integrating all intelligence, 
     surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities provided by 
     joint services, the National Reconnaissance Office, combat 
     support intelligence agencies of the Department of Defense, 
     and allies, to satisfy the intelligence needs of the 
     combatant commands for the Department of Defense.
       (b) Lead Agent.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate 
     the Secretary of the Air Force as the lead agent and sponsor 
     for funding for the

[[Page H8827]]

     organization established under subsection (a)(2).
       (c) Data Collection and Analysis to Support ISR Allocation 
     and Synchronization Processes.--In coordination with the 
     Director of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation, the 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall issue guidance to 
     the commanders of the geographical combatant commands that 
     requires the commanders to collect sufficient and relevant 
     data regarding the effectiveness of intelligence, 
     surveillance, and reconnaissance measures in a manner that 
     will--
       (1) enable the standardized, objective evaluation and 
     analysis of that data with respect to the use and 
     effectiveness of the intelligence, surveillance, and 
     reconnaissance capabilities provided to the commanders; and
       (2) support recommendations made by the organization 
     established under subsection (a)(2) to the Secretary of 
     Defense regarding the allocation of intelligence, 
     surveillance, and reconnaissance resources of the Department 
     of Defense.

     SEC. 1628. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO MULTI-USE SENSITIVE 
                   COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION FACILITIES.

       (a) In General.--In order to facilitate access for small 
     business concerns and nontraditional defense contractors to 
     affordable secure spaces, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, 
     shall develop processes and procedures necessary to build, 
     certify, and maintain certifications for multi-use sensitive 
     compartmented information facilities not tied to a single 
     contract and where multiple companies can securely work on 
     multiple projects at different security levels.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``small business concern'' has the meaning 
     given that term under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 632).
       (2) The term ``nontraditional defense contractors'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 2302 of title 10, United 
     States Code.

     SEC. 1629. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN 
                   COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Limitation on Counterintelligence Activities.--Of the 
     funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
     made available for fiscal year 2018 under the Military 
     Intelligence Program for operation and maintenance, Defense-
     wide, for the Defense Intelligence Agency for 
     counterintelligence activities, not more than 75 percent may 
     be obligated or expended until the date on which the Director 
     of the Defense Intelligence Agency submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees the report under subsection (b).
       (b) Report on Certain Resources.--Not later than March 1, 
     2018, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     that includes an accounting of the counterintelligence 
     enterprise management resources transferred from the 
     Counterintelligence Field Activity to the Defense 
     Intelligence Agency that identifies such resources that are 
     no longer dedicated to counterintelligence activities, as of 
     the date of the report.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

                     PART I--GENERAL CYBER MATTERS

     SEC. 1631. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SENSITIVE MILITARY 
                   CYBER OPERATIONS AND CYBER WEAPONS.

       (a) Notification.--Chapter 3 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     sections:

     ``Sec. 130j. Notification requirements for sensitive military 
       cyber operations

       ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (d), 
     the Secretary of Defense shall promptly submit to the 
     congressional defense committees notice in writing of any 
     sensitive military cyber operation conducted under this title 
     no later than 48 hours following such operation.
       ``(b) Procedures.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish and submit to the congressional defense committees 
     procedures for complying with the requirements of subsection 
     (a) consistent with the national security of the United 
     States and the protection of operational integrity. The 
     Secretary shall promptly notify the congressional defense 
     committees in writing of any changes to such procedures at 
     least 14 days prior to the adoption of any such changes.
       ``(2) The congressional defense committees shall ensure 
     that committee procedures designed to protect from 
     unauthorized disclosure classified information relating to 
     national security of the United States are sufficient to 
     protect the information that is submitted to the committees 
     pursuant to this section.
       ``(3) In the event of an unauthorized disclosure of a 
     sensitive military cyber operation covered by this section, 
     the Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent 
     practicable, that the congressional defense committees are 
     notified immediately of the sensitive military cyber 
     operation concerned. The notification under this paragraph 
     may be verbal or written, but in the event of a verbal 
     notification a written notification shall be provided by not 
     later than 48 hours after the provision of the verbal 
     notification.
       ``(c) Sensitive Military Cyber Operation Defined.--(1) In 
     this section, the term `sensitive military cyber operation' 
     means an action described in paragraph (2) that--
       ``(A) is carried out by the armed forces of the United 
     States; and
       ``(B) is intended to cause cyber effects outside a 
     geographic location--
       ``(i) where the armed forces of the United States are 
     involved in hostilities (as that term is used in section 1543 
     of title 50, United States Code); or
       ``(ii) with respect to which hostilities have been declared 
     by the United States.
       ``(2) The actions described in this paragraph are the 
     following:
       ``(A) An offensive cyber operation.
       ``(B) A defensive cyber operation outside the Department of 
     Defense Information Networks to defeat an ongoing or imminent 
     threat.
       ``(d) Exceptions.--The notification requirement under 
     subsection (a) does not apply--
       ``(1) to a training exercise conducted with the consent of 
     all nations where the intended effects of the exercise will 
     occur; or
       ``(2) to a covert action (as that term is defined in 
     section 3093 of title 50, United States Code).
       ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed to provide any new authority or to alter or 
     otherwise affect the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et 
     seq.), the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public 
     Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note), or any requirement under 
     the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).

     ``Sec. 130k. Notification requirements for cyber weapons

       ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c), 
     the Secretary of Defense shall promptly submit to the 
     congressional defense committees notice in writing of the 
     following:
       ``(1) With respect to a cyber capability that is intended 
     for use as a weapon, on a quarterly basis, the aggregated 
     results of all reviews of the capability for legality under 
     international law pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 
     5000.01 carried out by any military department concerned.
       ``(2) The use as a weapon of any cyber capability that has 
     been approved for such use under international law by a 
     military department no later than 48 hours following such 
     use.
       ``(b) Procedures.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish and submit to the congressional defense committees 
     procedures for complying with the requirements of subsection 
     (a) consistent with the national security of the United 
     States and the protection of operational integrity. The 
     Secretary shall promptly notify the congressional defense 
     committees in writing of any changes to such procedures at 
     least 14 days prior to the adoption of any such changes.
       ``(2) The congressional defense committees shall ensure 
     that committee procedures designed to protect from 
     unauthorized disclosure classified information relating to 
     national security of the United States are sufficient to 
     protect the information that is submitted to the committees 
     pursuant to this section.
       ``(3) In the event of an unauthorized disclosure of a cyber 
     capability covered by this section, the Secretary shall 
     ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the 
     congressional defense committees are notified immediately of 
     the cyber capability concerned. The notification under this 
     paragraph may be verbal or written, but in the event of a 
     verbal notification a written notification shall be provided 
     by not later than 48 hours after the provision of the verbal 
     notification.
       ``(c) Exceptions.--The notification requirement under 
     subsection (a) does not apply--
       ``(1) to a training exercise conducted with the consent of 
     all nations where the intended effects of the exercise will 
     occur; or
       ``(2) to a covert action (as that term is defined in 
     section 3093 of title 50, United States Code).
       ``(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed to provide any new authority or to alter or 
     otherwise affect the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et 
     seq.), the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public 
     Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note), or any requirement under 
     the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et 
     seq.).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new items:

``130j. Notification requirements for sensitive military cyber 
              operations
``130k. Notification requirements for cyber weapons''.

     SEC. 1632. MODIFICATION TO QUARTERLY CYBER OPERATIONS 
                   BRIEFINGS.

       (a) In General.--Section 484 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense shall provide to 
     the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate'' and inserting the following:
       ``(a) Briefings Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the congressional defense committees''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(b) Elements.--Each briefing under subsection (a) shall 
     include, with respect to the military operations in 
     cyberspace described in such subsection, the following:
       ``(1) An update, set forth separately for each geographic 
     and functional command, that describes the operations carried 
     out by the command and any hostile cyber activity directed at 
     the command.
       ``(2) An overview of authorities and legal issues 
     applicable to the operations, including any relevant legal 
     limitations.
       ``(3) An outline of any interagency activities and 
     initiatives relating to the operations.
       ``(4) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be 
     appropriate.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     and shall apply with respect to briefings required be 
     provided under section 484 of title 10, United States Code, 
     on or after that date.

[[Page H8828]]

  


     SEC. 1633. POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES ON CYBERSPACE, 
                   CYBERSECURITY, AND CYBER WARFARE.

       (a) In General.--The President shall--
       (1) develop a national policy for the United States 
     relating to cyberspace, cybersecurity, and cyber warfare; and
       (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     report on the policy.
       (b) Elements.--The national policy required under 
     subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
       (1) Delineation of the instruments of national power 
     available to deter or respond to cyber attacks or other 
     malicious cyber activities by a foreign power or actor that 
     targets United States interests.
       (2) Available or planned response options to address the 
     full range of potential cyber attacks on United States 
     interests that could be conducted by potential adversaries of 
     the United States.
       (3) Available or planned denial options that prioritize the 
     defensibility and resiliency against cyber attacks and 
     malicious cyber activities that are carried out against 
     infrastructure critical to the political integrity, economic 
     security, and national security of the United States.
       (4) Available or planned cyber capabilities that may be 
     used to impose costs on any foreign power targeting the 
     United States or United States persons with a cyber attack or 
     malicious cyber activity.
       (5) Development of multi-prong response options, such as--
       (A) boosting the cyber resilience of critical United States 
     strike systems (including cyber, nuclear, and non-nuclear 
     systems) in order to ensure the United States can credibly 
     threaten to impose unacceptable costs in response to even the 
     most sophisticated large-scale cyber attack;
       (B) developing offensive cyber capabilities and specific 
     plans and strategies to put at risk targets most valued by 
     adversaries of the United States and their key decision 
     makers; and
       (C) enhancing attribution capabilities and developing 
     intelligence and offensive cyber capabilities to detect, 
     disrupt, and potentially expose malicious cyber activities.
       (c) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--
       (1) In general.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for procurement, research, development, test and evaluation, 
     and operations and maintenance, for the covered activities of 
     the Defense Information Systems Agency, not more than 60 
     percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which 
     the President submits to the appropriate congressional 
     committees the report under subsection (a)(2).
       (2) Covered activities described.--The covered activities 
     referred to in paragraph (1) are the activities of the 
     Defense Information Systems Agency in support of--
       (A) the White House Communication Agency; and
       (B) the White House Situation Support Staff.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``foreign power'' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
     Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
       (2) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
     House of Representatives; and
       (C) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee 
     on the Judiciary of the Senate.

     SEC. 1634. PROHIBITION ON USE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
                   DEVELOPED OR PROVIDED BY KASPERSKY LAB.

       (a) Prohibition.--No department, agency, organization, or 
     other element of the Federal Government may use, whether 
     directly or through work with or on behalf of another 
     department, agency, organization, or element of the Federal 
     Government, any hardware, software, or services developed or 
     provided, in whole or in part, by--
       (1) Kaspersky Lab (or any successor entity);
       (2) any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under 
     common control with Kaspersky Lab; or
       (3) any entity of which Kaspersky Lab has majority 
     ownership.
       (b) Effective Date.--The prohibition in subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on October 1, 2018.
       (c) Review and Report.--
       (1) Review.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
     the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
     the Attorney General, the Administrator of the General 
     Services Administration, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, shall conduct a review of the procedures for 
     removing suspect products or services from the information 
     technology networks of the Federal Government.
       (2) Report.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
     review conducted under paragraph (1).
       (B) Elements.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall 
     include the following:
       (i) A description of the Federal Government-wide 
     authorities that may be used to prohibit, exclude, or prevent 
     the use of suspect products or services on the information 
     technology networks of the Federal Government, including--

       (I) the discretionary authorities of agencies to prohibit, 
     exclude, or prevent the use of such products or services;
       (II) the authorities of a suspension and debarment official 
     to prohibit, exclude, or prevent the use of such products or 
     services;
       (III) authorities relating to supply chain risk management;
       (IV) authorities that provide for the continuous monitoring 
     of information technology networks to identify suspect 
     products or services; and
       (V) the authorities provided under the Federal Information 
     Security Management Act of 2002.

       (ii) Assessment of any gaps in the authorities described in 
     clause (i), including any gaps in the enforcement of 
     decisions made under such authorities.
       (iii) An explanation of the capabilities and methodologies 
     used to periodically assess and monitor the information 
     technology networks of the Federal Government for prohibited 
     products or services.
       (iv) An assessment of the ability of the Federal Government 
     to periodically conduct training and exercises in the use of 
     the authorities described in clause (i)--

       (I) to identify recommendations for streamlining process; 
     and
       (II) to identify recommendations for education and training 
     curricula, to be integrated into existing training or 
     certification courses.

       (v) A description of information sharing mechanisms that 
     may be used to share information about suspect products or 
     services, including mechanisms for the sharing of such 
     information among the Federal Government, industry, the 
     public, and international partners.
       (vi) Identification of existing tools for business 
     intelligence, application management, and commerce due-
     diligence that are either in use by elements of the Federal 
     Government, or that are available commercially.
       (vii) Recommendations for improving the authorities, 
     processes, resourcing, and capabilities of the Federal 
     Government for the purpose of improving the procedures for 
     identifying and removing prohibited products or services from 
     the information technology networks of the Federal 
     Government.
       (viii) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be 
     appropriate.
       (C) Form.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the following:
       (A) The Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
       (B) The Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     Senate.

     SEC. 1635. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO 
                   ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIFIED COMBATANT COMMAND FOR 
                   CYBER OPERATIONS.

       Section 167b of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (d); and
       (2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
     (d) and (e), respectively.

     SEC. 1636. MODIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF ACQUISITION 
                   WORKFORCE TO INCLUDE PERSONNEL CONTRIBUTING TO 
                   CYBERSECURITY SYSTEMS.

       Section 1705(h)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(i)'' after ``(A)'';
       (2) by striking ``; and'' and inserting ``; or''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
       ``(ii) contribute significantly to the acquisition or 
     development of systems relating to cybersecurity; and''.

     SEC. 1637. INTEGRATION OF STRATEGIC INFORMATION OPERATIONS 
                   AND CYBER-ENABLED INFORMATION OPERATIONS.

       (a) Processes and Procedures for Integration.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
       (A) establish processes and procedures to integrate 
     strategic information operations and cyber-enabled 
     information operations across the elements of the Department 
     of Defense responsible for such operations, including the 
     elements of the Department responsible for military 
     deception, public affairs, electronic warfare, and cyber 
     operations; and
       (B) ensure that such processes and procedures provide for 
     integrated Defense-wide strategy, planning, and budgeting 
     with respect to the conduct of such operations by the 
     Department, including activities conducted to counter and 
     deter such operations by malign actors.
       (2) Designated senior official.--The Secretary of Defense 
     shall designate a senior official of the Department of 
     Defense (in this section referred to as the ``designated 
     senior official'') who shall implement and oversee the 
     processes and procedures established under paragraph (1). The 
     designated senior official shall be selected by the Secretary 
     from among individuals serving in the Department of Defense 
     at or below the level of an Under Secretary of Defense.
       (3) Responsibilities.--The designated senior official shall 
     have, with respect to the implementation and oversight of the 
     processes and procedures established under paragraph (1), the 
     following responsibilities:
       (A) Oversight of strategic policy and guidance.
       (B) Overall resource management for the integration of 
     information operations and cyber-enabled information 
     operations of the Department.
       (C) Coordination with the head of the Global Engagement 
     Center to support the purpose of the Center (as described 
     section 1287(a)(2) of the

[[Page H8829]]

     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 22 U.S.C. 2656 note)) and liaison with 
     the Center and other relevant Federal Government entities to 
     support such purpose.
       (D) Development of a strategic framework for the conduct of 
     information operations by the Department of Defense, 
     including cyber-enabled information operations, coordinated 
     across all relevant elements of the Department of Defense, 
     including both near-term and long-term guidance for the 
     conduct of such coordinated operations.
       (E) Development and dissemination of a common operating 
     paradigm across the elements of the Department of Defense 
     specified in paragraph (1) to counter the influence, 
     deception, and propaganda activities of key malign actors, 
     including in cyberspace.
       (F) Development of guidance for, and promotion of, the 
     capability of the Department of Defense to liaison with the 
     private sector, including social media, on matters relating 
     to the influence activities of malign actors.
       (b) Requirements and Plans for Information Operations.--
       (1) Combatant command planning and regional strategy.--(A) 
     The Secretary shall require each commander of a combatant 
     command to develop, in coordination with the relevant 
     regional Assistant Secretary of State or Assistant 
     Secretaries of State and with the assistance of the 
     Coordinator of the Global Engagement Center and the 
     designated senior official, a regional information strategy 
     and interagency coordination plan for carrying out the 
     strategy, where applicable.
       (B) The Secretary shall require each commander of a 
     combatant command to develop such requirements and specific 
     plans as may be necessary for the conduct of information 
     operations in support of the strategy required under 
     subparagraph (A), including plans for deterring information 
     operations, including deterrence in the cyber domain, by 
     malign actors against the United States, allies of the United 
     States, and interests of the United States.
       (2) Implementation plan for dod strategy for operations in 
     the information environment.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the designated senior official 
     shall--
       (i) review the strategy of the Department of Defense titled 
     ``Department of Defense Strategy for Operations in the 
     Information Environment'' and dated June 2016; and
       (ii) submit to the congressional defense committees a plan 
     for implementation of such strategy.
       (B) Elements.--The plan required under subparagraph (A) 
     shall include, at a minimum, the following:
       (i) An accounting of the efforts undertaken in support of 
     the strategy described in subparagraph (A)(i) in the period 
     since it was issued in June 2016.
       (ii) A description of any updates or changes to such 
     strategy that have been made since it was first issued, as 
     well as any expected updates or changes resulting from the 
     designation of the designated senior official.
       (iii) A description of the role of the Department of 
     Defense as part of a broader whole-of-Government strategy for 
     strategic communications, including a description of any 
     assumptions about the roles and contributions of other 
     departments and agencies of the Federal Government with 
     respect to such a strategy.
       (iv) Defined actions, performance metrics, and projected 
     timelines for achieving each of the 15 tasks specified in the 
     strategy described in subparagraph (A)(i).
       (v) An analysis of any personnel, resourcing, capability, 
     authority, or other gaps that will need to be addressed to 
     ensure effective implementation of the strategy described in 
     subparagraph (A)(i) across all relevant elements of the 
     Department of Defense.
       (vi) An investment framework and projected timeline for 
     addressing any gaps identified under clause (v).
       (vii) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense 
     considers relevant.
       (C) Periodic status reports.--Not less frequently than once 
     every 90 days during the three-year period beginning on the 
     date on which the implementation plan is submitted under 
     subparagraph (A)(ii), the designated senior official shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     describing the status of the efforts of the Department of 
     Defense in accomplishing the tasks specified under clauses 
     (iv) and (vi) of subparagraph (B).
       (c) Training and Education.--Consistent with the elements 
     of the implementation plan under paragraph (2), the 
     designated senior official shall recommend the establishment 
     of programs to provide training and education to such members 
     of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department 
     of Defense as the Secretary considers appropriate to ensure 
     that such members and employees understand the role of 
     information in warfare, the central goal of all military 
     operations to affect the perceptions, views, and decision 
     making of adversaries, and the effective management and 
     conduct of operations in the information environment.

     SEC. 1638. EXERCISE ON ASSESSING CYBERSECURITY SUPPORT TO 
                   ELECTION SYSTEMS OF STATES.

       (a) Inclusion of Cyber Vulnerabilities in Election Systems 
     in Cyber Guard Exercises.--Subject to subsection (b), the 
     Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security, may carry out exercises relating to the 
     cybersecurity of election systems of States as part of the 
     exercise commonly known as the ``Cyber Guard Exercise''.
       (b) Agreement Required.--The Secretary of Defense may carry 
     out an exercise relating to the cybersecurity of a State's 
     election system under subsection (a) only if the State enters 
     into a written agreement with the Secretary under which the 
     State--
       (1) agrees to participate in such exercise; and
       (2) agrees to allow vulnerability testing of the components 
     of the State's election system.
       (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the completion of 
     any Cyber Guard Exercise, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the ability of the National Guard to assist States, if called 
     upon, in defending election systems from cyberattacks. Such 
     report shall include a description of the capabilities, 
     readiness levels, and best practices of the National Guard 
     with respect to the prevention of cyber attacks on State 
     election systems.

     SEC. 1639. MEASUREMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH CYBERSECURITY 
                   REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than January 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall make such changes to the 
     cybersecurity scorecard as are necessary to ensure that the 
     Secretary measures the progress of each element of the 
     Department of Defense in securing the industrial control 
     systems of the Department against cyber threats, including 
     such industrial control systems as supervisory control and 
     data acquisition systems, distributed control systems, 
     programmable logic controllers, and platform information 
     technology.
       (b) Cybersecurity Scorecard Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``cybersecurity scorecard'' means the Department of 
     Defense Cybersecurity Scorecard used by the Department to 
     measure compliance with cybersecurity requirements as 
     described in the plan of the Department titled ``Department 
     of Defense Cybersecurity Discipline Implementation Plan''.

     SEC. 1640. STRATEGIC CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Director of the National Security 
     Agency, shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a plan for the establishment of a program to be known as the 
     ``Strategic Cybersecurity Program'' or ``SCP'' (in this 
     section referred to as the ``Program'').
       (b) Elements.--The Program shall be comprised of personnel 
     assigned to the Program by the Secretary of Defense from 
     among personnel, including regular and reserve members of the 
     Armed Forces, civilian employees of the Department, and 
     personnel of the research laboratories of the Department of 
     Defense and the Department of Energy, who have particular 
     expertise in the areas of responsibility described in 
     subsection (c). Any personnel assigned to the Program from 
     among personnel of the Department of Energy shall be so 
     assigned with the concurrence of the Secretary of Energy.
       (c) Responsibilities.--
       (1) In general.--Personnel assigned to the Program shall 
     assist the Department of Defense in improving the 
     cybersecurity of the following systems of the Federal 
     Government:
       (A) Offensive cyber systems.
       (B) Long-range strike systems.
       (C) Nuclear deterrent systems.
       (D) National security systems.
       (E) Critical infrastructure of the Department of Defense 
     (as that term is defined in section 1650(f)(1) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note)).
       (2) Reviews of systems and infrastructure.--In carrying out 
     the activities described in paragraph (1), the personnel 
     assigned to the Program shall conduct appropriate reviews of 
     existing systems and infrastructure and acquisition plans for 
     proposed systems and infrastructure. The review of an 
     acquisition plan for any proposed system or infrastructure 
     shall be carried out before Milestone B approval for such 
     system or infrastructure.
       (3) Results of reviews.--The results of each review carried 
     out under paragraph (2), including any remedial action 
     recommended pursuant to such review, shall be made available 
     to any agencies or organizations of the Department involved 
     in the development, procurement, operation, or maintenance of 
     the system or infrastructure concerned.
       (d) Integration With Other Efforts.--The plan required 
     under subsection (a) shall build upon, and shall not 
     duplicate, other efforts of the Department of Defense 
     relating to cybersecurity, including--
       (1) the evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon 
     systems of the Department of Defense required under section 
     1647 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016 (114-92; 129 Stat. 1118);
       (2) the evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of Department 
     of Defense critical infrastructure required under section 
     1650 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note); and
       (3) the activities of the cyber protection teams of the 
     Department of Defense.
       (e) Report.--Not later than one year after the date on 
     which the plan is submitted to the congressional defense 
     committees under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     on any activities carried out pursuant to such plan. The 
     report shall include the following:
       (1) A description of any activities of the Program carried 
     out pursuant to the plan during the time period covered by 
     the report.
       (2) A description of particular challenges encountered in 
     the course of the activities of the Program, if any, and of 
     actions taken to address such challenges.
       (3) A description of any plans for additional activities 
     under the Program.

     SEC. 1641. PLAN TO INCREASE CYBER AND INFORMATION OPERATIONS, 
                   DETERRENCE, AND DEFENSE.

       (a) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan 
     to--

[[Page H8830]]

       (1) increase inclusion of regional cyber planning within 
     larger joint planning exercises of the United States in the 
     Indo-Asia-Pacific region;
       (2) enhance joint, regional, and combined information 
     operations and strategic communication strategies to counter 
     Chinese and North Korean information warfare, malign 
     influence, and propaganda activities; and
       (3) identify potential areas of cybersecurity collaboration 
     and partnership capabilities with Asian allies and partners 
     of the United States.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on 
     the plan required under subsection (a).

     SEC. 1642. EVALUATION OF AGILE OR ITERATIVE DEVELOPMENT OF 
                   CYBER TOOLS AND APPLICATIONS.

       (a) Evaluation Required.--The Commander of the United 
     States Cyber Command (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Commander'') shall conduct an evaluation of alternative 
     methods for developing, acquiring, and maintaining software-
     based cyber tools and applications for the United States 
     Cyber Command, the Army Cyber Command, the Fleet Cyber 
     Command, the Air Force Cyber Command, and the Marine Corps 
     Cyberspace Command.
       (b) Goal.--The goal of the evaluation required by 
     subsection (a) shall be to identify a set of practices that 
     will--
       (1) increase the speed of development of cyber capabilities 
     of the Armed Forces;
       (2) provide more effective tools and capabilities for 
     developing, acquiring, and maintaining software-based cyber 
     tools and applications for the Armed Forces; and
       (3) create a repeatable, disciplined process for 
     developing, acquiring, and maintaining software-based cyber 
     tools and applications for the Armed Forces through which 
     progress and success or failure can be continuously measured.
       (c) Consideration of Agile or Iterative Development, and 
     Other Best Practices.--
       (1) In general.--The evaluation required by subsection (a) 
     shall include, with respect to the development, acquisition, 
     and maintenance of software-based cyber tools and 
     applications, consideration of agile or iterative development 
     practices, agile acquisition practices, and other similar 
     best practices of commercial industry.
       (2) Considerations.--In carrying out the evaluation 
     required by subsection (a), the Commander shall assess 
     requirements for implementing the practices described in 
     paragraph (1) and consider changes to established acquisition 
     practices that may be necessary to implement the practices 
     described in such paragraph, including changes to the 
     following:
       (A) The requirements process.
       (B) Contracting.
       (C) Testing.
       (D) User involvement in the development process.
       (E) Program management.
       (F) Milestone reviews and approvals.
       (G) The definitions of ``research and development'', 
     ``procurement'', and ``sustainment''.
       (H) The constraints of current appropriations account 
     definitions.
       (d) Assessment of Training and Education Requirements.--In 
     carrying out the evaluation required by subsection (a), the 
     Commander shall assess training and education requirements 
     for personnel in all areas and at all levels of management 
     relevant to the successful adoption of new acquisition models 
     and methods for developing, acquiring, and maintaining cyber 
     tools and applications as described in such subsection.
       (e) Services and Expertise.--In carrying out the evaluation 
     required by subsection (a), the Commander shall--
       (1) obtain services and expertise from--
       (A) the Defense Digital Service; and
       (B) federally funded research and development centers, such 
     as the Software Engineering Institute and the MITRE 
     Corporation; and
       (2) consult with such commercial software companies as the 
     Commander considers appropriate to learn about relevant 
     commercial best practices.
       (f) Recommendations.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Commander shall submit to the 
     Secretary of Defense recommendations for experimenting with 
     or adopting new acquisition methods identified pursuant to 
     the evaluation under subsection (a), including 
     recommendations for any actions that should be carried out to 
     ensure the successful implementation of such methods.
       (2) Congressional briefing.--Not later than 14 days after 
     submitting recommendations to the Secretary under paragraph 
     (1), the Commander shall provide to the congressional defense 
     committees a briefing on the recommendations.
       (g) Preservation of Existing Authority.--The evaluation 
     required under subsection (a) is intended to inform future 
     acquisition approaches. Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to limit or impede the Commander in exercising the 
     authority provided under section 807 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 
     U.S.C. 2224 note).
       (h) Agile or Iterative Development Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``agile or iterative development'', with 
     respect to software--
       (1) means acquisition pursuant to a method for delivering 
     multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for 
     operational use, evaluation, and feedback not exclusively 
     linked to any single, proprietary method or process; and
       (2) involves--
       (A) the incremental development and fielding of 
     capabilities, commonly called ``spirals'', ``spins'', or 
     ``sprints'', which can be measured in a few weeks or months; 
     and
       (B) continuous participation and collaboration by users, 
     testers, and requirements authorities.

     SEC. 1643. ASSESSMENT OF DEFENSE CRITICAL ELECTRIC 
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.

       Section 1650(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for fiscal year 2017 (114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is 
     amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(E) to assess the strategic benefits derived from, and 
     the challenges associated with, isolating military 
     infrastructure from the national electric grid and the use of 
     microgrids.''.

     SEC. 1644. CYBER POSTURE REVIEW.

       (a) Requirement for Comprehensive Review.--In order to 
     clarify the near-term policy and strategy of the United 
     States with respect to cyber deterrence, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall conduct a comprehensive review of the cyber 
     posture of the United States over the posture review period.
       (b) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct 
     the review under subsection (a) in consultation with the 
     Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of State, 
     as appropriate.
       (c) Elements of Review.--The review conducted under 
     subsection (a) shall include, for the posture review period, 
     the following elements:
       (1) The role of cyber forces in the military strategy, 
     planning, and programming of the United States.
       (2) Review of the role of cyber operations in combatant 
     commander operational planning, the ability of combatant 
     commanders to respond to hostile acts by adversaries, and the 
     ability of combatant commanders to engage and build capacity 
     with allies.
       (3) A review of the law, policies, and authorities relating 
     to, and necessary for the United States to maintain, a safe, 
     reliable, and credible cyber posture for responding to cyber 
     attacks and for deterrence in cyberspace.
       (4) A declaratory policy relating to the responses of the 
     United States to cyber attacks of significant consequence.
       (5) Proposed norms for the conduct of offensive cyber 
     operations for deterrence and in crisis and conflict.
       (6) Guidance for the development of a cyber deterrence 
     strategy (which may include activities, capability efforts, 
     and operations other than cyber activities, cyber capability 
     efforts, and cyber operations), including--
       (A) a review and assessment of various approaches to cyber 
     deterrence, determined in consultation with experts from 
     Government, academia, and industry;
       (B) a comparison of the strengths and weaknesses of the 
     approaches identified under subparagraph (A) relative to the 
     threat and to each other; and
       (C) an explanation of how the cyber deterrence strategy 
     will inform country-specific deterrence campaign plans 
     focused on key leadership of Russia, China, Iran, North 
     Korea, and any other country the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (7) Identification of the steps that should be taken to 
     bolster stability in cyberspace and, more broadly, stability 
     between major powers, taking into account--
       (A) the analysis and gaming of escalation dynamics in 
     various scenarios; and
       (B) consideration of the spiral escalatory effects of 
     countries developing increasingly potent offensive cyber 
     capabilities.
       (8) A determination of whether sufficient personnel are 
     trained and equipped to meet validated cyber requirements.
       (9) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (d) Report.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees a report on the results 
     of the cyber posture review conducted under subsection (a).
       (2) Form of report.--The report under paragraph (1) may be 
     submitted in unclassified form or classified form, as 
     necessary.
       (3) Limitation on availability of funds.--Of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for operations and maintenance 
     for the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
     Public Affairs, not more than 85 percent may be obligated or 
     expended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
     submits to the congressional defense committees the report 
     under paragraph (1).
       (e) Posture Review Period Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``posture review period'' means the period beginning on 
     the date that is five years after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act and ending on the date that is 10 years after 
     such date of enactment.

     SEC. 1645. BRIEFING ON CYBER CAPABILITY AND READINESS 
                   SHORTFALLS.

       (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army 
     shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of Senate 
     and the House of Representatives a briefing on the ability of 
     the Army Combat Training Centers to provide sufficient cyber 
     training for deploying forces.
       (b) Elements.--The briefing under subsection (a) shall 
     include--
       (1) an assessment of the pre-rotational training 
     requirements for all deploying Army forces relating to the 
     conduct of, and response to, cyber electromagnetic 
     activities;
       (2) an assessment of the training capabilities of the Army 
     Combat Training Centers with respect to cyber electromagnetic 
     activities; and
       (3) recommendations for any improvements to training 
     curricula, exercises, or infrastructure capabilities that may 
     be needed to fill gaps in

[[Page H8831]]

     cyber training capabilities as such gaps are identified in 
     the assessments under paragraphs (1) and (2).
       (c) Additional Considerations.--In preparing the briefing 
     under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Army shall take 
     into account the resources available within a 10-mile radius 
     of the Army Combat Training Centers that could be used to 
     address potential cyber capability and readiness shortfalls, 
     including resources from other military departments, defense 
     agencies, and field activities.
       (d) Cyber Electromagnetic Activities Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``cyber electromagnetic activities'' has 
     the meaning given the term in the Army Field Manual 3-38 
     titled ``Cyber Electromagnetic Activities''.

     SEC. 1646. BRIEFING ON CYBER APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN 
                   TECHNOLOGY.

       (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, 
     in consultation with the heads of such other departments and 
     agencies of the Federal Government as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate, shall provide to the appropriate committees of 
     Congress a briefing on the cyber applications of blockchain 
     technology.
       (b) Elements.--The briefing under subsection (a) shall 
     include--
       (1) a description of potential offensive and defensive 
     cyber applications of blockchain technology and other 
     distributed database technologies;
       (2) an assessment of efforts by foreign powers, extremist 
     organizations, and criminal networks to utilize such 
     technologies;
       (3) an assessment of the use or planned use of such 
     technologies by the Federal Government and critical 
     infrastructure networks; and
       (4) an assessment of the vulnerabilities of critical 
     infrastructure networks to cyber attacks.
       (c) Form of Briefing.--The briefing under subsection (a) 
     shall be provided in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified supplement.
       (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Select Committee 
     on Intelligence, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select 
     Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Financial 
     Services, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
     of Representatives.

     SEC. 1647. BRIEFING ON TRAINING INFRASTRUCTURE FOR CYBER 
                   MISSION FORCES.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the 
     congressional defense committees a briefing on the Department 
     of Defense training infrastructure for cyber mission forces. 
     Such briefing shall include the following:
       (1) A strategic plan for the growth and expansion of the 
     training infrastructure for cyber mission forces across the 
     Department of Defense commensurate with the projected growth 
     of the cyber mission force.
       (2) Identification of the shortcomings in such training 
     infrastructure.
       (3) A plan for the management and oversight of such 
     training infrastructure, including management and oversight 
     of the implementation of the strategic plan described in 
     paragraph (1).
       (4) Commercial applications that may potentially be used to 
     address the needs identified in the strategic plan described 
     in paragraph (1).

     SEC. 1648. REPORT ON TERMINATION OF DUAL-HAT ARRANGEMENT FOR 
                   COMMANDER OF THE UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.

       (a) Report.--Not later than May 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report on the progress of the Department of 
     Defense in meeting the requirements of section 1642 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2601).
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include, with respect to any decision to terminate the dual-
     hat arrangement as described in section 1642 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2601), the following:
       (1) Metrics and milestones for meeting the conditions 
     described in subsection (b)(2)(C) of such section 1642.
       (2) Identification of any challenges to meeting such 
     conditions.
       (3) Using data and support from the Director of Cost 
     Assessment and Program Evaluation, in consultation with the 
     Commander of the United States Cyber Command and the Director 
     of the National Security Agency, identification of the costs 
     that may be incurred in the effort to meet such conditions.
       (4) Identification of entities or persons requiring 
     additional resources as a result of any decision to terminate 
     the dual-hat arrangement.
       (5) Identification of any updates to statutory authorities 
     needed as a result of any decision to terminate the dual-hat 
     arrangement.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees;
       (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (3) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives.

                    PART II--CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION

     SEC. 1649. CYBER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.

       (a) Name of Program.--Section 2200 of title 10, Unites 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(c) Name of Program.--The programs authorized under this 
     chapter shall be known as the `Cyber Scholarship Program'.''.
       (b) Modification to Allocation of Funding for Cyber 
     Scholarship Program.--Section 2200a(f) of title 10, Unites 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Not less''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) Not less than five percent of the amount available 
     for financial assistance under this section for a fiscal year 
     shall be available for providing financial assistance for the 
     pursuit of an associate degree at an institution described in 
     paragraph (1).''.
       (c) Cyber Definition.--Section 2200e of title 10, Unites 
     States Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 2200e. Definitions

       ``In this chapter:
       ``(1) The term `cyber' includes the following:
       ``(A) Offensive cyber operations.
       ``(B) Defensive cyber operations.
       ``(C) Department of Defense information network operations 
     and defense.
       ``(D) Any other information technology that the Secretary 
     of Defense considers to be related to the cyber activities of 
     the Department of Defense.
       ``(2) The term `institution of higher education' has the 
     meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education 
     Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
       ``(3) The term `Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber 
     Education' means an institution of higher education that is 
     designated by the Director of the National Security Agency as 
     a Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Education.''.
       (d) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) Chapter 112 of title 10, United States Code, is further 
     amended--
       (A) in the chapter heading, by striking ``INFORMATION 
     SECURITY'' and inserting ``CYBER'';
       (B) in section 2200 (as amended by subsection (a))--
       (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``Department of Defense 
     information assurance requirements'' and inserting ``the 
     cyber requirements of the Department of Defense''; and
       (ii) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``information 
     assurance'' and inserting ``cyber disciplines'';
       (C) in section 2200a (as amended by subsection (b))--
       (i) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``an information 
     assurance discipline'' and inserting ``a cyber discipline'';
       (ii) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``information 
     assurance'' and inserting ``cyber disciplines''; and
       (iii) in subsection (g)(1), by striking ``an information 
     technology position'' and inserting ``a cyber position'';
       (D) in section 2200b, by striking ``information assurance 
     disciplines'' and inserting ``cyber disciplines'';
       (E) in the heading of section 2200c, by striking 
     ``Information Assurance'' and inserting ``Cyber''; and
       (F) in section 2200c, by striking ``Information Assurance'' 
     each place it appears and inserting ``Cyber''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 112 
     of title 10, Unites States Code, is amended by striking the 
     item relating to section 2200c and inserting the following:

``2200c. Centers of Academic Excellence in Cyber Education.''.
       (3) Section 7045 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking ``Information Security Scholarship 
     program'' each place it appears and inserting ``Cyber 
     Scholarship program''; and
       (B) in subsection (a)(2)(B), by striking ``information 
     assurance'' and inserting ``a cyber discipline''.
       (4) Section 7904(4) of title 38, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``Information Assurance'' and inserting 
     ``Cyber''.
       (e) Redesignations.--
       (1) Scholarship program.--The Information Security 
     Scholarship program under chapter 112 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is redesignated as the ``Cyber Scholarship 
     program''. Any reference in a law (other than this section), 
     map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the 
     United States to the Information Security Scholarship program 
     shall be deemed to be a reference to the Cyber Scholarship 
     Program.
       (2) Centers of academic excellence.--Any institution of 
     higher education designated by the Director of the National 
     Security Agency as a Center of Academic Excellence in 
     Information Assurance Education is redesignated as a Center 
     of Academic Excellence in Cyber Education. Any reference in a 
     law (other than this section), map, regulation, document, 
     paper, or other record of the United States to a Center of 
     Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education shall 
     be deemed to be a reference to a Center of Academic 
     Excellence in Cyber Education.
       (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated to the Secretary of Defense to provide 
     financial assistance under section 2200a of title 10, United 
     States Code (as amended by this section), and grants under 
     section 2200b of such title (as so amended), $10,000,000 for 
     fiscal year 2018.

     SEC. 1649A. COMMUNITY COLLEGE CYBER PILOT PROGRAM AND 
                   ASSESSMENT.

       (a) Pilot Program.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this subtitle, as part of the Federal Cyber 
     Scholarship-for-Service program established under section 302 
     of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 
     7442), the Director of the National Science Foundation, in 
     coordination with the Director of the Office of Personnel 
     Management, shall develop and implement a pilot program at 
     not more than 10, but at least 5, community colleges to 
     provide scholarships to eligible students who--

[[Page H8832]]

       (1) are pursuing associate degrees or specialized program 
     certifications in the field of cybersecurity; and
       (2)(A) have bachelor's degrees; or
       (B) are veterans of the Armed Forces.
       (b) Assessment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this subtitle, as part of the Federal Cyber 
     Scholarship-for-Service program established under section 302 
     of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 
     7442), the Director of the National Science Foundation, in 
     coordination with the Director of the Office of Personnel 
     Management, shall assess the potential benefits and 
     feasibility of providing scholarships through community 
     colleges to eligible students who are pursuing associate 
     degrees, but do not have bachelor's degrees.

     SEC. 1649B. FEDERAL CYBER SCHOLARSHIP-FOR-SERVICE PROGRAM 
                   UPDATES.

       (a) In General.--Section 302 of the Cybersecurity 
     Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7442) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
       ``(3) prioritize the employment placement of at least 80 
     percent of scholarship recipients in an executive agency (as 
     defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code); and
       ``(4) provide awards to improve cybersecurity education at 
     the kindergarten through grade 12 level--
       ``(A) to increase interest in cybersecurity careers;
       ``(B) to help students practice correct and safe online 
     behavior and understand the foundational principles of 
     cybersecurity;
       ``(C) to improve teaching methods for delivering 
     cybersecurity content for kindergarten through grade 12 
     computer science curricula; and
       ``(D) to promote teacher recruitment in the field of 
     cybersecurity.'';
       (2) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
       ``(d) Post-award Employment Obligations.--Each scholarship 
     recipient, as a condition of receiving a scholarship under 
     the program, shall enter into an agreement under which the 
     recipient agrees to work for a period equal to the length of 
     the scholarship, following receipt of the student's degree, 
     in the cybersecurity mission of--
       ``(1) an executive agency (as defined in section 105 of 
     title 5, United States Code);
       ``(2) Congress, including any agency, entity, office, or 
     commission established in the legislative branch;
       ``(3) an interstate agency;
       ``(4) a State, local, or Tribal government; or
       ``(5) a State, local, or Tribal government-affiliated non-
     profit that is considered to be critical infrastructure (as 
     defined in section 1016(e) of the USA Patriot Act (42 U.S.C. 
     5195c(e)).'';
       (3) in subsection (f)--
       (A) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
       ``(3) have demonstrated a high level of competency in 
     relevant knowledge, skills, and abilities, as defined by the 
     national cybersecurity awareness and education program under 
     section 401;''; and
       (B) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
       ``(4) be a full-time student in an eligible degree program 
     at a qualified institution of higher education, as determined 
     by the Director of the National Science Foundation, except 
     that in the case of a student who is enrolled in a community 
     college, be a student pursuing a degree on a less than full-
     time basis, but not less than half-time basis; and''; and
       (4) by amending subsection (m) to read as follows:
       ``(m) Public Information.--
       ``(1) Evaluation.--The Director of the National Science 
     Foundation, in coordination with the Director of the Office 
     of Personnel Management, shall periodically evaluate and make 
     public, in a manner that protects the personally identifiable 
     information of scholarship recipients, information on the 
     success of recruiting individuals for scholarships under this 
     section and on hiring and retaining those individuals in the 
     public sector cyber workforce, including information on--
       ``(A) placement rates;
       ``(B) where students are placed, including job titles and 
     descriptions;
       ``(C) salary ranges for students not released from 
     obligations under this section;
       ``(D) how long after graduation students are placed;
       ``(E) how long students stay in the positions they enter 
     upon graduation;
       ``(F) how many students are released from obligations; and
       ``(G) what, if any, remedial training is required.
       ``(2) Reports.--The Director of the National Science 
     Foundation, in coordination with the Office of Personnel 
     Management, shall submit, not less frequently than once every 
     3 years, to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a 
     report, including the results of the evaluation under 
     paragraph (1) and any recent statistics regarding the size, 
     composition, and educational requirements of the Federal 
     cyber workforce.
       ``(3) Resources.--The Director of the National Science 
     Foundation, in coordination with the Director of the Office 
     of Personnel Management, shall provide consolidated and user-
     friendly online resources for prospective scholarship 
     recipients, including, to the extent practicable--
       ``(A) searchable, up-to-date, and accurate information 
     about participating institutions of higher education and job 
     opportunities related to the field of cybersecurity; and
       ``(B) a modernized description of cybersecurity careers.''.
       (b) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section, or an 
     amendment made by this section, shall affect any agreement, 
     scholarship, loan, or repayment, under section 302 of the 
     Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7442), in 
     effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
     subtitle.

     SEC. 1649C. CYBERSECURITY TEACHING.

       Section 10(i) of the National Science Foundation 
     Authorization Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 1862n-1(i)) is amended--
       (1) by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
       ``(5) the term `mathematics and science teacher' means a 
     science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or computer 
     science, including cybersecurity, teacher at the elementary 
     school or secondary school level;''; and
       (2) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
       ``(7) the term `science, technology, engineering, or 
     mathematics professional' means an individual who holds a 
     baccalaureate, master's, or doctoral degree in science, 
     technology, engineering, mathematics, or computer science, 
     including cybersecurity, and is working in or had a career in 
     such field or a related area; and''.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

     SEC. 1651. ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF CYBER RESILIENCY OF NUCLEAR 
                   COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 24 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 499. Annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear 
       command and control system

       ``(a) In General.--Not less frequently than annually, the 
     Commander of the United States Strategic Command and the 
     Commander of the United States Cyber Command (in this section 
     referred to collectively as the `Commanders') shall jointly 
     conduct an assessment of the cyber resiliency of the nuclear 
     command and control system.
       ``(b) Elements.--In conducting the assessment required by 
     subsection (a), the Commanders shall--
       ``(1) conduct an assessment of the sufficiency and 
     resiliency of the nuclear command and control system to 
     operate through a cyber attack from the Russian Federation, 
     the People's Republic of China, or any other country or 
     entity the Commanders identify as a potential threat; and
       ``(2) develop recommendations for mitigating any concerns 
     of the Commanders resulting from the assessment.
       ``(c) Report Required.--(1) The Commanders shall jointly 
     submit to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, for 
     submission to the Council on Oversight of the National 
     Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System 
     established under section 171a of this title, a report on the 
     assessment required by subsection (a) that includes the 
     following:
       ``(A) The recommendations developed under subsection 
     (b)(2).
       ``(B) A statement of the degree of confidence of each of 
     the Commanders in the mission assurance of the nuclear 
     deterrent against a top tier cyber threat.
       ``(C) A detailed description of the approach used to 
     conduct the assessment required by subsection (a) and the 
     technical basis of conclusions reached in conducting that 
     assessment.
       ``(D) Any other comments of the Commanders.
       ``(2) The Council shall submit to the Secretary of Defense 
     the report required by paragraph (1) and any comments of the 
     Council on the report.
       ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the report required by 
     paragraph (1), any comments of the Council on the report 
     under paragraph (2), and any comments of the Secretary on the 
     report.
       ``(d) Quarterly Briefings.--Not less than once every 
     quarter, the Deputy Secretary of Defense and the Vice 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly provide 
     to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a briefing on any known or 
     suspected critical intelligence parameter breaches that were 
     identified during the previous quarter, including an 
     assessment of any known or suspected impacts of such breaches 
     to the mission effectiveness of military capabilities as of 
     the date of the briefing or thereafter.
       ``(e) Termination.--The requirements of this section shall 
     terminate on December 31, 2027.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     24 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 498 the following new item:

``499. Annual assessment of cyber resiliency of nuclear command and 
              control system.''.

     SEC. 1652. COLLECTION, STORAGE, AND SHARING OF DATA RELATING 
                   TO NUCLEAR SECURITY ENTERPRISE.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 24 of title 10, United States 
     Code, as amended by section 1651, is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 499a. Collection, storage, and sharing of data 
       relating to nuclear security enterprise and nuclear forces

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
     the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, and 
     the Administrator for Nuclear Security, acting through the 
     Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation, shall 
     collect and store cost, programmatic, and technical data 
     relating to programs and projects of the nuclear security 
     enterprise and nuclear forces.
       ``(b) Sharing of Data.--If the Director of Cost Assessment 
     and Program Evaluation or the

[[Page H8833]]

     Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation requests 
     data relating to programs or projects from any element of the 
     Department of Defense or from any element of the nuclear 
     security enterprise of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration, that element shall provide that data in a 
     timely manner.
       ``(c) Storage of Data.--(1) Data collected by the Director 
     of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation and the Director 
     for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation under this section 
     shall be--
       ``(A) stored in the data storage system of the Defense Cost 
     and Resource Center, or successor center, or in a data 
     storage system of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration that is comparable to the data storage system 
     of the Defense Cost and Resource Center; and
       ``(B) made accessible to other Federal agencies as such 
     Directors consider appropriate.
       ``(2) The Secretary and the Administrator shall ensure that 
     the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation and 
     the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation have 
     sufficient information system support, as determined by such 
     Directors, to facilitate the timely hosting, handling, and 
     sharing of data relating to programs and projects of the 
     nuclear security enterprise under this section at the 
     appropriate level of classification.
       ``(3) The Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors of the 
     National Nuclear Security Administration may coordinate with 
     the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation and 
     the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation to 
     ensure that, at the discretion of the Deputy Administrator, 
     data relating to programs and projects of the Office of Naval 
     Reactors are correctly represented in the data storage system 
     pursuant to paragraph (1)(A).
       ``(d) Contract Requirements.--The Secretary and the 
     Administrator shall ensure that any relevant contract 
     relating to a program or project of the nuclear security 
     enterprise and nuclear forces that is entered into on or 
     after the date of the enactment of this section appropriately 
     includes--
       ``(1) requirements and standards for data collection; and
       ``(2) requirements for reporting on cost, programmatic, and 
     technical data using procedures, standards, and formats 
     approved by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation and the Director for Cost Estimating and Program 
     Evaluation.
       ``(e) Nuclear Security Enterprise Defined.--In this 
     section, the term `nuclear security enterprise' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 4002 of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     24 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 499, as added by section 1651, the 
     following new item:

``499a. Collection, storage, and sharing of data relating to nuclear 
              security enterprise and nuclear forces.''.

     SEC. 1653. NOTIFICATIONS REGARDING DUAL-CAPABLE F-35A 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       Section 179(f) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new 
     paragraph (6):
       ``(6) If a House of Congress adopts a bill authorizing or 
     appropriating funds for the Department of Defense that, as 
     determined by the Council, provides funds in an amount that 
     will result in a delay in the nuclear certification or 
     delivery of F-35A dual-capable aircraft, the Council shall 
     notify the congressional defense committees of the 
     determination.''.

     SEC. 1654. OVERSIGHT OF DELAYED ACQUISITION PROGRAMS BY 
                   COUNCIL ON OVERSIGHT OF THE NATIONAL LEADERSHIP 
                   COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.

       (a) Status Updates.--
       (1) In general.--Section 171a of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (A) by redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (l); and
       (B) by inserting after subsection (j) the following new 
     subsection (k):
       ``(k) Status of Acquisition Programs.--(1) On a quarterly 
     basis, each program manager of a covered acquisition program 
     shall transmit to the co-chairs of the Council, acting 
     through the senior steering group of the Council, a report 
     that identifies--
       ``(A) the covered acquisition program;
       ``(B) the requirements of the program;
       ``(C) the development timeline of the program; and
       ``(D) the status of the program, including whether the 
     program is delayed and, if so, whether such delay will result 
     in a program schedule delay.
       ``(2) Not later than seven days after the end of each 
     semiannual period, the co-chairs of the Council shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report that 
     identifies, with respect to the reports transmitted to the 
     Council under paragraph (1) for the two quarters in such 
     period--
       ``(A) each covered acquisition program that is delayed more 
     than 180 days; and
       ``(B) any covered acquisition program that should have been 
     included in such reports but was excluded, and the reasons 
     for such exclusion.
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `covered acquisition 
     program' means each acquisition program of the Department of 
     Defense that materially contributes to--
       ``(A) the nuclear command, control, and communications 
     systems of the United States; or
       ``(B) the continuity of government systems of the United 
     States.''.
       (2) Instructions.--The Secretary of Defense shall issue a 
     Department of Defense Instruction, or revise such an 
     Instruction, to ensure that program managers carry out 
     subsection (k)(1) of section 171a of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by paragraph (1).
       (b) Execution and Programmatic Oversight.--
       (1) Database.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer of 
     the Department of Defense, as Executive Secretary of the 
     Council on Oversight of the National Leadership Command, 
     Control, and Communications System established under section 
     171a of title 10, United States Code (or a successor to the 
     Chief Information Officer assigned responsibility for policy, 
     oversight, guidance, and coordination for nuclear command and 
     control systems), shall, in coordination with the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, develop 
     a database relating to the execution of all nuclear command, 
     control, and communications acquisition programs of the 
     Department of Defense with an approved Materiel Development 
     Decision. The database shall be updated not less frequently 
     than annually and upon completion of a major program element 
     of such a program.
       (2) Database elements.--The database required by paragraph 
     (1) shall include, at a minimum, the following elements for 
     each program described in that paragraph, consistent with 
     Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02:
       (A) Projected dates for Milestones A, B, and C, including 
     cost thresholds and objectives for major elements of life 
     cycle cost.
       (B) Projected dates for program design reviews and critical 
     design reviews.
       (C) Projected dates for developmental and operation tests.
       (D) Projected dates for initial operational capability and 
     final operational capability.
       (E) An acquisition program baseline.
       (F) Program acquisition unit cost and average procurement 
     unit cost.
       (G) Contract type.
       (H) Key performance parameters.
       (I) Key system attributes.
       (J) A risk register.
       (K) Technology readiness levels.
       (L) Manufacturing readiness levels.
       (M) Integration readiness levels.
       (N) Any other critical elements that affect the stability 
     of the program.
       (3) Briefings.--The co-chairs of the Council on Oversight 
     of the National Leadership Command, Control, and 
     Communications System shall brief the congressional defense 
     committees on the status of the database required by 
     paragraph (1)--
       (A) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act; and
       (B) upon completion of the database.

     SEC. 1655. ESTABLISHMENT OF NUCLEAR COMMAND AND CONTROL 
                   INTELLIGENCE FUSION CENTER.

       (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Director of National Intelligence shall jointly establish 
     an intelligence fusion center to effectively integrate and 
     unify the protection of nuclear command, control, and 
     communications programs, systems, and processes and 
     continuity of government programs, systems, and processes.
       (b) Charter.--In establishing the fusion center under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary and the Director shall develop 
     a charter for the fusion center that includes the following:
       (1) To carry out the duties of the fusion center, a 
     description of--
       (A) the roles and responsibilities of officials and 
     elements of the Federal Government, including a detailed 
     description of the organizational relationships of such 
     officials and the elements of the Federal Government that are 
     key stakeholders;
       (B) the organization reporting chain of the fusion center;
       (C) the staffing of the fusion center;
       (D) the processes of the fusion center; and
       (E) how the fusion center integrates with other elements of 
     the Federal Government.
       (2) The management and administration processes required to 
     carry out the fusion center, including with respect to 
     facilities and security authorities.
       (3) Procedures to ensure that the appropriate number of 
     staff of the fusion center have the security clearance 
     necessary to access information on the programs, systems, and 
     processes that relate, either wholly or substantially, to 
     nuclear command, control, and communications or continuity of 
     government, including with respect to both the programs, 
     systems, and processes that are designated as special access 
     programs (as described in section 4.3 of Executive Order 
     13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note) or any successor Executive order) 
     and the programs, systems, and processes that contain 
     sensitive compartmented information.
       (c) Coordination.--In establishing the fusion center under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary and the Director shall 
     coordinate with the elements of the Federal Government that 
     the Secretary and Director determine appropriate.
       (d) Reports.--
       (1) Initial report.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Director 
     shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report containing--
       (A) the charter for the fusion center developed under 
     subsection (b); and
       (B) a plan on the budget and staffing of the fusion center.
       (2) Annual reports.--At the same time as the President 
     submits to Congress the annual budget request under section 
     1105 of title 31, United States Code, for fiscal year 2019 
     and each fiscal

[[Page H8834]]

     year thereafter, the Secretary and the Director shall submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
     fusion center, including, with respect to the period covered 
     by the report--
       (A) any updates to the plan on the budget and staffing of 
     the fusion center;
       (B) any updates to the charter developed under subsection 
     (b); and
       (C) a summary of the activities and accomplishments of the 
     fusion center.
       (3) Sunset.--No report is required under this subsection 
     after December 31, 2021.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.

     SEC. 1656. SECURITY OF NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
                   COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM FROM COMMERCIAL 
                   DEPENDENCIES.

       (a) Certification.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     certify to the congressional defense committees whether the 
     Secretary uses covered telecommunications equipment or 
     services as a substantial or essential component of any 
     system, or as critical technology as part of any system, to 
     carry out--
       (1) the nuclear deterrence mission of the Department of 
     Defense, including with respect to nuclear command, control, 
     and communications, integrated tactical warning and attack 
     assessment, and continuity of government; or
       (2) the homeland defense mission of the Department, 
     including with respect to ballistic missile defense.
       (b) Prohibition and Mitigation.--
       (1) Prohibition.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), 
     beginning on the date that is one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense may not 
     procure or obtain, or extend or renew a contract to procure 
     or obtain, any equipment, system, or service to carry out the 
     missions described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection 
     (a) that uses covered telecommunications equipment or 
     services as a substantial or essential component of any 
     system, or as critical technology as part of any system.
       (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the prohibition in 
     paragraph (1) on a case-by-case basis for a single one-year 
     period if the Secretary--
       (A) determines such waiver to be in the national security 
     interests of the United States; and
       (B) certifies to the congressional committees that--
       (i) there are sufficient mitigations in place to guarantee 
     the ability of the Secretary to carry out the missions 
     described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a); and
       (ii) the Secretary is removing the use of covered 
     telecommunications equipment or services in carrying out such 
     missions.
       (3) Delegation.--The Secretary may not delegate the 
     authority to make a waiver under paragraph (2) to any 
     official other than the Deputy Secretary of Defense or the 
     co-chairs of the Council on Oversight of the National 
     Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System 
     established by section 171a of title 10, United States Code.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, 
     United States Code.
       (2) The term ``covered foreign country'' means any of the 
     following:
       (A) The People's Republic of China.
       (B) The Russian Federation.
       (3) The term ``covered telecommunications equipment or 
     services'' means any of the following:
       (A) Telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei 
     Technologies Company or ZTE Corporation (or any subsidiary or 
     affiliate of such entities).
       (B) Telecommunications services provided by such entities 
     or using such equipment.
       (C) Telecommunications equipment or services produced or 
     provided by an entity that the Secretary of Defense 
     reasonably believes to be an entity owned or controlled by, 
     or otherwise connected to, the government of a covered 
     foreign country.

     SEC. 1657. OVERSIGHT OF AERIAL-LAYER PROGRAMS BY COUNCIL ON 
                   OVERSIGHT OF THE NATIONAL LEADERSHIP COMMAND, 
                   CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.

       Any analysis of alternatives for the Senior Leader Airborne 
     Operations Center, the executive airlift program of the Air 
     Force, and the E-6B modernization program may not receive 
     final approval by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council, 
     and the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
     may not conduct any sufficiency review of such an analysis of 
     alternatives, unless--
       (1) the Council on Oversight of the National Leadership 
     Command, Control, and Communications System established by 
     section 171a of title 10, United States Code, determines that 
     the alternatives for such programs are capable of meeting the 
     requirements for senior leadership communications in support 
     of the nuclear command, control, and communications mission 
     of the Department of Defense and the continuity of government 
     mission of the Department;
       (2) the Council submits to the congressional defense 
     committees such determination; and
       (3) a period of 30 days elapses following the date of such 
     submission.

     SEC. 1658. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION GUIDE FOR PROGRAMS 
                   RELATING TO NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND NUCLEAR DETERRENCE.

       (a) Requirement for Security Classification Guide.--Not 
     later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of Defense shall require the issuance of a 
     security classification guide for each covered program to 
     ensure the protection of sensitive information from public 
     disclosure.
       (b) Requirements.--Each security classification guide 
     issued pursuant to subsection (a) shall be--
       (1) approved by--
       (A) the Council on Oversight of the National Leadership 
     Command, Control, and Communications System with respect to 
     covered programs under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection 
     (c); or
       (B) the Nuclear Weapons Council with respect to covered 
     programs under paragraph (3) of such subsection; and
       (2) issued not later than March 19, 2019, with respect to a 
     covered program in existence as of such date.
       (c) Annual Notifications.--On an annual basis during the 
     three-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, without 
     delegation, shall notify the congressional defense committees 
     of the status of implementing subsection (a), including a 
     description of any challenges to such implementation.
       (d) Exclusion.--This section shall not apply with respect 
     to restricted data covered by chapter 12 of the Atomic Energy 
     Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2161 et seq.).
       (e) Covered Program Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered program'' means programs of the Department of 
     Defense in existence on or after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act relating to any of the following:
       (1) Continuity of government.
       (2) Nuclear command, control, and communications.
       (3) Nuclear deterrence.

     SEC. 1659. EVALUATION AND ENHANCED SECURITY OF SUPPLY CHAIN 
                   FOR NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT 
                   PROGRAMS.

       (a) Evaluations of Supply Chain Vulnerabilities.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2019, and in 
     accordance with the plan under paragraph (2)(A), the 
     Secretary of Defense shall conduct evaluations of the supply 
     chain vulnerabilities of each covered program.
       (2) Plan.--
       (A) Development.--The Secretary shall develop a plan to 
     carry out the evaluations under paragraph (1), including with 
     respect to the personnel and resources required to carry out 
     such evaluations.
       (B) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the plan under subparagraph 
     (A).
       (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive, on a case-by-case 
     basis with respect to a weapons system, a program, or a 
     system of systems, of a covered program, either the 
     requirement to conduct an evaluation under paragraph (1) or 
     the deadline specified in such paragraph if the Secretary 
     certifies to the congressional defense committees before such 
     date that all known supply chain vulnerabilities of such 
     weapons system, program, or system of systems have minimal 
     consequences for the capability of such weapons system, 
     program, or system of systems to meet operational 
     requirements or otherwise satisfy mission requirements.
       (4) Risk mitigation strategies.--In carrying out an 
     evaluation under paragraph (1) with respect to a covered 
     program specified in subparagraph (B) or (C) of subsection 
     (c)(2), the Secretary shall develop strategies for mitigating 
     the risks of supply chain vulnerabilities identified in the 
     course of such evaluation.
       (b) Prioritization of Certain Supply Chain Risk Management 
     Efforts.--
       (1) Instructions.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a 
     Department of Defense Instruction, or update such an 
     Instruction, establishing the prioritization of supply chain 
     risk management programs, including supply chain risk 
     management threat assessment reporting, to ensure that 
     acquisition and sustainment programs relating to covered 
     programs receive the highest priority of such supply chain 
     risk management programs and reporting.
       (2) Requirements.--
       (A) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish 
     requirements to carry out supply chain risk management threat 
     assessment collections and analyses under acquisition and 
     sustainment programs relating to covered programs.
       (B) Submission.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees the requirements 
     established under subparagraph (A).
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.
       (2) The term ``covered programs'' means programs relating 
     to any of the following:
       (A) Nuclear weapons.
       (B) Nuclear command, control, and communications.
       (C) Continuity of government.
       (D) Ballistic missile defense.

     SEC. 1660. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PARTS OF 
                   INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE FUZES.

       (a) Availability of Funds.--Notwithstanding section 1502(a) 
     of title 31, United States Code, of the amount authorized to 
     be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 by section 101 and

[[Page H8835]]

     available for Missile Procurement, Air Force, as specified in 
     the funding table in division D, $6,334,000 shall be 
     available for the procurement of covered parts pursuant to 
     contracts entered into under section 1645(a) of the Carl 
     Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3651).
       (b) Covered Parts Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered parts'' means commercially available off-the-shelf 
     items as defined in section 104 of title 41, United States 
     Code.

     SEC. 1661. PRESIDENTIAL NATIONAL VOICE CONFERENCING SYSTEM 
                   AND PHOENIX AIR-TO-GROUND COMMUNICATIONS 
                   NETWORK.

       (a) Consolidation of Elements.--
       (1) PNVCS.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, all program elements and funding for 
     the Presidential National Voice Conferencing System shall be 
     transferred to the Program Executive Office with 
     responsibility for the Family of Advanced Beyond Line-of-
     Sight Terminals program. The Program Executive Office shall 
     be responsible for approving all such program elements, 
     requests for funding, and contract actions (including 
     regarding contract line items) relating to the Presidential 
     National Voice Conferencing System.
       (2) PAGCN.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, all program elements and funding for 
     the Phoenix Air-to-Ground Communications Network shall be 
     transferred to the Program Executive Office with 
     responsibility for the nuclear command, control, and 
     communications systems of the United States. The Program 
     Executive Office shall be responsible for approving all such 
     program elements, requests for funding, and contract actions 
     (including regarding contract line items) relating to the 
     Phoenix Air-to-Ground Communications Network.
       (b) Selected Acquisition Reports.--Commencing not later 
     than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     the Presidential National Voice Conferencing System and the 
     Phoenix Air-to-Ground Communications Network shall each be 
     deemed to be a program for which a Selected Acquisition 
     Report is required pursuant to section 2432 of title 10, 
     United States Code.

     SEC. 1662. LIMITATION ON PURSUIT OF CERTAIN COMMAND AND 
                   CONTROL CONCEPT.

       (a) Limitation on Command and Control Concept.--The 
     Secretary of the Air Force may not award a contract for 
     engineering and manufacturing development for the ground-
     based strategic deterrent program that would result in a 
     command and control concept for such program that consists of 
     less than 15 fixed launch control centers per missile wing 
     unless the Commander of the United States Strategic Command--
       (1) determines that--
       (A) the plans of the Secretary of the Air Force for a 
     command and control concept consisting of less than 15 fixed 
     launch control centers per missile wing are appropriate, meet 
     requirements, and do not contain excessive risk;
       (B) the risks to schedules and costs from such concept are 
     minimized and manageable;
       (C) the strategy and plan of the Secretary of the Air Force 
     for addressing cyber threats for such concept are robust; and
       (D) with respect to such concept, the Secretary of the Air 
     Force has established an appropriate process for considering 
     and managing trade-offs among requirements relating to 
     survivability, long-term operations and sustainment costs, 
     procurement costs, and military personnel needs; and
       (2) submits, in writing, to the Secretary of Defense and 
     the congressional defense committees such determination.
       (b) Inability to Make Determination.--If the Secretary of 
     the Air Force proposes to award a contract specified in 
     subsection (a) and the Commander is unable to make the 
     determination under such subsection, the Commander shall 
     submit, in writing, to the Secretary of Defense and the 
     congressional defense committees the reasons for not making 
     such determination.
       (c) No Effect on Competition.--Nothing in subsection (a) or 
     (b) shall be construed to affect or prohibit the ability of 
     the Secretary of the Air Force to use fair and open 
     competition procedures in soliciting, evaluating, and 
     awarding contracts for the ground-based strategic deterrent 
     program.

     SEC. 1663. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR MOBILE 
                   VARIANT OF GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT 
                   MISSILE.

       Section 1664 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2615) is 
     amended by striking ``or 2018'' and inserting ``through 
     2019''.

     SEC. 1664. PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION OF THE INTERCONTINENTAL 
                   BALLISTIC MISSILES OF THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided by subsection (b), 
     none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for the 
     Department of Defense shall be obligated or expended for--
       (1) reducing, or preparing to reduce, the responsiveness or 
     alert level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the 
     United States; or
       (2) reducing, or preparing to reduce, the quantity of 
     deployed intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United 
     States to a number less than 400.
       (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not 
     apply to any of the following activities:
       (1) The maintenance or sustainment of intercontinental 
     ballistic missiles.
       (2) Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of 
     intercontinental ballistic missiles.
       (3) Reduction in the number of deployed intercontinental 
     ballistic missiles that are carried out in compliance with--
       (A) the limitations of the New START Treaty (as defined in 
     section 494(a)(2)(D) of title 10, United States Code); and
       (B) section 1644 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3651; 10 U.S.C. 494 
     note).

     SEC. 1665. MODIFICATION TO ANNUAL REPORT ON PLAN FOR THE 
                   NUCLEAR WEAPONS STOCKPILE, NUCLEAR WEAPONS 
                   COMPLEX, NUCLEAR WEAPONS DELIVERY SYSTEMS, AND 
                   NUCLEAR WEAPONS COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.

       Subsection (a)(2)(F) of section 1043 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
     112-81; 125 Stat. 1576), as most recently amended by section 
     1643 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
     113-291; 128 Stat. 3650), is further amended by inserting 
     after the period at the end the following: ``The Secretary 
     may include information and data for a period beyond such 10-
     year period if the Secretary determines that such information 
     and data is accurate and useful in understanding the long-
     term nuclear modernization plan.''.

     SEC. 1666. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF 
                   NUCLEAR ENTERPRISE REVIEW.

       (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     issue a final Department of Defense Instruction establishing 
     procedures for the long-term implementation of the 
     recommendations contained in the Independent Review of the 
     Department of Defense Nuclear Enterprise, dated June 2, 2014, 
     and the Internal Assessment of the Department of Defense 
     Nuclear Enterprise, dated September 2014.
       (b) Submission.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the final instruction under 
     subsection (a) by not later than 30 days after issuing the 
     instruction.

     SEC. 1667. REPORT ON IMPACTS OF NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) nuclear proliferation continues to be a serious threat 
     to the security of the United States;
       (2) it is critical for the United States to understand the 
     impacts of nuclear proliferation and ensure the necessary 
     policies and resources are in place to prevent the 
     proliferation of nuclear materials and weapons;
       (3) effectively addressing the danger of states and non-
     state actors acquiring nuclear weapons or nuclear-weapons-
     usable material should be a clear priority for United States 
     national security; and
       (4) Secretary of Defense James Mattis testified before 
     Congress on June 12, 2017, that ``nuclear nonproliferation 
     has not received enough attention over quite a few years''.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report containing--
       (1) a description of the impacts of nuclear proliferation 
     on the security of the United States;
       (2) a description of how the Department of Defense is 
     contributing to the current strategy to respond to the threat 
     of nuclear proliferation, and what resources are being 
     applied to this effort, including whether there are any 
     funding gaps; and
       (3) if and how nuclear proliferation is being addressed in 
     the Nuclear Posture Review and other pertinent strategy 
     reviews.

     SEC. 1668. CERTIFICATION THAT THE NUCLEAR POSTURE REVIEW 
                   ADDRESSES DETERRENT EFFECT AND OPERATION OF 
                   UNITED STATES NUCLEAR FORCES IN CURRENT AND 
                   FUTURE SECURITY ENVIRONMENTS.

       (a) Certification Required.--Not later than 30 days after 
     completing the first Nuclear Posture Review after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     certification that the Nuclear Posture Review accounts for--
       (1) with respect to the nuclear capabilities of the United 
     States as of such date of enactment--
       (A) the ability of such capabilities to deter adversaries 
     of the United States that possess nuclear weapons or may 
     possess such weapons in the future;
       (B) the ability of the United States to operate in a major 
     regional conflict that involves nuclear weapons;
       (C) the ability and preparedness of forward-deployed 
     members of the Armed Forces to operate in a nuclear 
     environment; and
       (D) weapons, equipment, and training or conduct that would 
     improve the abilities described in subparagraphs (A), (B), 
     and (C);
       (2) with respect to the nuclear capabilities of the United 
     States projected over the 10-year period beginning on such 
     date of enactment--
       (A) the projected ability of such capabilities to deter 
     adversaries of the United States that possess nuclear weapons 
     or may possess such weapons in the future;
       (B) the projected ability of the United States to operate 
     in a major regional conflict that involves nuclear weapons;
       (C) the projected ability and preparedness of forward-
     deployed members of the Armed Forces to operate in a nuclear 
     environment; and
       (D) weapons, equipment, and training or conduct that would 
     improve the abilities described in subparagraphs (A), (B), 
     and (C); and
       (3) any actions that could be taken by the Secretary of 
     Defense or the Administrator for Nuclear Security in the near 
     and medium terms to decrease the risk posed by possible 
     additional changes to the security environment related to 
     nuclear weapons in the future.
       (b) Form.--The certification under subsection (a) may be 
     submitted in classified form.

[[Page H8836]]

  


     SEC. 1669. PLAN TO MANAGE INTEGRATED TACTICAL WARNING AND 
                   ATTACK ASSESSMENT SYSTEM AND MULTI-DOMAIN 
                   SENSORS.

       (a) Plan Required.--Not later than one year after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force 
     shall develop a plan to manage the Air Force missile warning 
     elements of the Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack 
     Assessment System as a weapon system consistent with Air 
     Force Policy Directive 10-9, entitled ``Lead Command 
     Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems'' and 
     dated March 8, 2007.
       (b) Multi-domain Sensor Management and Exploitation.--
       (1) In general.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
     include a long-term plan to manage all available sensors for 
     multi-domain exploitation against modern and emergent threats 
     in order to provide comprehensive support for integrated 
     tactical warning and attack assessment, missile defense, and 
     space situational awareness.
       (2) Coordination with other agencies.--In developing the 
     plan required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
       (A) coordinate with the Secretary of the Army, the 
     Secretary of the Navy, the Director of the Missile Defense 
     Agency, and the Director of the National Reconnaissance 
     Office; and
       (B) solicit comments on the plan, if any, from the 
     Commander of the United States Strategic Command and the 
     Commander of the United States Northern Command.
       (c) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 14 months after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees--
       (1) the plan required by subsection (a); and
       (2) the comments from the Commander of the United States 
     Strategic Command and the Commander of the United States 
     Northern Command, if any, on the plan required by subsection 
     (b)(1).

     SEC. 1670. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO 
                   STRATEGIC RADIATION HARDENED TRUSTED 
                   MICROELECTRONICS.

       Not later than December 31, 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     certification that an assured capability to produce or 
     acquire strategic radiation hardened trusted 
     microelectronics, consistent with Department of Defense 
     Instruction 5200.44, is operational and available to supply 
     necessary microelectronic components for necessary radiation 
     environments involved with the acquisition of delivery 
     systems for nuclear weapons.

     SEC. 1671. NUCLEAR POSTURE REVIEW.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the Nuclear Posture Review should--
       (1) take into account the obligations of the United States 
     under treaties ratified by and with the advice and consent of 
     the Senate;
       (2) examine the tools required to sustain the stockpile 
     stewardship program under section 4201 of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521) in the future to ensure the 
     safety, security, and effectiveness of the nuclear arsenal of 
     the United States; and
       (3) consider input and views from all relevant stakeholders 
     in the United States Government, including the Secretary of 
     Energy, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator for 
     Nuclear Security, on issues pertaining to nuclear deterrence, 
     nuclear nonproliferation, and nuclear arms control.
       (b) Availability.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
     that--
       (1) the Nuclear Posture Review is submitted, in its 
     entirety, to the President and the congressional defense 
     committees; and
       (2) an unclassified version of the Nuclear Posture Review 
     is made available to the public.

     SEC. 1672. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IMPORTANCE OF INDEPENDENT 
                   NUCLEAR DETERRENT OF UNITED KINGDOM.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) nuclear deterrence is foundational to the defense and 
     security of the United States and the security of the United 
     States is enhanced by a nuclear-armed ally with common values 
     and security priorities;
       (2) the United States sees the nuclear deterrent of the 
     United Kingdom as central to transatlantic security and 
     welcomes the commitment of the United Kingdom to the North 
     Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to continue to spend two 
     percent of gross domestic product on defense;
       (3) in the face of increasing threats, the presence of 
     credible nuclear deterrent forces of the United Kingdom is 
     essential to international stability and for NATO;
       (4) the commitment of the United Kingdom to sustaining an 
     independent nuclear deterrent, deployed continuously at sea, 
     provides a vital second decision-making point within the 
     deterrent capability of NATO, creating essential uncertainty 
     in the mind of any potential adversary;
       (5) the United States Navy must continue to execute the 
     Columbia-class submarine program on time and within budget to 
     ensure that the sea-based leg of the nuclear triad of the 
     United States is sustained and the program delivers a Common 
     Missile Compartment, the Trident II (D5) Strategic Weapon 
     System, and associated equipment and production capabilities, 
     to support the successful development and deployment of the 
     Dreadnought submarines of the United Kingdom;
       (6) the support that the United Kingdom provides to 
     deployments of strategic ships and aircraft of the United 
     States at specialized facilities enables a vital part of the 
     deterrence posture of the United States as well as mutual 
     deterrence of adversaries and assurance to the allies and 
     partners of the United States; and
       (7) the collaboration of the United Kingdom with the United 
     States on the military use of atomic energy ensures a peer in 
     the technology and science of nuclear weapons and provides 
     independent expert peer review of the nuclear programs of the 
     United States, ensuring resilience and cost effectiveness to 
     the nuclear defense programs of both nations.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

     SEC. 1676. ADMINISTRATION OF MISSILE DEFENSE AND DEFEAT 
                   PROGRAMS.

       (a) Major Force Program.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 239a. Missile defense and defeat programs: major force 
       program and budget assessment

       ``(a) Establishment of Major Force Program.--The Secretary 
     of Defense shall establish a unified major force program for 
     missile defense and defeat programs pursuant to section 
     222(b) of this title to prioritize missile defense and defeat 
     programs in accordance with the requirements of the 
     Department of Defense and national security.
       ``(b) Budget Assessment.--(1) The Secretary shall include 
     with the defense budget materials for each of fiscal years 
     2019 through 2023 a report on the budget for missile defense 
     and defeat programs of the Department of Defense.
       ``(2) Each report on the budget for missile defense and 
     defeat programs of the Department under paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       ``(A) An overview of the budget, including--
       ``(i) a comparison between that budget, the previous 
     budget, the most recent and prior future-years defense 
     program submitted to Congress under section 221 of this title 
     (such comparison shall exclude the responsibility for 
     research and development of the continuing improvement of 
     such missile defense and defeat program), and the amounts 
     appropriated for such missile defense and defeat programs 
     during the previous fiscal year; and
       ``(ii) the specific identification, as a budgetary line 
     item, for the funding under such programs.
       ``(B) An assessment of the budget, including significant 
     changes, priorities, challenges, and risks.
       ``(C) Any additional matters the Secretary determines 
     appropriate.
       ``(3) Each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `budget', with respect to a fiscal year, 
     means the budget for that fiscal year that is submitted to 
     Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31.
       ``(2) The term `defense budget materials', with respect to 
     a fiscal year, means the materials submitted to Congress by 
     the Secretary of Defense in support of the budget for that 
     fiscal year.
       ``(3) The term `missile defense and defeat programs' means 
     active and passive ballistic missile defense programs, cruise 
     missile defense programs for the homeland, and missile defeat 
     programs.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 239 the following new item:

``239a. Missile defense and defeat programs: major force program and 
              budget assessment.''.
       (b) Transition of Ballistic Missile Defense Programs to 
     Military Departments.--
       (1) Requirement.--Not later than the date on which the 
     budget of the President for fiscal year 2021 is submitted 
     under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall transfer the acquisition authority 
     and the total obligational authority for each missile defense 
     program described in paragraph (2) from the Missile Defense 
     Agency to a military department.
       (2) Missile defense program described.--A missile defense 
     program described in this paragraph is a missile defense 
     program of the Missile Defense Agency that, as of the date 
     specified in paragraph (1), has received Milestone C approval 
     (as defined in section 2366 of title 10, United States Code).
       (3) Report.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the plans of the Department of Defense for the transition of 
     missile defense programs from the Missile Defense Agency to 
     the military departments pursuant to paragraph (1).
       (B) Scope.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall cover 
     the period covered by the future-years defense program that 
     is submitted under section 221 of title 10, United States 
     Code, in the year in which such report is submitted.
       (C) Matters included.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
     shall include the following:
       (i) An identification of--

       (I) the missile defense programs planned to be transitioned 
     from the Missile Defense Agency to the military departments; 
     and
       (II) the missile defense programs, if any, not planned for 
     transition to the military departments.

       (ii) The schedule for transition of each missile defense 
     program planned to be transitioned to a military department, 
     and an explanation of such schedule.
       (iii) A description of--

       (I) the status of the plans of the Missile Defense Agency 
     and the military departments for the transition of missile 
     defense programs from that agency to the military 
     departments; and
       (II) the status of any agreement between the Missile 
     Defense Agency and one or more of the military departments on 
     the transition of any such program from that agency to the 
     military

[[Page H8837]]

     departments, including any agreement on the operational test 
     criteria that must be achieved before such transition.

       (iv) An identification of the element of the Department of 
     Defense (whether the Missile Defense Agency, a military 
     department, or both) that will be responsible for funding 
     each missile defense program to be transitioned to a military 
     department, and at what date.
       (v) A description of the type of funds that will be used 
     (whether funds for research, development, test, and 
     evaluation, procurement, military construction, or operation 
     and maintenance) for each missile defense program to be 
     transitioned to a military department.
       (vi) An explanation of the number of systems planned for 
     procurement for each missile defense program to be 
     transitioned to a military department, and the schedule for 
     procurement of each such system.
       (vii) A description of how the Missile Defense Agency will 
     continue the responsibility for the research and development 
     of improvements to missile defense programs.
       (c) Role of Missile Defense Agency.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 8 of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 205. Missile Defense Agency

       ``(a) Term of Director.--The Director of the Missile 
     Defense Agency shall be appointed for a six-year term.
       ``(b) Reporting.--The Missile Defense Agency shall be under 
     the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary 
     of Defense for Research and Engineering.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter II of such chapter is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new item:

``205. Missile Defense Agency.''.
       (3) Application.--
       (A) Terms.--Subsection (a) of section 205 of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply 
     the day following the date on which the present incumbent in 
     the office of the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, as 
     of the date of the enactment of this Act, ceases to serve as 
     such.
       (B) Reporting.--Subsection (b) of such section 205 shall 
     apply beginning on February 1, 2018. In carrying out such 
     subsection, the Missile Defense Agency shall be under the 
     authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Research and Engineering in the same manner as 
     the Missile Defense Agency was under the authority, 
     direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics pursuant to Department 
     of Defense Directive 5134.09. Any reference in such 
     Instruction to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
     and Engineering, including with respect to the Under 
     Secretary serving as the chairman of the Missile Defense 
     Executive Board.

     SEC. 1677. CONDITION FOR PROCEEDING BEYOND LOW-RATE INITIAL 
                   PRODUCTION.

       (a) Inclusion of Ballistic Missile Defense System.--Section 
     2399(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``or a covered designated major 
     subprogram'' and inserting ``, a covered designated major 
     subprogram, or an element of the ballistic missile defense 
     system''; and
       (2) by striking ``program or subprogram'' and inserting 
     ``program, subprogram, or element''.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Section 1662(e) of the Carl 
     Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     10 U.S.C. 2431 note) is amended by inserting before the 
     period at the end the following: ``, or to diminish the 
     authority of the Secretary of Defense to deploy a missile 
     defense system at the date on which the Secretary determines 
     appropriate''.

     SEC. 1678. PRESERVATION OF THE BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE 
                   CAPACITY OF THE ARMY.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 or any fiscal year thereafter for the Army 
     may be obligated or expended to demilitarize any GEM-T 
     interceptor or remove any such interceptor from the 
     operational inventory of the Army until the date on which the 
     Secretary of the Army submits to the congressional defense 
     committees the plan under subsection (b).
       (b) Plan.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Chief of Staff 
     of the Army shall jointly submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a plan to maintain an inventory of interceptors 
     necessary to retain the capability provided by GEM-T 
     interceptors, including the costs, milestones, and timelines 
     to carry out such plan.
       (c) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not 
     apply to activities that the Secretary determines are 
     critical to the safety of GEM-T interceptors.
       (d) GEM-T Interceptor Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``GEM-T interceptor'' means the Patriot guidance enhanced 
     missile TBM.

     SEC. 1679. MODERNIZATION OF ARMY LOWER TIER AIR AND MISSILE 
                   DEFENSE SENSOR.

       (a) Approval of Acquisition Strategy.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than September 15, 2018, the 
     Secretary of the Army shall issue an acquisition strategy for 
     a 360-degree lower tier air and missile defense sensor that 
     achieves initial operating capability by not later than 
     December 31, 2023.
       (2) Requirements.--The acquisition strategy under paragraph 
     (1) shall--
       (A) ensure the use of competitive procedures;
       (B) clearly describe the open-architecture design to be 
     used;
       (C) provide a comprehensive fielding plan that provides 
     360-degree lower tier air and missile defense sensor 
     capability to all units of the Army;
       (D) define the operation and sustainment cost savings of 
     the acquisition strategy and other acquisition options of the 
     Army;
       (E) identify any programmatic cost avoidance that could be 
     achieved through co-production, co-development, or foreign 
     military sales;
       (F) ensure the fielding of an interim gap-filler capability 
     to the highest priority forces (consisting of not less than 
     three battalions) for imminent threats; and
       (G) identify the estimated cost to field both the 360-
     degree lower tier air and missile defense sensor capability 
     and the interim capability pursuant to subparagraph (E).
       (3) Limitation.--If the Secretary of the Army does not 
     issue the acquisition strategy under subsection (a) by 
     September 15, 2018, none of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the lower tier air and missile defense 
     sensor of the Army that are unobligated as of such date may 
     be obligated or expended.
       (b) Conditional Transfer.--
       (1) MDA.--If the Secretary of the Army does not issue the 
     acquisition strategy under subsection (a) by September 15, 
     2018, the Secretary of Defense shall transfer from the 
     Secretary of the Army to the Director of the Missile Defense 
     Agency--
       (A) the responsibility to issue the acquisition strategy 
     described in subsection (a) by not later than August 15, 
     2019; and
       (B) the responsibility to implement such acquisition 
     strategy to procure a 360-degree lower tier air and missile 
     defense sensor.
       (2) Army.--If the Secretary of Defense carries out the 
     transfer under paragraph (1), after the 360-degree lower tier 
     air and missile defense sensor achieves Milestone B approval 
     (or equivalent), but before such sensor achieves Milestone C 
     approval (or equivalent), the Secretary of Defense shall 
     transfer from the Director of the Missile Defense Agency to 
     the Secretary of the Army the responsibility to procure such 
     sensor.
       (c) Definitions.--The terms ``Milestone B approval'' and 
     ``Milestone C approval'' have the meanings given those terms 
     in section 2366 of title 10, United States Code.

     SEC. 1680. DEFENSE OF HAWAII FROM NORTH KOREAN BALLISTIC 
                   MISSILE ATTACK.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) expanding persistent midcourse and terminal ballistic 
     missile defense system discrimination capability is 
     critically important to the defense of the United States; and
       (2) the Department of Defense should take all appropriate 
     steps to ensure Hawaii has missile defense coverage against 
     the evolving ballistic missile threat, including from North 
     Korea.
       (b) Sequenced Approach.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
       (1) protect the test and training operations of the Pacific 
     Missile Range Facility; and
       (2) assess the siting and functionality of a discrimination 
     radar for homeland defense throughout the Hawaiian Islands 
     before assessing the feasibility of improving the missile 
     defense of Hawaii by using existing missile defense assets 
     that could materially improve the defense of Hawaii.
       (c) Test.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     shall--
       (1) not later than December 31, 2020, conduct a test to 
     evaluate and demonstrate, if technologically feasible, the 
     capability to defeat a simple intercontinental ballistic 
     missile threat using the standard missile 3 block IIA missile 
     interceptor; and
       (2) as part of the integrated master test plan for the 
     ballistic missile defense system, develop a plan to 
     demonstrate a capability to defeat a complex intercontinental 
     ballistic missile threat, including a complex threat posed by 
     the intercontinental ballistic missiles of North Korea.
       (d) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report--
       (1) that indicates whether demonstrating an 
     intercontinental ballistic missile defense capability against 
     North Korean ballistic missiles by the standard missile 3 
     block IIA missile interceptor poses any risks to strategic 
     stability; and
       (2) if the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that 
     such demonstration poses such risks to strategic stability, a 
     description of the plan developed and implemented by the 
     Secretary to address and mitigate such risks, as determined 
     appropriate by the Secretary.

     SEC. 1681. DESIGNATION OF LOCATION OF CONTINENTAL UNITED 
                   STATES INTERCEPTOR SITE.

       If consistent with the direction or recommendations of the 
     Ballistic Missile Defense Review that commenced in 2017, not 
     later than 60 days after the date on which the Ballistic 
     Missile Defense Review is published, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall--
       (1) designate the preferred location of a potential 
     additional continental United States interceptor site;
       (2) in making such designation, consider--
       (A) strategic and operational effectiveness, including with 
     respect to the location that is the most advantageous site to 
     the continental United States, including by having the 
     capability to provide shoot-assess-shoot coverage to the 
     entire continental United States;
       (B) existing infrastructure at the location; and
       (C) costs to construct, equip, and operate; and
       (3) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     on the designation made under paragraph (1) with respect to 
     each factor specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of 
     such paragraph.

     SEC. 1682. AEGIS ASHORE ANTI-AIR WARFARE CAPABILITY.

       (a) Authorization.--Subject to the availability of funds 
     authorized to be appropriated

[[Page H8838]]

     by sections 101 and 201 of this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for procurement and research, 
     development, test, and evaluation, as specified in the 
     funding tables in division D, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     continue the development, procurement, and deployment of 
     anti-air warfare capabilities at each Aegis Ashore site in 
     Romania and Poland. The Secretary shall ensure the deployment 
     of such capabilities--
       (1) at such sites in Romania by not later than one year 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
       (2) at such sites in Poland by not later than one year 
     after the declaration of operational status for such sites.
       (b) Reprogramming and Transfers.--Any reprogramming or 
     transfer made to carry out subsection (a) shall be carried 
     out in accordance with established procedures for 
     reprogramming or transfers.

     SEC. 1683. DEVELOPMENT OF PERSISTENT SPACE-BASED SENSOR 
                   ARCHITECTURE.

       (a) In General.--If consistent with the direction or 
     recommendations of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review that 
     commenced in 2017, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     shall develop, using sound acquisition practices, a highly 
     reliable and cost-effective persistent space-based sensor 
     architecture capable of supporting the ballistic missile 
     defense system.
       (b) Testing and Deployment.--The Director shall ensure that 
     the sensor architecture developed under subsection (a) is 
     rigorously tested before final production decisions or 
     operational deployment.
       (c) Functions.--The sensor architecture developed under 
     subsection (a) shall include one or more of the following 
     functions:
       (1) Control of increased raid sizes.
       (2) Precision tracking of threat missiles.
       (3) Fire-control-quality tracks of evolving threat 
     missiles.
       (4) Enabling of launch-on-remote and engage-on-remote 
     capabilities.
       (5) Discrimination of warheads.
       (6) Effective kill assessment.
       (7) Enhanced shot doctrine.
       (8) Integration with the command, control, battle 
     management, and communication program of the ballistic 
     missile defense system.
       (9) Integration with all other elements of the current 
     ballistic missile defense system, including the Terminal High 
     Altitude Area Defense, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, Aegis 
     Ashore, and Patriot Air and Missile Defense systems.
       (10) Such additional functions as determined by the 
     Ballistic Missile Defense Review.
       (d) Cost Estimates.--Whenever the Director develops a cost 
     estimate for the sensor architecture required by subsection 
     (a), the Director shall use--
       (1) the cost-estimating and assessment guide of the 
     Comptroller General of the United States titled ``GAO Cost 
     Estimating and Assessment Guide'' (GAO-09-3SP), or a 
     successor guide; or
       (2) the most current operating and support cost-estimating 
     guide of the Office of Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation.
       (e) Plan.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a plan that includes--
       (1) how the Director will develop the sensor architecture 
     under subsection (a), including with respect to the estimated 
     costs (in accordance with subsection (d)) to develop, 
     acquire, and deploy, and the lifecycle costs to operate and 
     sustain, the sensor architecture;
       (2) an assessment of the maturity of critical technologies 
     necessary to make operational such sensor architecture, and 
     recommendations for any research and development activities 
     to rapidly mature such technologies;
       (3) an assessment of what capabilities such sensor 
     architecture can contribute that other sensor architectures 
     do not contribute;
       (4) how the Director will leverage the use of national 
     technical means, commercially available space and terrestrial 
     capabilities, hosted payloads, small satellites, and other 
     capabilities to carry out subsection (a); and
       (5) any other matters the Director determines appropriate.
       (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.

     SEC. 1684. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DEFENSE SYSTEM AND 
                   ISRAELI COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM CO-
                   DEVELOPMENT AND CO-PRODUCTION.

       (a) Iron Dome Short-range Rocket Defense System.--
       (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available 
     for the Missile Defense Agency, not more than $92,000,000 may 
     be provided to the Government of Israel to procure Tamir 
     interceptors for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense 
     system through co-production of such interceptors in the 
     United States by industry of the United States.
       (2) Conditions.--
       (A) Agreement.--Funds described in paragraph (1) for the 
     Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program shall be 
     available subject to the terms and conditions in the 
     Agreement Between the Department of Defense of the United 
     States of America and the Ministry of Defense of the State of 
     Israel Concerning Iron Dome Defense System Procurement, 
     signed on March 5, 2014, as amended to include co-production 
     for Tamir interceptors. In negotiations by the Missile 
     Defense Agency and the Missile Defense Organization of the 
     Government of Israel regarding such production, the goal of 
     the United States is to maximize opportunities for co-
     production of the Tamir interceptors described in paragraph 
     (1) in the United States by industry of the United States.
       (B) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to the 
     initial obligation of funds described in paragraph (1), the 
     Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall 
     jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees--
       (i) a certification that the amended bilateral 
     international agreement specified in subparagraph (A) is 
     being implemented as provided in such agreement; and
       (ii) an assessment detailing any risks relating to the 
     implementation of such agreement.
       (b) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, David's 
     Sling Weapon System Co-production.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for 
     procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
     Defense Agency not more than $120,000,000 may be provided to 
     the Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon 
     System, including for co-production of parts and components 
     in the United States by United States industry.
       (2) Certification.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a certification that--
       (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
     successful completion of the knowledge points, technical 
     milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the 
     research, development, and technology agreement and the 
     bilateral co-production agreement for the David's Sling 
     Weapon System;
       (B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be provided on 
     the basis of a one-for-one cash match made by Israel or in 
     another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as 
     mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel); and
       (C) the level of co-production of parts, components, and 
     all-up rounds (if appropriate) in the United States by United 
     States industry for the David's Sling Weapon System is not 
     less than 50 percent.
       (c) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, Arrow 3 
     Upper Tier Interceptor Program Co-production.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for 
     procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
     Defense Agency not more than $120,000,000 may be provided to 
     the Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
     Interceptor Program, including for co-production of parts and 
     components in the United States by United States industry.
       (2) Certification.--Except as provided by paragraph (3), 
     the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a certification that--
       (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
     successful completion of the knowledge points, technical 
     milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the 
     research, development, and technology agreements for the 
     Arrow 3 Upper Tier Development Program;
       (B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be provided on 
     the basis of a one-for-one cash match made by Israel or in 
     another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as 
     mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel);
       (C) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
     international agreement with Israel that establishes, with 
     respect to the use of such funds--
       (i) in accordance with subparagraph (D), the terms of co-
     production of parts and components on the basis of the 
     greatest practicable co-production of parts, components, and 
     all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United States industry and 
     minimizes nonrecurring engineering and facilitization 
     expenses to the costs needed for co-production;
       (ii) complete transparency on the requirement of Israel for 
     the number of interceptors and batteries that will be 
     procured, including with respect to the procurement plans, 
     acquisition strategy, and funding profiles of Israel;
       (iii) technical milestones for co-production of parts and 
     components and procurement;
       (iv) a joint affordability working group to consider cost 
     reduction initiatives; and
       (v) joint approval processes for third-party sales; and
       (D) the level of co-production described in subparagraph 
     (C)(i) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program is not 
     less than 50 percent.
       (3) Waiver.--The Under Secretary may waive the 
     certification required by paragraph (2) if the Under 
     Secretary certifies to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that the Under Secretary has received sufficient 
     data from the Government of Israel to demonstrate--
       (A) the funds specified in paragraph (1) are provided to 
     Israel solely for funding the procurement of long-lead 
     components and critical hardware in accordance with a 
     production plan, including a funding profile detailing 
     Israeli contributions for production, including long-lead 
     production, of the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program;
       (B) such long-lead components have successfully completed 
     knowledge points, technical milestones, and production 
     readiness reviews; and
       (C) the long-lead procurement will be conducted in a manner 
     that maximizes co-production in the United States without 
     incurring nonrecurring engineering activity or cost other 
     than such activity or cost required for suppliers of the 
     United States to start or restart production in the United 
     States.

[[Page H8839]]

       (d) Number.--In carrying out paragraph (2) of subsection 
     (b) and paragraph (2) of subsection (c), the Under Secretary 
     may submit--
       (1) one certification covering both the David's Sling 
     Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; 
     or
       (2) separate certifications for each respective system.
       (e) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the certifications under 
     paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and paragraph (2) of 
     subsection (c) by not later than 60 days before the funds 
     specified in paragraph (1) of subsections (b) and (c) for the 
     respective system covered by the certification are provided 
     to the Government of Israel.
       (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the following:
       (1) The congressional defense committees.
       (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1685. BOOST PHASE BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, 
     if consistent with the direction or recommendations of the 
     Ballistic Missile Defense Review that commenced in 2017--
       (1) the Secretary of Defense should rapidly develop and 
     demonstrate a boost phase intercept capability for missile 
     defense as soon as practicable;
       (2) existing technologies should be adapted to demonstrate 
     this capability;
       (3) the concept of operation for this demonstration should 
     be developed in cooperation with the United States Pacific 
     Command to address emerging threats and heightened tensions 
     in the Asia-Pacific region; and
       (4) the Secretary should prioritize funding allocations for 
     the development of boost phase intercept capabilities and 
     coordinate these efforts with the Missile Defense Agency as 
     the Agency develops a space-based missile defense sensor 
     layer.
       (b) Initial Operational Deployment.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall ensure that an effective interim kinetic or 
     directed energy boost phase ballistic missile defense 
     capability is available for initial operational deployment as 
     soon as practicable.
       (c) Plan.--Together with the budget of the President 
     submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
     United States Code, for fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a plan to achieve the requirement in subsection (b). Such 
     plan shall include--
       (1) the budget requirements;
       (2) a robust test schedule; and
       (3) a plan to develop an enduring boost phase ballistic 
     missile defense capability, including cost and test schedule.

     SEC. 1686. GROUND-BASED INTERCEPTOR CAPABILITY, CAPACITY, AND 
                   RELIABILITY.

       (a) Increase in Capacity and Continued Advancement.--The 
     Secretary of Defense may--
       (1) subject to the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     for national missile defense, increase the number of the 
     ground-based interceptors of the United States by up to 28, 
     if consistent with the direction or recommendations of the 
     Ballistic Missile Defense Review that commenced in 2017;
       (2) develop a plan to further increase such number to the 
     currently available missile field capacity of 104 and to plan 
     for any future capacity at any site that may be identified by 
     such Ballistic Missile Defense Review; and
       (3) continue to rapidly advance missile defense 
     technologies to improve the capability and reliability of the 
     ground-based midcourse defense element of the ballistic 
     missile defense system.
       (b) Deployment.--Not later than December 31, 2021, the 
     Secretary of Defense may--
       (1) execute any requisite construction to ensure that 
     Missile Field 1 or Missile Field 2 at Fort Greely, Alaska, or 
     alternative missile fields at Fort Greely which may be 
     identified pursuant to subsection (a), are capable of 
     supporting and sustaining additional ground-based 
     interceptors; and
       (2) deploy up to 20 additional ground-based interceptors to 
     a missile field at Fort Greely as soon as technically 
     feasible.
       (c) Report.--
       (1) In general.--If consistent with the direction or 
     recommendations of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review that 
     commenced in 2017, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees, not 
     later than 90 days after the date on which the Ballistic 
     Missile Defense Review is published, a report on options to 
     increase the capability, capacity, and reliability of the 
     ground-based midcourse defense element of the ballistic 
     missile defense system and the infrastructure requirements 
     for increasing the number of ground-based interceptors in 
     currently feasible locations across the United States.
       (2) Contents.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
     the following:
       (A) An identification of potential sites in the United 
     States, whether existing or new on the East Coast or in the 
     Midwest, for the deployment of 104 ground-based interceptors.
       (B) A cost-benefit analysis of each such site, including 
     with respect to tactical, operational, and cost-to-construct 
     considerations.
       (C) A description of any completed and outstanding 
     environmental assessments or impact statements for each such 
     site.
       (D) A description of the additional infrastructure and 
     components needed to further outfit missile fields at Fort 
     Greely before emplacing additional ground-based interceptors 
     configured with the redesigned kill vehicle, including with 
     respect to ground excavation, silos, utilities, and support 
     equipment.
       (E) A cost estimate of such infrastructure and components.
       (F) An estimated schedule for completing such construction 
     as may be required for such infrastructure and components.
       (G) An identification of any environmental assessments or 
     impact studies that would need to be conducted to expand such 
     missile fields at Fort Greely beyond current capacity.
       (H) A determination of the appropriate fleet mix of ground-
     based interceptor kill vehicles and boosters to maximize 
     overall system effectiveness and increase its capacity and 
     capability, including the costs and benefits of continued 
     inclusion of capability enhancement II block 1 interceptors 
     after the fielding of the redesigned kill vehicle.
       (3) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 1687. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR GROUND-
                   BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE ELEMENT OF THE 
                   BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.

       Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for the ground-
     based midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile 
     defense system, $50,000,000 may not be obligated or expended 
     until the date on which the Director of the Missile Defense 
     Agency submits to the congressional defense committees a 
     written certification that the risk of mission failure of 
     ground-based midcourse interceptor enhanced kill vehicles due 
     to foreign object debris has been minimized.

     SEC. 1688. PLAN FOR DEVELOPMENT OF SPACE-BASED BALLISTIC 
                   MISSILE INTERCEPT LAYER.

       (a) Development.--If consistent with the direction or 
     recommendations of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review that 
     commenced in 2017, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     shall develop a space-based ballistic missile intercept layer 
     to the ballistic missile defense system that is--
       (1) regionally focused;
       (2) capable of providing boost-phase defense; and
       (3) achieves an operational capability at the earliest 
     practicable date.
       (b) Space-based Ballistic Missile Intercept Layer Plan.--If 
     the Director carries out subsection (a), not later than one 
     year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Director shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a plan to carry out subsection (a) during the 10-
     year period following the date of the plan. Such plan shall 
     include the following:
       (1) A concept definition phase consisting of multiple 
     awarded contracts to identify feasible solutions consistent 
     with architectural principles, performance goals, and price 
     points established by the Director, such as contracts 
     relating to--
       (A) refined requirements;
       (B) conceptual designs;
       (C) technology readiness assessments;
       (D) critical technical and operational issues;
       (E) cost, schedule, performance estimates; and
       (F) risk reduction plans.
       (2) A technology risk reduction phase consisting of up to 
     three competitively awarded contracts focused on maturing, 
     integrating, and characterizing key technologies, algorithms, 
     components, and subsystems, such as contracts relating to--
       (A) refined concepts and designs;
       (B) engineering trade studies;
       (C) medium-to-high fidelity digital representations of the 
     space-based ballistic missile intercept weapon system; and
       (D) a proposed integration and test sequence that could 
     potentially lead to a live-fire boost phase intercept during 
     fiscal year 2022, if the technology has reached sufficient 
     maturity and is economically viable.
       (3) During the technology risk reduction phase, contractors 
     will define proposed demonstrations to a preliminary design 
     review level prior to a technology development phase down-
     select.
       (4) A technology development phase consisting of two 
     competitively awarded contracts to mature the preferred 
     space-based ballistic missile intercept weapon system 
     concepts and to potentially conduct a live-fire boost phase 
     intercept fly-off during fiscal year 2022, if the technology 
     has reached sufficient maturity and is economically viable, 
     with brassboard hardware and prototype software on a path to 
     the operational goal.
       (5) A concurrent space-based ballistic missile intercept 
     weapon system fire control test bed activity that 
     incrementally incorporates modeling and simulation elements, 
     real-world data, hardware, algorithms, and systems to 
     evaluate with increasing confidence the performance of 
     evolving designs and concepts of such weapon system from 
     target detection to intercept.
       (6) Any other matters the Director determines appropriate.
       (c) Establishment of Space Test Bed.--In carrying out 
     subsection (a), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     shall establish a space test bed to--
       (1) conduct research and development regarding options for 
     a space-based defensive layer, including with respect to 
     space-based interceptors and directed energy platforms; and
       (2) identify the most cost-efficient and promising 
     technological solutions to implementing such layer.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.

[[Page H8840]]

  


     SEC. 1689. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE STATE OF THE MISSILE 
                   DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the Secretary of Defense should use the Ballistic 
     Missile Defense Review that commenced in 2017 to consider 
     accelerating the development of technologies that will 
     increase the capacity, capability, and reliability of the 
     ground-based midcourse defense element of the ballistic 
     missile defense system;
       (2) upon completion of the Ballistic Missile Defense 
     Review, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency should, to 
     the extent practicable and with sound acquisition practices, 
     accelerate the development, testing, and fielding of such 
     capabilities as they are prioritized in the Ballistic Missile 
     Defense Review, with respect to the redesigned kill vehicle, 
     the multi-object kill vehicle, the C3 booster, a space-based 
     sensor layer, boost phase sensor and kill technologies, and 
     additional ground-based interceptors; and
       (3) in order to achieve these objectives, and to avoid 
     post-production and post-deployment problems, it is essential 
     for the Department of Defense and the Missile Defense Agency 
     to follow a ``fly before you buy'' approach to adequately 
     test and assess the elements of the ballistic missile defense 
     system before final production decisions or operational 
     deployment.

     SEC. 1690. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORT ON GROUND-BASED 
                   MIDCOURSE DEFENSE TESTING.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) at a minimum, the Missile Defense Agency should 
     continue to flight test the ground-based midcourse defense 
     element at least once each fiscal year;
       (2) the Department of Defense should allocate increased 
     funding to homeland missile defense testing to ensure that 
     the defenses of the United States continue to evolve faster 
     than the threats against which they are postured to defend, 
     while pursuing a sound acquisition practice;
       (3) in order to rapidly innovate, develop, and field new 
     technologies, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     should continue to focus testing campaigns on delivering 
     increased capabilities to the Armed Forces as quickly as 
     possible; and
       (4) the Director should seek to establish a more prudent 
     balance between risk mitigation and the more rapid testing 
     pace needed to quickly develop and deliver new capabilities 
     to the Armed Forces.
       (b) Report.--
       (1) In general.--If consistent with the direction or 
     recommendations of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review that 
     commenced in 2017, not later than 90 days after the date on 
     which the Review is published, the Director of the Missile 
     Defense Agency shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a revised missile defense testing campaign plan 
     that accelerates the development and deployment of new 
     missile defense technologies.
       (2) Contents.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
     the following:
       (A) A detailed analysis of the acceleration of each of 
     following programs:
       (i) Redesigned kill vehicle.
       (ii) Multi-object kill vehicle.
       (iii) Configuration-3 Booster.
       (iv) Such additional technologies as the Director considers 
     appropriate.
       (B) A new deployment timeline for each of the programs 
     listed in subparagraph (A) or a detailed description of why 
     the current timeline for deployment technologies under those 
     programs is most suitable.
       (C) An identification of any funding or policy restrictions 
     that would slow down the deployment of the technologies under 
     the programs listed in subparagraph (A).
       (D) A risk assessment of the potential cost-overruns and 
     deployment delays that may be encountered in the expedited 
     development process of the capabilities under paragraph (1).
       (c) Report on Funding Profile.--The Director shall include 
     with the budget justification materials submitted to Congress 
     in support of the budget of the Department of Defense for 
     fiscal year 2019 (as submitted with the budget of the 
     President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States 
     Code) a report on the funding profile necessary for the new 
     testing campaign plan required by subsection (b)(1).

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

     SEC. 1691. COMMISSION TO ASSESS THE THREAT TO THE UNITED 
                   STATES FROM ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE ATTACKS AND 
                   SIMILAR EVENTS.

       (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a 
     commission to be known as the ``Commission to Assess the 
     Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse 
     Attacks and Similar Events'' (hereafter in this section 
     referred to as the ``Commission''). The purpose of the 
     Commission is to assess and make recommendations with respect 
     to the threat to the United States from electromagnetic pulse 
     attacks and similar events.
       (b) Composition.--
       (1) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 12 
     members appointed as follows:
       (A) Three members appointed by the chair of the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
       (B) Three members appointed by the ranking minority member 
     of the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (C) Three members appointed by the chair of the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the Senate.
       (D) Three members appointed by the ranking minority member 
     of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
       (2) Chair and vice chair.--
       (A) Chair.--The chair of the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representatives and the chair of the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the Senate shall jointly designate one 
     member of the Commission to serve as chair of the Commission.
       (B) Vice chair.--The ranking minority member of the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     and the ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the Senate shall jointly designate one member of 
     the Commission to serve as vice chair of the Commission.
       (3) Security clearance required.--Each individual appointed 
     as a member of the Commission shall possess (or have recently 
     possessed before the date of such appointment) the 
     appropriate security clearance necessary to carry out the 
     duties of the Commission.
       (4) Qualification.--Members of the Commission shall be 
     appointed from among private United States citizens with 
     knowledge and expertise in the scientific, technical, and 
     defense aspects of electromagnetic pulse threats, geomagnetic 
     disturbances, and related vulnerabilities.
       (5) Period of appointment; vacancies.--Members shall be 
     appointed for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the 
     Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
     appointment.
       (c) Duties.--
       (1) Review and assessment.--The Commission shall review and 
     assess--
       (A) the nature, magnitude, and likelihood of potential 
     electromagnetic pulse (hereafter in section referred to as 
     ``EMP'') attacks and similar events, including geomagnetic 
     disturbances, both manmade and natural, that could be 
     directed at or affect the United States within the next 20 
     years;
       (B) the vulnerability of United States military and 
     civilian systems to EMP attacks and similar events, including 
     with respect to emergency preparedness and immediate 
     response;
       (C) the capability of the United States to repair and 
     recover from damage inflicted on United States military and 
     civilian systems by EMP attacks and similar events; and
       (D) the feasibility and cost of hardening critical military 
     and civilian systems against EMP attack and similar events.
       (2) Recommendations.--The Commission shall recommend any 
     actions it believes should be taken by the United States to 
     better prepare, prevent, mitigate, or recover military and 
     civilian systems with respect to EMP attacks and similar 
     events.
       (d) Cooperation From Government.--
       (1) Cooperation.--In carrying out its duties, the 
     Commission shall receive the full and timely cooperation of 
     the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, and the pertinent heads of 
     any other Federal agency in providing the Commission with 
     analysis, briefings, and other information necessary for the 
     fulfillment of its responsibilities.
       (2) Liaison.--Each Secretary specified in paragraph (1) 
     shall designate at least one officer or employee of the 
     respective department of the Secretary to serve as a liaison 
     officer between the Department and the Commission.
       (e) Report.--
       (1) Final report.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2019, the 
     Commission shall submit to the President, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     Senate a report on the findings, conclusions, and 
     recommendations of the Commission.
       (B) Form of report.--The report submitted to Congress under 
     subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
     may include a classified annex.
       (2) Views of the secretary.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the submittal of the report under paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the Senate a report that contains the views 
     of the Secretary with respect to the findings, conclusions, 
     and recommendations of the Commission and any actions the 
     Secretary intends to take as a result.
       (3) Interim briefing.--Not later than October 1, 2018, the 
     Commission shall provide to the Committee on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the Senate a briefing on the status of the 
     activities of the Commission, including a discussion of any 
     interim recommendations.
       (f) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act for the Department of Defense, $3,000,000 is 
     available to fund the activities of the Commission, as 
     specified in the funding tables in division D.
       (g) Application of Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The 
     Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to 
     the Commission.
       (h) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate on October 
     1, 2019.
       (i) Repeal.--Title XIV of Floyd D. Spence National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (Public Law 106-398) 
     is repealed.

     SEC. 1692. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM 
                   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

       Section 130i of title 10, United States Code, is amended to 
     read as follows:

     ``Sec. 130i Protection of certain facilities and assets from 
       unmanned aircraft

       ``(a) Authority.--Notwithstanding section 46502 of title 
     49, or any provision of title 18, the Secretary of Defense 
     may take, and may authorize members of the armed forces and 
     officers and civilian employees of the Department of Defense 
     with assigned duties that include safety, security, or 
     protection of personnel, facilities, or assets, to take, such 
     actions described in subsection (b)(1) that are necessary to 
     mitigate the threat (as defined by the Secretary of Defense, 
     in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation) that an 
     unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft poses to the 
     safety or security of a covered facility or asset.

[[Page H8841]]

       ``(b) Actions Described.--(1) The actions described in this 
     paragraph are the following:
       ``(A) Detect, identify, monitor, and track the unmanned 
     aircraft system or unmanned aircraft, without prior consent, 
     including by means of intercept or other access of a wire 
     communication, an oral communication, or an electronic 
     communication used to control the unmanned aircraft system or 
     unmanned aircraft.
       ``(B) Warn the operator of the unmanned aircraft system or 
     unmanned aircraft, including by passive or active, and direct 
     or indirect physical, electronic, radio, and electromagnetic 
     means.
       ``(C) Disrupt control of the unmanned aircraft system or 
     unmanned aircraft, without prior consent, including by 
     disabling the unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft 
     by intercepting, interfering, or causing interference with 
     wire, oral, electronic, or radio communications used to 
     control the unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft.
       ``(D) Seize or exercise control of the unmanned aircraft 
     system or unmanned aircraft.
       ``(E) Seize or otherwise confiscate the unmanned aircraft 
     system or unmanned aircraft.
       ``(F) Use reasonable force to disable, damage, or destroy 
     the unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft.
       ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall develop the actions 
     described in paragraph (1) in coordination with the Secretary 
     of Transportation.
       ``(c) Forfeiture.--Any unmanned aircraft system or unmanned 
     aircraft described in subsection (a) that is seized by the 
     Secretary of Defense is subject to forfeiture to the United 
     States.
       ``(d) Regulations and Guidance.--(1) The Secretary of 
     Defense and the Secretary of Transportation may prescribe 
     regulations and shall issue guidance in the respective areas 
     of each Secretary to carry out this section.
       ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
     Transportation shall coordinate in the development of 
     guidance under paragraph (1).
       ``(B) The Secretary of Defense shall coordinate with the 
     Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration before issuing any guidance 
     or otherwise implementing this section if such guidance or 
     implementation might affect aviation safety, civilian 
     aviation and aerospace operations, aircraft airworthiness, or 
     the use of airspace.
       ``(e) Privacy Protection.--The regulations prescribed or 
     guidance issued under subsection (d) shall ensure that--
       ``(1) the interception or acquisition of, or access to, 
     communications to or from an unmanned aircraft system under 
     this section is conducted in a manner consistent with the 
     fourth amendment to the Constitution and applicable 
     provisions of Federal law;
       ``(2) communications to or from an unmanned aircraft system 
     are intercepted, acquired, or accessed only to the extent 
     necessary to support a function of the Department of Defense;
       ``(3) records of such communications are not maintained for 
     more than 180 days unless the Secretary of Defense determines 
     that maintenance of such records--
       ``(A) is necessary to support one or more functions of the 
     Department of Defense; or
       ``(B) is required for a longer period to support a civilian 
     law enforcement agency or by any other applicable law or 
     regulation; and
       ``(4) such communications are not disclosed outside the 
     Department of Defense unless the disclosure--
       ``(A) would fulfill a function of the Department of 
     Defense;
       ``(B) would support a civilian law enforcement agency or 
     the enforcement activities of a regulatory agency of the 
     Federal Government in connection with a criminal or civil 
     investigation of, or any regulatory action with regard to, an 
     action described in subsection (b)(1); or
       ``(C) is otherwise required by law or regulation.
       ``(f) Budget.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
     Congress, as a part of the defense budget materials for each 
     fiscal year after fiscal year 2018, a consolidated funding 
     display that identifies the funding source for the actions 
     described in subsection (b)(1) within the Department of 
     Defense. The funding display shall be in unclassified form, 
     but may contain a classified annex.
       ``(g) Semiannual Briefings.--(1) On a semiannual basis 
     during the five-year period beginning March 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Transportation, 
     shall jointly provide a briefing to the appropriate 
     congressional committees on the activities carried out 
     pursuant to this section. Such briefings shall include--
       ``(A) policies, programs, and procedures to mitigate or 
     eliminate impacts of such activities to the National Airspace 
     System;
       ``(B) a description of instances where actions described in 
     subsection (b)(1) have been taken;
       ``(C) how the Secretaries have informed the public as to 
     the possible use of authorities under this section; and
       ``(D) how the Secretaries have engaged with Federal, State, 
     and local law enforcement agencies to implement and use such 
     authorities.
       ``(2) Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall be in 
     unclassified form, but may be accompanied by an additional 
     classified briefing.
       ``(h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
     construed to--
       ``(1) vest in the Secretary of Defense any authority of the 
     Secretary of Transportation or the Administrator of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration under title 49; and
       ``(2) vest in the Secretary of Transportation or the 
     Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration any 
     authority of the Secretary of Defense under this title.
       ``(i) Partial Termination.--(1) Except as provided by 
     paragraph (2), the authority to carry out this section with 
     respect to the covered facilities or assets specified in 
     clauses (iv) through (viii) of subsection (j)(3) shall 
     terminate on December 31, 2020.
       ``(2) The President may extend by 180 days the termination 
     date specified in paragraph (1) if before November 15, 2020, 
     the President certifies to Congress that such extension is in 
     the national security interests of the United States.
       ``(j) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `appropriate congressional committees' 
     means--
       ``(A) the congressional defense committees;
       ``(B) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate; and
       ``(C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
     Representatives.
       ``(2) The term `budget', with respect to a fiscal year, 
     means the budget for that fiscal year that is submitted to 
     Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31.
       ``(3) The term `covered facility or asset' means any 
     facility or asset that--
       ``(A) is identified by the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of Transportation with 
     respect to potentially impacted airspace, through a risk-
     based assessment for purposes of this section;
       ``(B) is located in the United States (including the 
     territories and possessions of the United States); and
       ``(C) directly relates to the missions of the Department of 
     Defense pertaining to--
       ``(i) nuclear deterrence, including with respect to nuclear 
     command and control, integrated tactical warning and attack 
     assessment, and continuity of government;
       ``(ii) missile defense;
       ``(iii) national security space;
       ``(iv) assistance in protecting the President or the Vice 
     President (or other officer immediately next in order of 
     succession to the office of the President) pursuant to the 
     Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 (18 U.S.C. 
     3056 note);
       ``(v) air defense of the United States, including air 
     sovereignty, ground-based air defense, and the National 
     Capital Region integrated air defense system;
       ``(vi) combat support agencies (as defined in paragraphs 
     (1) through (4) of section 193(f) of this title);
       ``(vii) special operations activities specified in 
     paragraphs (1) through (9) of section 167(k) of this title;
       ``(viii) production, storage, transportation, or 
     decommissioning of high-yield explosive munitions, by the 
     Department; or
       ``(ix) a Major Range and Test Facility Base (as defined in 
     section 196(i) of this title).
       ``(4) The term `defense budget materials', with respect to 
     a fiscal year, means the materials submitted to Congress by 
     the Secretary of Defense in support of the budget for that 
     fiscal year.
       ``(5) The terms `electronic communication', `intercept', 
     `oral communication', and `wire communication' have the 
     meanings given those terms in section 2510 of title 18.
       ``(6) The terms `unmanned aircraft' and `unmanned aircraft 
     system' have the meanings given those terms in section 331 of 
     the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-
     95; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note).''.

     SEC. 1693. CONVENTIONAL PROMPT GLOBAL STRIKE WEAPONS SYSTEM.

       (a) Early Operational Capability.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint 
     Chiefs of Staff, shall plan to reach early operational 
     capability for the conventional prompt strike weapon system 
     by not later than September 30, 2022.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
     Staff, in consultation with the Chief of Staff of the Army, 
     the Commander of the United States European Command, the 
     Commander of the United States Pacific Command, and the 
     Commander of the United States Strategic Command, shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the conventional prompt global strike weapons system with 
     respect to--
       (1) the required level of resources that is consistent with 
     the level of priority assigned to the associated capability 
     gap;
       (2) the estimated period for the delivery of a medium-range 
     early operational capability, the required level of resources 
     necessary to field a medium-range conventional prompt global 
     strike weapon within the United States (including the 
     territories and possessions of the United States), or a 
     similar sea-based system, and a detailed plan consistent with 
     the urgency of the associated capability gap across multiple 
     platforms;
       (3) the joint performance requirements that--
       (A) ensure interoperability, where appropriate, between and 
     among joint military capabilities; and
       (B) are necessary, as designated by the Chairman of the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff, to fulfill capability gaps of more 
     than one military department, Defense Agency, or other 
     element of the Department; and
       (4) in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, any plan 
     (including policy options) considered appropriate to address 
     any potential risks of ambiguity from the launch or 
     employment of such a capability.

     SEC. 1694. BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS REGARDING AMMONIUM 
                   PERCHLORATE.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
     the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, shall 
     conduct a business case analysis regarding the options of the 
     Federal Government to ensure a robust domestic industrial 
     base to supply ammonium perchlorate for use in solid rocket 
     motors. Such analysis should include assessments of the near- 
     and long-term costs, program impacts, opportunities

[[Page H8842]]

     for competition, opportunities for redundant or complementary 
     capabilities, and national security implications of--
       (1) continuing to rely on one domestic provider;
       (2) supporting development of a second domestic source;
       (3) procuring ammonium perchlorate as Government-furnished 
     material and providing it to all necessary programs; and
       (4) such other options as the Secretary determines 
     appropriate.
       (b) Elements.--The analysis under subsection (a) shall, at 
     minimum, include--
       (1) an estimate of all associated costs, including 
     development costs, procurement costs, and qualification and 
     requalification costs (and types of associated testing for 
     requalification), as applicable;
       (2) an assessment of options, under various scenarios, for 
     the quantity of ammonium perchlorate that would be required 
     by the Department of Defense; and
       (3) the assessment of the Secretary of how the requirements 
     for ammonium perchlorate of other Federal agencies impact the 
     requirements of the Department of Defense.
       (c) Report.--The Secretary shall submit the business case 
     analysis required by subsection (a) to the Comptroller 
     General of the United States and the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and House of Representatives by March 
     1, 2018, along with any views of the Secretary.
       (d) Review.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
     shall conduct a review of the report submitted by the 
     Secretary under subsection (c) and, not later than 30 days 
     after receiving such report, provide a briefing on such 
     review to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1695. REPORT ON INDUSTRIAL BASE FOR LARGE SOLID ROCKET 
                   MOTORS AND RELATED TECHNOLOGIES.

       (a) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Administrator of the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration, shall submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
     options to ensure a robust domestic industrial base for large 
     solid rocket motors, including with respect to the critical 
     technologies, subsystems, components, and materials within 
     and relating to such rocket motors.
       (b) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) An assessment of options that would sustain not less 
     than two domestic suppliers for--
       (A) large solid rocket motors;
       (B) small liquid-fueled rocket engines;
       (C) aeroshells for reentry vehicles (or reentry bodies);
       (D) strategic radiation-hardened microelectronics; and
       (E) any other critical technologies, subsystems, 
     components, and materials within and relating to large solid 
     rocket motors that the Secretary determines appropriate.
       (2) With respect to the sustainment of domestic suppliers 
     as described in paragraph (1), the views of the Secretary 
     on--
       (A) such sustainment of not less than two domestic 
     suppliers for each item specified in subparagraphs (A) 
     through (E) of such paragraph;
       (B) the risks within the industrial base for each such 
     item;
       (C) the estimated costs for such sustainment; and
       (D) the opportunities to ensure or promote competition 
     within the industrial base for each such item.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.

     SEC. 1696. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCING INFORMATION SHARING FOR 
                   SECURITY OF SUPPLY CHAIN.

       (a) Establishment.--Not later than June 1, 2019, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot program to 
     enhance information sharing with cleared defense contractors 
     to ensure all source information is appropriately, 
     singularly, and exclusively shared for the purpose of 
     ensuring the security or integrity of the supply chain of 
     covered programs.
       (b) Selection.--The Secretary shall select not more than 10 
     acquisition or sustainment programs of the Department of 
     Defense to participate in the pilot program under subsection 
     (a), of which--
       (1) not fewer than one program shall be related to nuclear 
     weapons;
       (2) not fewer than one program shall be related to nuclear 
     command, control, and communications;
       (3) not fewer than one program shall be related to 
     continuity of government;
       (4) not fewer than one program shall be related to 
     ballistic missile defense;
       (5) not fewer than one program shall be related to other 
     command and control systems; and
       (6) not fewer than one program shall be related to space 
     systems.
       (c) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     that includes--
       (1) details on how the Secretary will establish the pilot 
     program under subsection (a) to ensure all source information 
     is appropriately, singularly, and exclusively shared for the 
     purpose of ensuring the security or integrity of the supply 
     chain of covered programs;
       (2) details of any personnel, funding, or statutory 
     constraints in carrying out the pilot program; and
       (3) the identification of any legislative action or 
     administrative action required to provide the Secretary with 
     specific additional authorities required to fully implement 
     the pilot program.
       (d) Cleared Defense Contractors Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``cleared defense contractors'' means contractors of 
     the Department of Defense who have a security clearance, 
     including contractor facilities that have a security 
     clearance.

     SEC. 1697. PILOT PROGRAM ON ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM MAPPING.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense may 
     establish a pilot program to assess the viability of mapping 
     the electromagnetic spectrum used by the Department of 
     Defense.
       (b) Duration.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
     the pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on the 
     date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.
       (c) Interim Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate (and to any other 
     congressional defense committee upon request) demonstrating 
     how the Secretary plans to implement the pilot program under 
     subsection (a).
       (d) Final Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the pilot 
     program under subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Senate (and to any 
     other congressional defense committee upon request) on the 
     utility, cost, and other considerations regarding the mapping 
     of the electromagnetic spectrum used by the Department of 
     Defense.

     SEC. 1698. USE OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS IN DISTRIBUTED COMMON 
                   GROUND SYSTEMS.

       (a) In General.--The procurement process for each covered 
     Distributed Common Ground System shall be carried out in 
     accordance with section 2377 of title 10, United States Code.
       (b) Certification.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the service acquisition 
     executive responsible for each covered Distributed Common 
     Ground System shall certify to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that the procurement process for increments of the 
     system procured after the date of the enactment of this Act 
     will be carried out in accordance with section 2377 of title 
     10, United States Code.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) The term ``covered Distributed Common Ground System'' 
     includes the following:
       (A) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Army.
       (B) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Navy.
       (C) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Marine 
     Corps.
       (D) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Air Force.
       (E) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Special 
     Operations Forces.

   TITLE XVII--SMALL BUSINESS PROCUREMENT AND INDUSTRIAL BASE MATTERS

Sec. 1701. Amendments to HUBZone provisions of the Small Business Act.
Sec. 1702. Uniformity in procurement terminology.
Sec. 1703. Improving reporting on small business goals.
Sec. 1704. Responsibilities of Business Opportunity Specialists.
Sec. 1705. Responsibilities of commercial market representatives.
Sec. 1706. Modification of past performance pilot program to include 
              consideration of past performance with allies of the 
              United States.
Sec. 1707. Notice of cost-free Federal procurement technical assistance 
              in connection with registration of small business 
              concerns on procurement websites of the Department of 
              Defense.
Sec. 1708. Inclusion of SBIR and STTR programs in technical assistance.
Sec. 1709. Requirements relating to competitive procedures and 
              justification for awards under the SBIR and STTR 
              programs.
Sec. 1710. Pilot program for streamlined technology transition from the 
              SBIR and STTR programs of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1711. Pilot program on strengthening manufacturing in the defense 
              industrial base.
Sec. 1712. Review regarding applicability of foreign ownership, 
              control, or influence requirements of National Industrial 
              Security Program to national technology and industrial 
              base companies.
Sec. 1713. Report on sourcing of tungsten and tungsten powders from 
              domestic producers.
Sec. 1714. Report on utilization of small business concerns for Federal 
              contracts.

     SEC. 1701. AMENDMENTS TO HUBZONE PROVISIONS OF THE SMALL 
                   BUSINESS ACT.

       (a) Transfer of HUBZone Definitions.--
       (1) Redesignation.--Section 31 of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 657a) is amended by redesignating subsections (b), 
     (c), and (d) as subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively.
       (2) Transfer.--Subsection (p) of section 3 of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(p)) is

[[Page H8843]]

     transferred to section 31 of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 657a), inserted so as to appear after subsection (a), 
     and redesignated as subsection (b), and is amended--
       (A) by striking ``In this Act:'' and inserting ``In this 
     section:'';
       (B) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking ``term'' and inserting ``terms''; and
       (ii) by striking ``means'' and inserting ``or `HUBZone' 
     mean''; and
       (C) by striking paragraph (2) (and redesignating subsequent 
     paragraphs accordingly).
       (3) Definition of qualified hubzone small business 
     concern.--Section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     632), as amended by paragraph (2), is further amended by 
     inserting after subsection (o) the following new subsection 
     (p):
       ``(p) Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concern.--In this 
     Act, the term `qualified HUBZone small business concern' has 
     the meaning given such term in section 31(b).''.
       (4) Conforming amendments.--
       (A) Mentor-protege program.--Section 831(n)(2)(G) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 
     (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1607; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
     amended by striking ``section 3(p) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 632(p))'' and inserting ``section 31(b) of the 
     Small Business Act''.
       (B) Title 10.--Section 2323 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``section 3(p) of the Small 
     Business Act'' each place it appears and inserting ``section 
     31(b) of the Small Business Act''.
       (C) Small business act.--Section 8(d)(3)(G) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(G)) is amended by striking 
     ``section 3(p) of the Small Business Act'' and inserting 
     ``section 31(b)''.
       (D) Comprehensive small business subcontracting plans.--
     Section 834 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (15 U.S.C. 637 note) is amended by 
     striking ``section 3(p)(5) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 
     632(p)(5))'' and inserting ``section 31(b) of such Act''.
       (E) Contracts for collection services.--Section 3718 of 
     title 31, United States Code, is amended by striking 
     ``section 3(p) of the Small Business Act'' each place it 
     appears and inserting ``section 31(b) of the Small Business 
     Act''.
       (F) Title 41.--Title 41, United States Code, is amended--
       (i) in section 1122, by striking ``section 3(p) of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(p))'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``section 31(b) of the Small Business Act''; 
     and
       (ii) in section 1713, by striking ``section 3(p) of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(p))'' and inserting 
     ``section 31(b) of the Small Business Act''.
       (G) Title 49.--Title 49, United States Code, is amended--
       (i) in section 47107, by striking ``section 3(p) of the 
     Small Business Act'' each place it appears and inserting 
     ``section 31(b) of the Small Business Act''; and
       (ii) in section 47113(a)(3), by striking ``section 3(p) of 
     the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(o))'' and inserting 
     ``section 31(b) of the Small Business Act''.
       (b) Amendments to Definitions of Qualified Census Tract and 
     Qualified Nonmetropolitan County.--
       (1) In general.--Paragraph (3) of section 31(b) of the 
     Small Business Act (as transferred and redesignated by 
     subsection (a)) is amended--
       (A) in subparagraph (A)--
       (i) by amending clause (i) to read as follows:
       ``(i) In general.--The term `qualified census tract' means 
     a census tract that is covered by the definition of 
     `qualified census tract' in section 42(d)(5)(B)(ii) of the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and that is reflected in an 
     online tool prepared by the Administrator described under 
     subsection (d)(7).''; and
       (ii) in clause (ii), by inserting ``and that is reflected 
     in the online tool described under clause (i)'' after ``such 
     section''; and
       (B) in subparagraph (B)--
       (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting ``that 
     is reflected in the online tool described under subparagraph 
     (A)(i) and'' after ``any county''; and
       (ii) in clause (ii)--

       (I) in subclause (I), by striking ``nonmetropolitan''; and
       (II) by striking ``the most recent data available'' each 
     place it appears and inserting ``a 5-year average of the 
     available data''.

       (2) Technical amendments.--Paragraph (3)(B) of section 
     31(b) of the Small Business Act (as transferred and 
     redesignated by subsection (a)), as amended by paragraph (1), 
     is further amended--
       (A) in clause (i), by striking ``section 42(d)(5)(C)(ii) of 
     the Internal Revenue Code of 1986'' and inserting ``section 
     42(d)(5)(B)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986''; and
       (B) in clause (ii)(III), by striking ``section 
     42(d)(5)(C)(iii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986'' and 
     inserting ``section 42(d)(5)(B)(iii) of the Internal Revenue 
     Code of 1986''.
       (c) Amendments to Definitions of Base Closure Area and 
     Qualified Disaster Area.--Paragraph (3) of section 31(b) of 
     the Small Business Act (as transferred and redesignated by 
     subsection (a)), as amended by subsection (b), is further 
     amended--
       (1) by amending clause (ii) of subparagraph (D) to read as 
     follows:
       ``(ii) Limitation.--A census tract or nonmetropolitan 
     county described in clause (i) shall be considered to be a 
     base closure area for a period beginning on the date on which 
     the Administrator designates such census tract or 
     nonmetropolitan county as a base closure area and ending on 
     the date on which the base closure area ceases to be a 
     qualified census tract under subparagraph (A) or a qualified 
     nonmetropolitan county under subparagraph (B) in accordance 
     with the online tool prepared by the Administrator described 
     under subsection (d)(7), except that such period may not be 
     less than 8 years.''; and
       (2) by amending subparagraph (E) to read as follows:
       ``(E) Qualified disaster area.--
       ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), the term 
     `qualified disaster area' means any census tract or 
     nonmetropolitan county located in an area where a major 
     disaster has occurred or an area in which a catastrophic 
     incident has occurred if such census tract or nonmetropolitan 
     county ceased to be qualified under subparagraph (A) or (B), 
     as applicable, during the period beginning 5 years before the 
     date on which the President declared the major disaster or 
     the catastrophic incident occurred.
       ``(ii) Duration.--A census tract or nonmetropolitan county 
     shall be considered to be a qualified disaster area under 
     clause (i) only for the period of time ending on the date the 
     area ceases to be a qualified census tract under subparagraph 
     (A) or a qualified nonmetropolitan county under subparagraph 
     (B), in accordance with the online tool prepared by the 
     Administrator described under subsection (d)(7) and 
     beginning--

       ``(I) in the case of a major disaster, on the date on which 
     the President declared the major disaster for the area in 
     which the census tract or nonmetropolitan county, as 
     applicable, is located; or
       ``(II) in the case of a catastrophic incident, on the date 
     on which the catastrophic incident occurred in the area in 
     which the census tract or nonmetropolitan county, as 
     applicable, is located.

       ``(iii) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:

       ``(I) Major disaster.--The term `major disaster' means a 
     major disaster declared by the President under section 401 of 
     the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170).
       ``(II) Other definitions.--The terms `census tract' and 
     `nonmetropolitan county' have the meanings given such terms 
     in subparagraph (D)(iii).''.

       (d) Amendment to Definition of Redesignated Areas.--
     Paragraph (3) of section 31(b) of the Small Business Act (as 
     transferred and redesignated by subsection (a)), as amended 
     by subsection (c), is further amended by amending 
     subparagraph (C) to read as follows:
       ``(C) Redesignated area.--The term `redesignated area' 
     means any census tract that ceases to be qualified under 
     subparagraph (A) and any nonmetropolitan county that ceases 
     to be qualified under subparagraph (B) for a period of 3 
     years after the date on which the census tract or 
     nonmetropolitan county ceased to be so qualified.''.
       (e) Governor-Designated Covered Area.--Section 31(b) of the 
     Small Business Act (as transferred and redesignated by 
     subsection (a)), is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; or''; and
       (C) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(G) a Governor-designated covered area.'';
       (2) in paragraph (3) (as amended by subsection (c)), by 
     adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(F) Governor-designated covered area.--
       ``(i) In general.--A `Governor-designated covered area' 
     means a covered area that the Administrator has designated by 
     approving a petition described under clause (ii).
       ``(ii) Petition.--For a covered area to receive a 
     designation as a Governor-designated covered area, the 
     Governor of the State in which the covered area is wholly 
     contained shall include such covered area in a petition to 
     the Administrator requesting such a designation. In reviewing 
     a request for designation included in such a petition, the 
     Administrator may consider--

       ``(I) the potential for job creation and investment in the 
     covered area;
       ``(II) the demonstrated interest of small business concerns 
     in the covered area to be designated as a Governor-designated 
     covered area;
       ``(III) how State and local government officials have 
     incorporated the covered area into an economic development 
     strategy; and
       ``(IV) if the covered area was a HUBZone before becoming 
     the subject of the petition, the impact on the covered area 
     if the Administrator did not approve the petition.

       ``(iii) Limitations.--Each calendar year, a Governor may 
     submit not more than 1 petition described under clause (ii). 
     Such petition shall include all covered areas in a State for 
     which the Governor seeks designation as a Governor-designated 
     covered area, except that the total number of covered areas 
     included in such petition may not exceed 10 percent of the 
     total number of covered areas in the State.
       ``(iv) Certification.--If the Administrator grants a 
     petition described under clause (ii), the Governor of the 
     Governor-designated covered area shall, not less frequently 
     than annually, submit data to the Administrator certifying 
     that each Governor-designated covered area continues to meet 
     the requirements of clause (v)(I).
       ``(v) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:

       ``(I) Covered area.--The term `covered area' means an area 
     in a State--

       ``(aa) that is located outside of an urbanized area, as 
     determined by the Bureau of the Census;
       ``(bb) with a population of not more than 50,000; and
       ``(cc) for which the average unemployment rate is not less 
     than 120 percent of the average unemployment rate of the 
     United States or of the State in which the covered area is 
     located, whichever is less, based on the most recent data 
     available from the American Community Survey conducted by the 
     Bureau of the Census.

[[Page H8844]]

       ``(II) Governor.--The term `Governor' means the chief 
     executive of a State.
       ``(III) State.--The term `State' means each of the several 
     States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
     Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American 
     Samoa.''.

       (f) Repeal of 5-Year Limitation on HUBZone Status of Base 
     Closure Areas.--Section 152(a) of title I of division K of 
     the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 (15 U.S.C. 632 
     note) is amended by repealing paragraph (2).
       (g) Amendment to Definition of Qualified HUBZone Small 
     Business Concern.--Paragraph (4) of section 31(b) of the 
     Small Business Act (as transferred and redesignated by 
     subsection (a)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(4) Qualified hubzone small business concern.--The term 
     `qualified HUBZone small business concern' means a HUBZone 
     small business concern that has been certified by the 
     Administrator in accordance with the procedures described in 
     this section.''.
       (h) Amendments to HUBZone Program.--
       (1) Clarifications to eligibility for hubzone program.--
     Section 31(d) of the Small Business Act, as redesignated by 
     subsection (a), is amended to read as follows:
       ``(d) Eligibility Requirements; Enforcement.--
       ``(1) Certification.--In order to be eligible for 
     certification by the Administrator as a qualified HUBZone 
     small business concern, a HUBZone small business concern 
     shall submit documentation to the Administrator stating 
     that--
       ``(A) at the time of certification and at each examination 
     conducted pursuant to paragraph (4), the principal office of 
     the concern is located in a HUBZone and not fewer than 35 
     percent of its employees reside in a HUBZone;
       ``(B) the concern will attempt to maintain the applicable 
     employment percentage under subparagraph (A) during the 
     performance of any contract awarded to such concern on the 
     basis of a preference provided under subsection (c); and
       ``(C) the concern will ensure that the requirements of 
     section 46 are satisfied with respect to any subcontract 
     entered into by such concern pursuant to a contract awarded 
     under this section.
       ``(2) Verification.--In carrying out this section, the 
     Administrator shall establish procedures relating to--
       ``(A) the filing, investigation, and disposition by the 
     Administration of any challenge to the eligibility of a 
     HUBZone small business concern to receive assistance under 
     this section (including a challenge, filed by an interested 
     party, relating to the veracity of documentation provided to 
     the Administration by such a concern under paragraph (1)); 
     and
       ``(B) verification by the Administrator of the accuracy of 
     any documentation provided by a HUBZone small business 
     concern under paragraph (1).
       ``(3) Timing.--The Administrator shall verify the 
     eligibility of a HUBZone small business concern using the 
     procedures described in paragraph (2) within a reasonable 
     time and not later than 60 days after the date on which the 
     Administrator receives sufficient and complete documentation 
     from a HUBZone small business concern under paragraph (1).
       ``(4) Recertification.--Not later than 3 years after the 
     date that such HUBZone small business concern was certified 
     as a qualified HUBZone small business concern, and every 3 
     years thereafter, the Administrator shall verify the accuracy 
     of any documentation provided by a HUBZone small business 
     concern under paragraph (1) to determine if such HUBZone 
     small business concern remains a qualified HUBZone small 
     business concern.
       ``(5) Examinations.--The Administrator shall conduct 
     program examinations of qualified HUBZone small business 
     concerns, using a risk-based analysis to select which 
     concerns are examined, to ensure that any concern examined 
     meets the requirements of paragraph (1).
       ``(6) Loss of certification.--A HUBZone small business 
     concern that, based on the results of an examination 
     conducted pursuant to paragraph (5) no longer meets the 
     requirements of paragraph (1), shall have 30 days to submit 
     documentation to the Administrator to be eligible to be 
     certified as a qualified HUBZone small business concern. 
     During the 30-day period, such concern may not compete for or 
     be awarded a contract under this section. If such concern 
     fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (1) by the last 
     day of the 30-day period, the Administrator shall not certify 
     such concern as a qualified HUBZone small business concern.
       ``(7) Hubzone online tool.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall develop a 
     publicly accessible online tool that depicts HUBZones. Such 
     online tool shall be updated--
       ``(i) with respect to HUBZones described under 
     subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (b)(3), beginning on 
     January 1, 2020, and every 5 years thereafter;
       ``(ii) with respect to a HUBZone described under subsection 
     (b)(3)(C), immediately after the area becomes, or ceases to 
     be, a redesignated area; and
       ``(iii) with respect to HUBZones described under 
     subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F) of subsection (b)(3), 
     immediately after an area is designated as a base closure 
     area, qualified disaster area, or Governor-designated covered 
     area, respectively.
       ``(B) Data.--The online tool required under subparagraph 
     (A) shall clearly and conspicuously provide access to the 
     data used by the Administrator to determine whether or not an 
     area is a HUBZone in the year in which the online tool was 
     prepared.
       ``(C) Notification of update.--The Administrator shall 
     include in the online tool a notification of the date on 
     which the online tool, and the data used to create the online 
     tool, will be updated.
       ``(8) List of qualified hubzone small business concerns.--
     The Administrator shall establish and publicly maintain on 
     the internet a list of qualified HUBZone small business 
     concerns that shall--
       ``(A) to the extent practicable, include the name, address, 
     and type of business with respect to such concern;
       ``(B) be updated by the Administrator not less than 
     annually; and
       ``(C) be provided upon request to any Federal agency or 
     other entity.
       ``(9) Provision of data.--Upon the request of the 
     Administrator, the Secretary of Labor, the Administrator of 
     the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Secretary of 
     Housing and Urban Development, and the Secretary of the 
     Interior (or the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs), 
     shall promptly provide to the Administrator such information 
     as the Administrator determines to be necessary to carry out 
     this subsection.
       ``(10) Penalties.--In addition to the penalties described 
     in section 16(d), any small business concern that is 
     determined by the Administrator to have misrepresented the 
     status of that concern as a `qualified HUBZone small business 
     concern' for purposes of this section shall be subject to 
     liability for fraud, including section 1001 of title 18, 
     United States Code, and sections 3729 through 3733 of title 
     31, United States Code.''.
       (2) Performance metrics.--Section 31 of the Small Business 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 657a) is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)--
       (i) by inserting ``(to be known as the HUBZone program)'' 
     after ``program''; and
       (ii) by inserting ``, including promoting economic 
     development in economically distressed areas (as defined in 
     section 7(m)(11)),'' after ``assistance'';
       (B) by redesignating subsection (e) (as redesignated by 
     subsection (a)) as subsection (f); and
       (C) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(e) Performance Metrics.--
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     the enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall 
     publish performance metrics designed to measure the success 
     of the HUBZone program established under this section in 
     meeting the program's objective of promoting economic 
     development in economically distressed areas (as defined in 
     section 7(m)(11)).
       ``(2) Collecting and managing hubzone data.--The 
     Administrator shall develop processes to incentivize each 
     regional office of the Administration to collect and manage 
     data on HUBZones within the geographic area served by such 
     regional office.
       ``(3) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the last day of 
     each fiscal year, the Administrator shall submit to the 
     Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
     Representatives a report analyzing the data from the 
     performance metrics established under this subsection and 
     including--
       ``(A) the number of HUBZone small business concerns that 
     lost certification as a qualified HUBZone small business 
     concern because of the results of an examination performed 
     under subsection (d)(5); and
       ``(B) the number of those concerns that did not submit 
     documentation to be recertified under subsection (d)(6).''.
       (3) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 31(f) of the 
     Small Business Act, as redesignated by paragraph (2), is 
     amended by striking ``fiscal years 2004 through 2006'' and 
     inserting ``fiscal years 2020 through 2025''.
       (i) Current Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns.--A 
     HUBZone small business concern that was qualified pursuant to 
     section 3(p)(5) of the Small Business Act on or before 
     December 31, 2019, shall continue to be considered as a 
     qualified HUBZone small business concern during the period 
     beginning on January 1, 2020, and ending on the date that the 
     Administrator of the Small Business Administration prepares 
     the online tool depicting qualified areas described under 
     section 31(d)(7) (as added by subsection (h) of this 
     section).
       (j) Effective Date.--The provisions of this section shall 
     take effect--
       (1) with respect to subsection (i), on the date of the 
     enactment of this section; and
       (2) with respect to subsections (a) through (h), on January 
     1, 2020.

     SEC. 1702. UNIFORMITY IN PROCUREMENT TERMINOLOGY.

       (a) In General.--Section 15(j)(1) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 644(j)(1)) is amended by striking ``greater than 
     $2,500 but not greater than $100,000'' and inserting 
     ``greater than the micro-purchase threshold, but not greater 
     than the simplified acquisition threshold''.
       (b) Amendment to Contracting Definitions.--Section 3(m) of 
     the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(m)) is amended to read 
     as follows:
       ``(m) Definitions Relating to Contracting.--In this Act:
       ``(1) Prime contract.--The term `prime contract' has the 
     meaning given such term in section 8701(4) of title 41, 
     United States Code.
       ``(2) Prime contractor.--The term `prime contractor' has 
     the meaning given such term in section 8701(5) of title 41, 
     United States Code.
       ``(3) Simplified acquisition threshold.--The term 
     `simplified acquisition threshold' has the meaning given such 
     term in section 134 of title 41, United States Code.
       ``(4) Micro-purchase threshold.--The term `micro-purchase 
     threshold' has the meaning given such term in section 1902 of 
     title 41, United States Code.
       ``(5) Total purchases and contracts for property and 
     services.--The term `total purchases and contracts for 
     property and services'

[[Page H8845]]

     shall mean total number and total dollar amount of contracts 
     and orders for property and services.''.
       (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 15(a)(1)(C) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(a)(1)(C)) is amended by striking 
     ``total purchase and contracts for goods and services'' and 
     inserting ``total purchases and contracts for goods and 
     services''.

     SEC. 1703. IMPROVING REPORTING ON SMALL BUSINESS GOALS.

       (a) In General.--Section 15(h)(2)(E) of the Small Business 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 644(h)(2)(E)) is amended--
       (1) in clause (i)--
       (A) in subclause (III), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(V) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns for 
     purposes of the initial contract; and
       ``(VI) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone 
     small business concerns, small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
     individuals, small business concerns owned and controlled by 
     women, or a subset of any such concerns;'';

       (2) in clause (ii)--
       (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(VI) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     and controlled by service-disabled veterans for purposes of 
     the initial contract; and
       ``(VII) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to qualified HUBZone small business 
     concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by 
     socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, small 
     business concerns owned and controlled by women, or a subset 
     of any such concerns;'';

       (3) in clause (iii)--
       (A) in subclause (V), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(VII) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be qualified HUBZone small 
     business concerns for purposes of the initial contract; and
       ``(VIII) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by service-disabled veterans, small business 
     concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
     disadvantaged individuals, small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by women, or a subset of any such concerns;'';

       (4) in clause (iv)--
       (A) in subclause (V), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(VII) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
     individuals for purposes of the initial contract; and
       ``(VIII) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone 
     small business concerns, small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by women, or a subset of any such concerns;'';

       (5) in clause (v)--
       (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subclause (V), by inserting ``and'' at the end; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

       ``(VI) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     by an Indian tribe other than an Alaska Native Corporation 
     for purposes of the initial contract;'';

       (6) in clause (vi)--
       (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subclause (V), by inserting ``and'' at the end; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

       ``(VI) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     by a Native Hawaiian Organization for purposes of the initial 
     contract;'';

       (7) in clause (vii)--
       (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

       ``(VI) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     by an Alaska Native Corporation for purposes of the initial 
     contract; and''; and

       (8) in clause (viii)--
       (A) in subclause (VII), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subclause (VIII), by striking ``and'' at the end; 
     and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(IX) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     and controlled by women for purposes of the initial contract; 
     and
       ``(X) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone 
     small business concerns, small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
     individuals, or a subset of any such concerns; and''.

       (b) Effective Date.--The Administrator of the Small 
     Business Administration shall be required to report on the 
     information required by clauses (i)(V), (ii)(VI), (iii)(VII), 
     (iv)(VII), (v)(VI), (vi)(VI), (vii)(VI), and (viii)(IX) of 
     section 15(h)(2)(E) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     644(h)(2)(E)) beginning on the date that such information is 
     available in the Federal Procurement Data System, the System 
     for Award Management, or any new or successor system.

     SEC. 1704. RESPONSIBILITIES OF BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
                   SPECIALISTS.

       Section 4(g) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 633(g)) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(g) Business Opportunity Specialists.--
       ``(1) Duties.--The exclusive duties of a Business 
     Opportunity Specialist employed by the Administrator and 
     reporting to the senior official appointed by the 
     Administrator with responsibilities under sections 8, 15, 31, 
     and 36 (or the designee of such official) shall be to 
     implement sections 7, 8, and 45 and to complete other duties 
     related to contracting programs under this Act. Such duties 
     shall include--
       ``(A) with respect to small business concerns eligible to 
     receive contracts and subcontracts pursuant to section 8(a)--
       ``(i) providing guidance, counseling, and referrals for 
     assistance with technical, management, financial, or other 
     matters that will improve the competitive viability of such 
     concerns;
       ``(ii) identifying causes of success or failure of such 
     concerns;
       ``(iii) providing comprehensive assessments of such 
     concerns, including identifying the strengths and weaknesses 
     of such concerns;
       ``(iv) monitoring and documenting compliance with the 
     requirements of sections 7 and 8 and any regulations 
     implementing those sections;
       ``(v) explaining the requirements of sections 7, 8, 15, 31, 
     36, and 45; and
       ``(vi) advising on compliance with contracting regulations 
     (including the Federal Acquisition Regulation) after award of 
     such a contract or subcontract;
       ``(B) reviewing and monitoring compliance with mentor-
     protege agreements under section 45;
       ``(C) representing the interests of the Administrator and 
     small business concerns in the award, modification, and 
     administration of contracts and subcontracts awarded pursuant 
     to section 8(a); and
       ``(D) reporting fraud or abuse under section 7, 8, 15, 31, 
     36, or 45 or any regulations implementing such sections.
       ``(2) Certification requirements.--
       ``(A) In general.--Consistent with the requirements of 
     subparagraph (B), a Business Opportunity Specialist described 
     under section 7(j)(10)(D) shall have a Level I Federal 
     Acquisition Certification in Contracting (or any successor 
     certification) or the equivalent Department of Defense 
     certification.
       ``(B) Delay of certification requirement.--The 
     certification described in subparagraph (A) is not required--
       ``(i) for any person serving as a Business Opportunity 
     Specialist on the date of the enactment of this subsection, 
     until the date that is one calendar year after the date such 
     person was appointed as a Business Opportunity Specialist; or
       ``(ii) for any person serving as a Business Opportunity 
     Specialist on or before January 3, 2013, until January 3, 
     2020.
       ``(3) Job posting requirements.--The duties and 
     certification requirements described in this subsection shall 
     be included in any initial job posting for the position of a 
     Business Opportunity Specialist.''.

     SEC. 1705. RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMERCIAL MARKET 
                   REPRESENTATIVES.

       Section 4(h) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 633(h)) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(h) Commercial Market Representatives.--
       ``(1) Duties.--The principal duties of a commercial market 
     representative employed by the Administrator and reporting to 
     the senior official appointed by the Administrator with 
     responsibilities under sections 8, 15, 31, and 36 (or the 
     designee of the official) shall be to advance the policies 
     established in section 8(d)(1) relating to subcontracting, 
     including--
       ``(A) helping prime contractors to find small business 
     concerns that are capable of performing subcontracts;
       ``(B) for contractors awarded contracts containing the 
     clause described in section 8(d)(3), providing--
       ``(i) counseling on the responsibility of the contractor to 
     maximize subcontracting opportunities for small business 
     concerns;
       ``(ii) instruction on methods and tools to identify 
     potential subcontractors that are small business concerns; 
     and
       ``(iii) assistance to increase awards to subcontractors 
     that are small business concerns through visits, training, 
     and reviews of past performance;
       ``(C) providing counseling on how a small business concern 
     may promote the capacity of the small business concern to 
     contractors awarded contracts containing the clause described 
     in section 8(d)(3); and

[[Page H8846]]

       ``(D) conducting periodic reviews of contractors awarded 
     contracts containing the clause described in section 8(d)(3) 
     to assess compliance with subcontracting plans required under 
     section 8(d)(6).
       ``(2) Certification requirements.--
       ``(A) In general.--Consistent with the requirements of 
     subparagraph (B), a commercial market representative referred 
     to in section 15(q)(3) shall have a Level I Federal 
     Acquisition Certification in Contracting (or any successor 
     certification) or the equivalent Department of Defense 
     certification.
       ``(B) Delay of certification requirement.--The 
     certification described in subparagraph (A) is not required--
       ``(i) for any person serving as a commercial market 
     representative on the date of enactment of this subsection, 
     until the date that is one calendar year after the date on 
     which the person was appointed as a commercial market 
     representative; or
       ``(ii) for any person serving as a commercial market 
     representative on or before November 25, 2015, until November 
     25, 2020.
       ``(3) Job posting requirements.--The duties and 
     certification requirements described in this subsection shall 
     be included in any initial job posting for the position of a 
     commercial market representative.''.

     SEC. 1706. MODIFICATION OF PAST PERFORMANCE PILOT PROGRAM TO 
                   INCLUDE CONSIDERATION OF PAST PERFORMANCE WITH 
                   ALLIES OF THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) In General.--Section 8(d)(17) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(17)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (G)--
       (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``and, set forth 
     separately, the number of small business exporters,'' after 
     ``small business concerns''; and
       (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``, set forth separately 
     by applications from small business concerns and from small 
     business exporters,'' after ``applications''; and
       (2) by amending subparagraph (H) to read as follows:
       ``(H) Definitions.--In this paragraph--
       ``(i) the term `appropriate official' means--
       ``(I) a commercial market representative;
       ``(II) another individual designated by the senior official 
     appointed by the Administrator with responsibilities under 
     sections 8, 15, 31, and 36; or
       ``(III) the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
     Utilization of a Federal agency, if the head of the Federal 
     agency and the Administrator agree;
       ``(ii) the term `defense item' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 38(j)(4)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act 
     (22 U.S.C. 2778(j)(4)(A));
       ``(iii) the term `major non-NATO ally' means a country 
     designated as a major non-NATO ally under section 517 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321k);
       ``(iv) the term `past performance' includes performance of 
     a contract for a sale of defense items (under section 38 of 
     the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778)) to the 
     government of a member nation of North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization, the government of a major non-NATO ally, or the 
     government of a country with which the United States has a 
     defense cooperation agreement (as certified by the Secretary 
     of State); and
       ``(v) the term `small business exporter' means a small 
     business concern that exports defense items under section 38 
     of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) to the 
     government of a member nation of the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization, the government of a major non-NATO ally, or the 
     government of a country with which the United States has a 
     defense cooperation agreement (as certified by the Secretary 
     of State).''.
       (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 8(d)(17)(A) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(17)(A)) is amended by striking 
     ``paragraph 13(A)'' and inserting ``paragraph (13)(A)''.

     SEC. 1707. NOTICE OF COST-FREE FEDERAL PROCUREMENT TECHNICAL 
                   ASSISTANCE IN CONNECTION WITH REGISTRATION OF 
                   SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS ON PROCUREMENT WEBSITES 
                   OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
     procedures to ensure that any notice or direct communication 
     regarding the registration of a small business concern on a 
     website maintained by the Department of Defense relating to 
     contracting opportunities contains information about cost-
     free Federal procurement technical assistance services that 
     are available through a procurement technical assistance 
     program established under chapter 142 of title 10, United 
     States Code.
       (b) Small Business Concern Defined.--The term ``small 
     business concern'' has the meaning given such term under 
     section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).

     SEC. 1708. INCLUSION OF SBIR AND STTR PROGRAMS IN TECHNICAL 
                   ASSISTANCE.

       Subsection (c) of section 2418 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``issued under'' and inserting the 
     following: ``issued--
       ``(1) under'';
       (2) by striking ``and on'' and inserting ``, and on'';
       (3) by striking ``requirements.'' and inserting 
     ``requirements; and''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     638), and on compliance with those requirements.''.

     SEC. 1709. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES 
                   AND JUSTIFICATION FOR AWARDS UNDER THE SBIR AND 
                   STTR PROGRAMS.

       (a) In General.--Section 9(r)(4) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 638(r)(4)) is amended by striking ``shall issue 
     Phase III awards'' and inserting the following: ``shall--
       ``(A) consider an award under the SBIR program or the STTR 
     program to satisfy the requirements under section 2304 of 
     title 10, United States Code, and any other applicable 
     competition requirements; and
       ``(B) issue, without further justification, Phase III 
     awards''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) Small business act.--Section 9(r) of the Small Business 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 638(r)) is amended--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``, Competitive 
     Procedures, and Justification for Awards'' after 
     ``Agreements''; and
       (B) by amending the heading for paragraph (4) to read as 
     follows: ``Competitive procedures and justification for 
     awards''.
       (2) Title 10.--Section 2304(f) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and paragraph (6)'' 
     after ``paragraph (2)''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(6) The justification and approval required by paragraph 
     (1) is not required in the case of a Phase III award made 
     pursuant to section 9(r)(4) of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 638(r)(4)).''.

     SEC. 1710. PILOT PROGRAM FOR STREAMLINED TECHNOLOGY 
                   TRANSITION FROM THE SBIR AND STTR PROGRAMS OF 
                   THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the terms ``commercialization'', ``Federal agency'', 
     ``Phase I'', ``Phase II'', ``Phase III'', ``SBIR'', and 
     ``STTR'' have the meanings given those terms in section 9(e) 
     of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e));
       (2) the term ``covered small business concern'' means--
       (A) a small business concern that completed a Phase II 
     award under the SBIR or STTR program of the Department; or
       (B) a small business concern that--
       (i) completed a Phase I award under the SBIR or STTR 
     program of the Department; and
       (ii) a contracting officer for the Department recommended 
     for inclusion in a multiple award contract described in 
     subsection (b);
       (1) the term ``Department'' means the Department of 
     Defense;
       (2) the term ``military department'' has the meaning given 
     the term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code;
       (3) the term ``multiple award contract'' has the meaning 
     given the term in section 3302(a) of title 41, United States 
     Code;
       (4) the term ``pilot program'' means the pilot program 
     established under subsection (b); and
       (5) the term ``small business concern'' has the meaning 
     given the term in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 632).
       (b) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish a pilot program under which the Department shall 
     award multiple award contracts to covered small business 
     concerns for the purchase of technologies, supplies, or 
     services that the covered small business concern has 
     developed through the SBIR or STTR program.
       (c) Waiver of Competition in Contracting Act 
     Requirements.--The Secretary of Defense may establish 
     procedures to waive provisions of section 2304 of title 10, 
     United States Code, for purposes of carrying out the pilot 
     program.
       (d) Use of Contract Vehicle.--A multiple award contract 
     described in subsection (b) may be used by any military 
     department or component of the Department.
       (e) Termination.--The pilot program established under this 
     section shall terminate on September 30, 2023.
       (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to prevent the commercialization of products and 
     services produced by a small business concern under an SBIR 
     or STTR program of a Federal agency through--
       (1) direct awards for Phase III of an SBIR or STTR program; 
     or
       (2) any other contract vehicle.

     SEC. 1711. PILOT PROGRAM ON STRENGTHENING MANUFACTURING IN 
                   THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE.

       (a) Pilot Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
     advisability of increasing the capability of the defense 
     industrial base to support--
       (1) production needs to meet military requirements; and
       (2) manufacturing and production of emerging defense and 
     commercial technologies.
       (b) Authorities.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
     program under the following:
       (1) Chapters 137 and 139 and sections 2371, 2371b, and 2373 
     of title 10, United States Code.
       (2) Such other legal authorities as the Secretary considers 
     applicable to carrying out the pilot program.
       (c) Activities.--Activities under the pilot program may 
     include the following:
       (1) Use of contracts, grants, or other transaction 
     authorities to support manufacturing and production 
     capabilities in small- and medium-sized manufacturers.
       (2) Purchases of goods or equipment for testing and 
     certification purposes.
       (3) Incentives, including purchase commitments and cost 
     sharing with nongovernmental sources, for the private sector 
     to develop manufacturing and production capabilities in areas 
     of national security interest.
       (4) Issuing loans or providing loan guarantees to small- 
     and medium-sized manufacturers to support manufacturing and 
     production capabilities in areas of national security 
     interest.
       (5) Giving awards to third party entities to support 
     investments in small- and medium-sized manufacturers working 
     in areas of national security interest, including debt and 
     equity investments that would benefit missions of the 
     Department of Defense.

[[Page H8847]]

       (6) Such other activities as the Secretary determines 
     necessary.
       (d) Termination.--The pilot program shall terminate on the 
     date that is four years after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act.
       (e) Briefing Required.--No later than January 31, 2022, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall provide a briefing to the 
     Committees on Armed Services in the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives on the results of the pilot program.

     SEC. 1712. REVIEW REGARDING APPLICABILITY OF FOREIGN 
                   OWNERSHIP, CONTROL, OR INFLUENCE REQUIREMENTS 
                   OF NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM TO 
                   NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE 
                   COMPANIES.

       (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence 
     of the Secretary of State and after consultation with the 
     Director of the Information Security Oversight Office, shall 
     review whether organizations whose ownership or majority 
     control is based in a country that is part of the national 
     technology and industrial base should be exempted from one or 
     more of the foreign ownership, control, or influence 
     requirements of the National Industrial Security Program.
       (b) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may establish a 
     program to exempt organizations described under subsection 
     (a) from one or more of the foreign ownership, control, or 
     influence requirements of the National Industrial Security 
     Program. Any such program shall comply with the requirements 
     of this subsection.
       (1) In general.--Under a program established under this 
     subsection, the Secretary, with the concurrence of the 
     Secretary of State and after consultation with the Director 
     of the Information Security Oversight Office, shall maintain 
     a list of organizations owned or controlled by a country that 
     is part of the national technology and industrial base that 
     are eligible for exemption from the requirements described 
     under such subsection.
       (2) Determinations of eligibility.--Under a program 
     established under this subsection, the Secretary of Defense, 
     with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and after 
     consultation with the Director of the Information Security 
     Oversight Office, may (on a case-by-case basis and for the 
     purpose of supporting specific needs of the Department of 
     Defense) designate an organization whose ownership or 
     majority control is based in a country that is part of the 
     national technology and industrial base as exempt from the 
     requirements described under subsection (a) upon a 
     determination that such exemption--
       (A) is beneficial to improving collaboration within 
     countries that are a part of the national technology and 
     industrial base;
       (B) is in the national security interest of the United 
     States; and
       (C) will not result in a greater risk of the disclosure of 
     classified or sensitive information consistent with the 
     National Industrial Security Program.
       (3) Exercise of authority.--The authority under this 
     subsection may be exercised beginning on the date that is the 
     later of--
       (A) the date that is 60 days after the Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
     Director of the Information Security Oversight Office, 
     submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     summarizing the review conducted under subsection (a); and
       (B) the date that is 30 days after the Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
     Director of the Information Security Oversight Office, 
     submits to the appropriate congressional committees a written 
     notification of a determination made under paragraph (2), 
     including a discussion of the issues related to the foreign 
     ownership or control of the organization that were considered 
     as part of the determination.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the meaning 
     given the term in section 301 of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (2) National technology and industrial base.--the term 
     ``national technology and industrial base'' has the meaning 
     given the term in section 2500 of title 10, United States 
     Code.

     SEC. 1713. REPORT ON SOURCING OF TUNGSTEN AND TUNGSTEN 
                   POWDERS FROM DOMESTIC PRODUCERS.

       (a) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
     procurement of tungsten and tungsten powders for military 
     applications.
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) An overview of the quantities and countries of origin 
     of tungsten and tungsten powders that are procured by the 
     Department of Defense or prime contractors of the Department 
     for military applications.
       (2) An evaluation of the effects on the Department if the 
     Secretary of Defense prioritizes the procurement of tungsten 
     and tungsten powders from only domestic producers.
       (3) An evaluation of the effects on the Department if 
     tungsten and tungsten powders are required to be procured 
     from only domestic producers.
       (4) An estimate of any costs associated with domestic 
     sourcing requirements related to tungsten and tungsten 
     powders.

     SEC. 1714. REPORT ON UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS 
                   FOR FEDERAL CONTRACTS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
       (1) since the passage of the Budget Control Act of 2011 
     (Public Law 112-25; 125 Stat. 240), many Federal agencies 
     have started favoring longer-term Federal contracts, 
     including multiple award contracts, over direct individual 
     awards;
       (2) these multiple award contracts have grown to more than 
     one-fifth of Federal contract spending, with the fastest 
     growing multiple award contracts each surpassing $100,000,000 
     in obligations for the first time between 2013 and 2014;
       (3) in fiscal year 2017, 17 of the 20 largest Federal 
     contract opportunities are multiple award contracts;
       (4) while Federal agencies may choose to use any or all of 
     the various socioeconomic groups on a multiple award 
     contract, the Small Business Administration only examines the 
     performance of socioeconomic groups through the small 
     business procurement scorecard and does not examine potential 
     opportunities for those groups; and
       (5) Congress and the Department of Justice have been clear 
     that no individual socioeconomic group shall be given 
     preference over another.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
     the Small Business Administration;
       (2) the term ``covered small business concerns'' means--
       (A) qualified HUBZone small business concerns;
       (B) small business concerns owned and controlled by 
     service-disabled veterans;
       (C) small business concerns owned and controlled by women; 
     and
       (D) small business concerns owned and controlled by 
     socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, as 
     defined under section 8(d)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C)); and
       (3) the terms ``qualified HUBZone small business concern'', 
     ``small business concern'', ``small business concern owned 
     and controlled by service-disabled veterans'', and ``small 
     business concern owned and controlled by women'' have the 
     meanings given those terms in section 3 of the Small Business 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
       (c) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
     Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
     Representatives a report that includes--
       (A) a determination as to whether small business concerns 
     and each category of covered small business concern are being 
     utilized in a significant portion of the multiple award 
     contracts awarded by the Federal Government, including--
       (i) whether awards are reserved for concerns in 1 or more 
     of those categories; and
       (ii) whether concerns in each such category are given the 
     opportunity to perform on multiple award contracts;
       (B) a determination as to whether performance requirements 
     for multiple award contracts, as in effect on the day before 
     the date of enactment of this Act, are feasible and 
     appropriate for small business concerns and covered small 
     business concerns; and
       (C) any additional information as the Administrator may 
     determine necessary.
       (2) Requirement.--In making the determinations required 
     under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall use 
     information--
       (A) from multiple award contracts with varied assigned 
     North American Industry Classification System codes; and
       (B) about the awards of multiple award contracts from not 
     less than eight Federal agencies.

           TITLE XVIII--GOVERNMENT PURCHASE AND TRAVEL CARDS

Sec. 1801. Short title.
Sec. 1802. Definitions.
Sec. 1803. Expanded use of data analytics.
Sec. 1804. Guidance on improving information sharing to curb improper 
              payments.
Sec. 1805. Interagency charge card data management group.
Sec. 1806. Reporting requirements.

     SEC. 1801. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``Saving Federal Dollars 
     Through Better Use of Government Purchase and Travel Cards 
     Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 1802. DEFINITIONS.

       In this title:
       (1) Improper payment.--The term ``improper payment'' has 
     the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Improper 
     Payments Information Act of 2002 (31 U.S.C. 3321 note).
       (2) Questionable transaction.--The term ``questionable 
     transaction'' means a charge card transaction that from 
     initial card data appears to be high risk and may therefore 
     be improper due to non-compliance with applicable law, 
     regulation or policy.
       (3) Strategic sourcing.--The term ``strategic sourcing'' 
     means analyzing and modifying a Federal agency's spending 
     patterns to better leverage its purchasing power, reduce 
     costs, and improve overall performance.

     SEC. 1803. EXPANDED USE OF DATA ANALYTICS.

       (a) Strategy.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of 
     Management and Budget, in consultation with the Administrator 
     for General Services, shall develop a strategy to expand the 
     use of data analytics in managing government purchase and 
     travel charge card programs. These analytics may employ 
     existing General Services Administration capabilities, and 
     may be in conjunction with agencies' capabilities, for the 
     purpose of--
       (1) identifying examples or patterns of questionable 
     transactions and developing enhanced tools and methods for 
     agency use in--
       (A) identifying questionable purchase and travel card 
     transactions; and
       (B) recovering improper payments made with purchase and 
     travel cards;

[[Page H8848]]

       (2) identifying potential opportunities for agencies to 
     further leverage administrative process streamlining and cost 
     reduction from purchase and travel card use, including 
     additional agency opportunities for card-based strategic 
     sourcing;
       (3) developing a set of purchase and travel card metrics 
     and benchmarks for high-risk activities, which shall assist 
     agencies in identifying potential emphasis areas for their 
     purchase and travel card management and oversight activities, 
     including those required by the Government Charge Card Abuse 
     Prevention Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-194); and
       (4) developing a plan, which may be based on existing 
     capabilities, to create a library of analytics tools and data 
     sources for use by Federal agencies (including inspectors 
     general of those agencies).

     SEC. 1804. GUIDANCE ON IMPROVING INFORMATION SHARING TO CURB 
                   IMPROPER PAYMENTS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of 
     Management and Budget, in consultation with the Administrator 
     of General Services and the interagency charge card data 
     management group established under section 1805, shall issue 
     guidance on improving information sharing by government 
     agencies for the purposes of section 1803(a)(1).
       (b) Elements.--The guidance issued under subsection (a) 
     shall--
       (1) require relevant officials at Federal agencies to 
     identify high-risk activities and communicate that 
     information to the appropriate management levels within the 
     agencies;
       (2) require that appropriate officials at Federal agencies 
     review the reports issued by charge card-issuing banks on 
     questionable transaction activity (such as purchase and 
     travel card pre-suspension and suspension reports, 
     delinquency reports, and exception reports), including 
     transactions that occur with high-risk activities, and 
     suspicious timing or amounts of cash withdrawals or advances;
       (3) provide for the appropriate sharing of information 
     related to potential questionable transactions, fraud 
     schemes, and high-risk activities with the General Services 
     Administration and the appropriate officials in Federal 
     agencies;
       (4) consider the recommendations made by Inspectors General 
     or the best practices Inspectors General have identified; and
       (5) include other requirements determined appropriate by 
     the Director for the purposes of carrying out this title.

     SEC. 1805. INTERAGENCY CHARGE CARD DATA MANAGEMENT GROUP.

       (a) Establishment.--The Administrator of General Services 
     and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
     establish a purchase and travel charge card data management 
     group to develop and share best practices for the purposes 
     described in section 1803(a).
       (b) Elements.--The best practices developed under 
     subsection (a) shall--
       (1) cover rules, edits, and task order or contract 
     modifications related to charge card-issuing banks;
       (2) include the review of accounts payable information and 
     purchase and travel card transaction data of agencies for the 
     purpose of identifying potential strategic sourcing and other 
     additional opportunities (such as recurring payments, utility 
     payments, and grant payments) for which the charge cards or 
     related payment products could be used as a payment method; 
     and
       (3) include other best practices as determined by the 
     Administrator and Director.
       (c) Membership.--The purchase and travel charge card data 
     management group shall meet regularly as determined by the 
     co-chairs, for a duration of three years, and include those 
     agencies as described in section 2 of the Government Charge 
     Card Abuse Prevention Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-194) and 
     others identified by the Administrator and Director.

     SEC. 1806. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) General Services Administration Report.--Not later than 
     one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Administrator for General Services shall submit to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
     the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform of the House of Representatives a report on the 
     implementation of this title, including the metrics used in 
     determining whether the analytic and benchmarking efforts 
     have reduced, or contributed to the reduction of, 
     questionable transactions or improper payments as well as 
     improved utilization of card-based payment products.
       (b) Agency Reports and Consolidated Report to Congress.--
     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the head of each Federal agency described in 
     section 2 of the Government Charge Card Abuse Prevention Act 
     of 2012 (Public Law 112-194) shall submit a report to the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget on that 
     agency's activities to implement this title.
       (c) Office of Management and Budget Report to Congress.--
     The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
     submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform of the House of Representatives a 
     consolidated report of agency activities to implement this 
     title, which may be included as part of another report 
     submitted by the Director to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (d) Report on Additional Savings Opportunities.--Not later 
     than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     the Administrator of General Services shall submit to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
     the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform of the House of Representatives a report identifying 
     and exploring further potential savings opportunities for 
     government agencies under the Federal charge card programs. 
     This report may be combined with the report required under 
     subsection (a).

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

     SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

       This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018''.

     SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED 
                   TO BE SPECIFIED BY LAW.

       (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Five Years.--Except 
     as provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained 
     in titles XXI through XXVII for military construction 
     projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and 
     facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations 
     of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later of--
       (1) October 1, 2022; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
     for military construction for fiscal year 2023.
       (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     authorizations for military construction projects, land 
     acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and 
     contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
     appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have 
     been obligated before the later of--
       (1) October 1, 2022; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
     for fiscal year 2023 for military construction projects, land 
     acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
     contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Security Investment Program.
       (c) Extension of Authorizations of Fiscal Year 2016 and 
     Fiscal Year 2017 Projects.--
       (1) Fiscal year 2016 projects.--Section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1145) is 
     amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
     ``2020''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2021''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
     ``2020''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2021''.
       (2) Fiscal year 2017 projects.--Section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (division B of Public Law 114-328; 129 Stat. 1145) is 
     amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2021''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2020'' and inserting 
     ``2022''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2021''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2020'' and inserting 
     ``2022''.

     SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.

       Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect 
     on the later of--
       (1) October 1, 2017; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2104. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2014 project.
Sec. 2106. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2015 project.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2014 
              project.
Sec. 2108. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.
Sec. 2109. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2000, 
              2005, 2006, and 2007 projects.

     SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a) and available for military construction projects 
     inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

[[Page H8849]]



                     Army: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State                   Installation            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................  Fort Rucker...........       $38,000,000
Arizona.......................  Davis-Monthan Air            $22,000,000
                                 Force Base...........
                                Fort Huachuca.........       $30,000,000
California....................  Fort Irwin............        $3,000,000
Colorado......................  Fort Carson...........       $29,300,000
Florida.......................  Eglin Air Force Base..       $18,000,000
Georgia.......................  Fort Benning..........       $38,800,000
                                Fort Gordon...........       $51,500,000
Hawaii........................  Pohakuloa Training           $25,000,000
                                 Area.................
Indiana.......................  Crane Army Ammunition        $24,000,000
                                 Plant................
New York......................  U.S. Military Academy.       $22,000,000
South Carolina................  Fort Jackson..........       $60,000,000
                                Shaw Air Force Base...       $25,000,000
Texas.........................  Camp Bullis...........       $13,600,000
                                Fort Hood.............       $70,000,000
Virginia......................  Joint Base Langley-          $34,000,000
                                 Eustis...............
                                Joint Base Myer-             $20,000,000
                                 Henderson............
Washington....................  Joint Base Lewis-            $66,000,000
                                 McChord..............
                                Yakima................       $19,500,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a) and available for military construction projects 
     outside the United States as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out the military construction project for 
     the installations or locations outside the United States, and 
     in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                     Army: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Country                   Installation             Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Germany.....................   Stuttgart..............      $40,000,000
                                Weisbaden..............      $43,000,000
Korea........................  Kunsan Air Base.........      $53,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.

       (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 2104(a) and available for military family housing 
     functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
     the Secretary of the Army may construct or acquire family 
     housing units (including land acquisition and supporting 
     facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
     of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following 
     table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                      Installation                    Units                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.................................   Fort Gordon..............  Family Housing New              $6,100,000
                                                                       Construction.............
Germany.................................  South Camp Vilseck........  Family Housing New             $22,445,000
                                                                       Construction.............
Kwajalein...............................  Kwajalein Atoll...........  Family Housing Replacement     $31,000,000
                                                                       Construction.............
Massachusetts...........................  Natick....................  Family Housing Replacement     $21,000,000
                                                                       Construction.............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a) and available for military family housing functions 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
     Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural and 
     engineering services and construction design activities with 
     respect to the construction or improvement of family housing 
     units in an amount not to exceed $33,559,000.

     SEC. 2103. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2104(a) and available for 
     military family housing functions as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may improve 
     existing military family housing units in an amount not to 
     exceed $34,156,000.

     SEC. 2104. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning 
     after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land 
     acquisition, and military family housing functions of the 
     Department of the Army as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2101 may not exceed the total 
     amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601.

     SEC. 2105. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2014 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization contained in the table in 
     section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 
     127 Stat. 986) for Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Washington, for 
     construction of an airfield operations complex, the Secretary 
     of the Army may construct standby generator capacity of 1,000 
     kilowatts.

     SEC. 2106. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2015 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization contained in the table in 
     section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3670) for Fort Shafter, Hawaii, for construction of 
     a command and control facility, the Secretary of

[[Page H8850]]

     the Army may construct 15 megawatts of redundant power 
     generation for a total project amount of $370,000,000.

     SEC. 2107. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2014 PROJECT.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
     (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the 
     authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2101 of that Act (127 Stat. 986), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                                  Army: Extension of 2014 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         Installation or
          State or Country                  Location                   Project                    Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan..............................  Kyogamisaki...........  Company Operations Complex              $33,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2108. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2101 of that Act (128 Stat. 3670), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         Installation or
           State/Country                    Location                   Project                    Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California.........................  Military Ocean          Access Control Point......               $9,900,000
                                      Terminal Concord.....
 Hawaii............................  Fort Shafter..........  Command and Control                    $370,000,000
                                                              Facility (SCIF)..........
Japan..............................  Kadena Air Base.......  Missile Magazine..........              $10,600,000
Texas..............................  Fort Hood.............  Simulation Center.........              $46,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2109. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL 
                   YEAR 2000, 2005, 2006, AND 2007 PROJECTS.

       (a) Project Authorization.--In connection with the 
     authorizations contained in the tables in section 2101(a) of 
     the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2000 (division B of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 825), 
     section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (division B of Public Law 108-375; 
     118 Stat. 2101), section 2101(a) of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (division B of Public 
     Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3485), and section 2101(a) of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 
     (division B of Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2445) for Fort 
     Irwin, California, for Land Acquisition - National Training 
     Center, Phases 1 through 4, the Secretary of the Army may 
     carry out military construction projects to complete the land 
     acquisitions within the initial scope of the projects.
       (b) Congressional Notification.--The Secretary of the Army 
     shall provide information in accordance with section 2851(c) 
     of title 10, United States Code, regarding the projects 
     described in subsection (a).

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Extension of authorizations for certain fiscal year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2206. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

     SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a) and available for military construction projects 
     inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.......................................  Yuma............................................     $36,358,000
California....................................  Barstow.........................................     $36,539,000
                                                Camp Pendleton..................................     $61,139,000
                                                Coronado........................................     $36,000,000
                                                Lemoore.........................................     $60,828,000
                                                Miramar.........................................     $47,600,000
                                                Twentynine Palms................................     $55,099,000
Florida.......................................  Mayport.........................................     $84,818,000
Georgia.......................................  Albany..........................................     $43,300,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas...........................    $284,679,000
Hawaii........................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam..................     $73,200,000
                                                Kaneohe Bay.....................................     $26,492,000
                                                Wahiawa.........................................     $65,864,000
Maine.........................................  Kittery.........................................     $61,692,000
North Carolina................................  Camp Lejeune....................................    $103,767,000
                                                Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station...........     $15,671,000
Virginia......................................  Dam Neck........................................     $29,262,000
                                                Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story.....      $2,596,000
                                                Portsmouth......................................     $72,990,000
                                                Quantico........................................     $23,738,000
                                                Yorktown........................................     $36,358,000

[[Page H8851]]

 
Washington....................................  Indian Island...................................     $44,440,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a) and available for military construction projects 
     outside the United States as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installation or location outside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greece........................................  Souda Bay.......................................     $22,045,000
 Japan........................................  Iwakuni.........................................     $21,860,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.

       (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 2204(a) and available for military family housing 
     functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
     the Secretary of the Navy may construct or acquire family 
     housing units (including land acquisition and supporting 
     facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
     of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following 
     table:

                                              Navy: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Country                         Installation                    Units                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain Island..........................  SW Asia...................  Construct On-Base GFOQ....      $2,138,000
Mariana Islands.........................  Guam......................  Replace Andersen Housing       $40,875,000
                                                                       PH II....................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a) and available for military family housing functions 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
     Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and 
     engineering services and construction design activities with 
     respect to the construction or improvement of family housing 
     units in an amount not to exceed $4,418,000.

     SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for 
     military family housing functions as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may improve 
     existing military family housing units in an amount not to 
     exceed $36,251,000.

     SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning 
     after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land 
     acquisition, and military family housing functions of the 
     Department of the Navy, as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2201 may not exceed the total 
     amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601.

     SEC. 2205. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS FOR CERTAIN FISCAL 
                   YEAR 2014 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
     (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2201 of that Act (127 Stat. 989) and 
     extended by section 2207 of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of Public 
     Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2694), shall remain in effect until 
     October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
     authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 
     2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                    Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Illinois................................   Great Lakes..............  Unaccompanied Housing.....     $35,851,000
Nevada..................................  Fallon....................  Wastewater Treatment Plant     $11,334,000
Virginia................................  Quantico..................  Fuller Road Improvements..      $9,013,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2206. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2201 of that Act (128 Stat. 3675), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                    Installation or Location           Project                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 District of Columbia..................  NSA Washington...........  Electronics Science and          $37,882,000
                                                                     Technology Lab..........
Maryland...............................  Indian Head..............  Advanced Energetics              $15,346,000
                                                                     Research Lab Complex
                                                                     Phase 2.................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page H8852]]

  


              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
              projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2017 projects.
Sec. 2306. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

     SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2304(a) and available for military construction projects 
     inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                   Air Force: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Installation or
            State                     Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska.......................  Eielson Air Force Base       $168,900,000
Arkansas.....................  Little Rock Air Force         $20,000,000
                                Base.
California...................   Travis Air Force Base       $114,700,000
Colorado.....................   Buckley Air Force            $38,000,000
                                Base.
                               Fort Carson...........        $13,000,000
                               U.S. Air Force Academy        $30,000,000
Florida......................   Eglin Air Force Base.        $90,700,000
                               MacDill Air Force Base         $8,100,000
                               Tyndall Air Force Base        $17,000,000
Georgia......................  Robins Air Force Base.         $9,800,000
Kansas.......................   McConnell Air Force          $17,500,000
                                Base.
Maryland.....................  Joint Base Andrews....       $271,500,000
Nevada.......................  Nellis Air Force Base.        $61,000,000
New Jersey...................  McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst.       $146,500,000
New Mexico...................  Cannon Air Force Base.        $42,000,000
                               Holloman Air Force             $4,250,000
                                Base.
                               Kirtland Air Force             $9,300,000
                                Base.
North Dakota.................   Minot Air Force Base.        $27,000,000
Ohio.........................  Wright-Patterson Air           $6,800,000
                                Force Base.
Oklahoma.....................   Altus Air Force Base.        $20,900,000
Texas........................  Joint Base San Antonio       $156,630,000
Utah.........................  Hill Air Force Base...        $28,000,000
Wyoming......................  F.E. Warren Air Force         $62,000,000
                                Base.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2304(a) and available for military construction projects 
     outside the United States as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire 
     real property and carry out military construction projects 
     for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
     and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia......................................   Darwin.....................................        $76,000,000
United Kingdom.................................  RAF Fairford................................        $45,650,000
                                                 RAF Lakenheath..............................       $136,992,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military 
     family housing functions as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out 
     architectural and engineering services and construction 
     design activities with respect to the construction or 
     improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
     exceed $4,445,000.

     SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for 
     military family housing functions as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
     improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
     not to exceed $80,617,000.

     SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning 
     after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land 
     acquisition, and military family housing functions of the 
     Department of the Air Force, as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2301 may not exceed the total 
     amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601.

     SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2017 PROJECTS.

       (a) Hanscom Air Force Base.--In the case of the 
     authorization contained in the table in section 2301(a) of 
     the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2696) for 
     Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts, for construction of a 
     gate complex at the installation, the Secretary of the Air 
     Force may construct a visitor control center of 187 square 
     meters, a traffic check house of 294 square meters, and an 
     emergency power generator system and transfer switch 
     consistent with the Air Force's construction guidelines.
       (b) Mariana Islands.--In the case of the authorization 
     contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2697) for acquiring 142 
     hectares of land at an unspecified location in the Mariana 
     Islands, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire 142 
     hectares of land on Tinian in the Northern Mariana Islands 
     for a cost of $21,900,000.
       (c) Chabelley Airfield.--In the case of the authorization 
     contained in the table in section 2902 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2743) for Chabelley 
     Airfield, Djibouti, for construction of a parking

[[Page H8853]]

     apron and taxiway at that location, the Secretary of the Air 
     Force may construct 20,490 square meters of taxiway and 
     apron, 8,230 square meters of paved shoulders, 10,650 square 
     meters of hangar pads, and 3,900 square meters of cargo 
     apron.
       (d) Scott Air Force Base.--The table in section 4601 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2877) is amended 
     in the item relating to Scott Air Force Base, Illinois, by 
     striking ``Consolidated Corrosion Facility add/alter.'' in 
     the project title column and inserting ``Consolidated 
     Communication Facility add/alter.''.

     SEC. 2306. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2301 of that Act (128 Stat. 3679), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2015 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                          Installation                   Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska..................................  Clear Air Force Station...  Emergency Power Plant Fuel     $11,500,000
                                                                       Storage..................
Oklahoma................................  Tinker Air Force Base.....  KC-46 Two-Bay Maintenance      $63,000,000
                                                                       Hangar...................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy resiliency and conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2017 project.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

     SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2403(a) and available for military construction projects 
     inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska..........................................  Fort Greely................................       $200,000,000
California......................................  Camp Pendleton.............................        $43,642,000
                                                  Coronado...................................       $258,735,000
Colorado........................................  Schriever Air Force Base...................        $10,200,000
Florida.........................................  Eglin Air Force Base.......................         $9,100,000
                                                  Hurlburt Field.............................        $46,400,000
Georgia.........................................  Fort Gordon................................        $10,350,000
Guam............................................  Andersen Air Force Base....................        $23,900,000
Hawaii..........................................  Kunia......................................         $5,000,000
Missouri........................................  Fort Leonard Wood..........................       $393,241,000
                                                  St. Louis..................................       $381,000,000
 New Mexico.....................................  Cannon Air Force Base......................         $8,228,000
 North Carolina.................................  Camp Lejeune...............................        $90,039,000
                                                  Fort Bragg.................................        $57,778,000
                                                  Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.............        $20,000,000
South Carolina..................................  Shaw Air Force Base........................        $22,900,000
Utah............................................  Hill Air Force Base........................        $20,000,000
Virginia........................................  Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story        $23,000,000
                                                  Norfolk....................................        $18,500,000
                                                  Pentagon...................................        $50,100,000
                                                  Portsmouth.................................        $22,500,000
Worldwide Unspecified...........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations............        $64,364,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2403(a) and available for military construction projects 
     outside the United States as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations outside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.........................................  Spangdahlem Air Base.......................        $79,141,000
                                                  Stuttgart..................................        $46,609,000
Greece..........................................  Souda Bay..................................        $18,100,000
Italy...........................................  Vicenza....................................        $62,406,000
Japan...........................................   Iwakuni...................................        $30,800,000
                                                  Kadena Air Base............................        $27,573,000

[[Page H8854]]

 
                                                  Okinawa....................................        $11,900,000
                                                  Sasebo.....................................        $45,600,000
                                                  Torii Commo Station........................        $25,323,000
Puerto Rico.....................................   Punta Borinquen...........................        $61,071,000
United Kingdom..................................  Menwith Hill Station.......................        $11,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY RESILIENCY AND CONSERVATION 
                   PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2403(a) and available for energy resiliency and conservation 
     projects inside the United States as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out 
     energy resiliency and conservation projects under chapter 173 
     of title 10, United States Code, for the installations or 
     locations inside the United States, and the amounts set forth 
     in the following table:

                      Energy Resiliency and Conservation Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Colorado........................................  Schriever Air Force Base...................        $15,260,000
Guam............................................  Andersen Air Force Base....................         $5,880,000
                                                  NAVBASE Guam...............................         $6,920,000
Hawaii..........................................   MCBH Kaneohe Bay..........................         $6,185,000
Illinois........................................  MTC Marseilles.............................         $3,000,000
Maryland........................................   NSA South Potomac-Indian Head.............        $10,790,000
Missouri........................................   Fort Leonard Wood.........................         $5,300,000
Montana.........................................  Malmstrom Air Force Base...................         $6,086,000
North Carolina..................................  Fort Bragg.................................         $3,000,000
                                                  Lejeune/New River..........................         $9,750,000
Utah............................................  Tooele Army Depot..........................         $6,400,000
                                                  Dugway Proving Ground......................         $8,700,000
                                                  Hill Air Force Base........................         $8,467,000
Wyoming.........................................  F.E. Warren................................         $4,500,000
Various Locations...............................  Various Locations..........................        $27,232,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2403(a) and available for energy resiliency and conservation 
     projects outside the United States as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may 
     carry out energy resiliency and conservation projects under 
     chapter 173 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
     installations or locations outside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                     Energy Resiliency and Conservation Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Honduras........................................   Soto Cano Air Base........................        $12,600,000
Italy...........................................   NSA Naples................................         $2,700,000
Japan...........................................  CFA Yokosuka...............................         $8,530,000
Korea...........................................  Osan Air Base..............................        $13,700,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning 
     after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land 
     acquisition, and military family housing functions of the 
     Department of Defense (other than the military departments), 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2401 of this Act may not exceed the 
     total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
     (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

     SEC. 2404. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2017 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization in the table in section 
     2401(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2700) for 
     Kaiserslautern, Germany, for construction of the Sembach 
     Elementary/Middle School Replacement, the Secretary of 
     Defense may construct an elementary school.

     SEC. 2405. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2014 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
     (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2401 of that Act (127 Stat. 995) and 
     extended by section 2406 of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of Public 
     Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2702), shall remain in effect until 
     October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
     authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 
     2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United Kingdom.........................  Royal Air Force Lakenheath.  Lakenheath Middle/High         $69,638,000
                                                                       School Replacement......

[[Page H8855]]

 
Virginia...............................  Marine Corps Base Quantico.  Quantico Middle/High           $40,586,000
                                                                       School Replacement......
                                         Pentagon...................  PFPA Support Operations        $14,800,000
                                                                       Center..................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2406. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2401 of that Act (128 Stat. 3681), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia..............................  Geraldton..................  Combined Communications         $9,600,000
                                                                       Gateway Geraldton.......
Belgium................................  Brussels...................  Brussels Elementary/High       $41,626,000
                                                                       School Replacement......
Japan..................................  Okinawa....................  Kubasaki High School           $99,420,000
                                                                       Replacement/Renovation..
                                         Commander Fleet Activities   E.J. King High School          $37,681,000
                                          Sasebo....................   Replacement/Renovation..
Mississippi............................   Stennis...................  SOF Land Acquisition           $17,224,000
                                                                       Western Maneuver Area...
New Mexico.............................  Cannon Air Force Base......  SOF Squadron Operations        $23,333,000
                                                                       Facility (STS)..........
Virginia...............................  Defense Distribution Depot   Replace Access Control          $5,700,000
                                          Richmond..................   Point...................
                                         Joint Base Langley-Eustis..  Hospital Addition/Central      $41,200,000
                                                                       Utility Plant
                                                                       Replacement.............
                                         Pentagon...................  Redundant Chilled Water        $15,100,000
                                                                       Loop....................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
Sec. 2512. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2017 projects.

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

     SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.

       The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the 
     North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
     Program as provided in section 2806 of title 10, United 
     States Code, in an amount not to exceed the sum of the amount 
     authorized to be appropriated for this purpose in section 
     2502 and the amount collected from the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization as a result of construction previously financed 
     by the United States.

     SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 2017, for contributions 
     by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, 
     United States Code, for the share of the United States of the 
     cost of projects for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Security Investment Program authorized by section 2501 as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

     SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

       Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for 
     required in-kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may 
     accept military construction projects for the installations 
     or locations, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
     table:

                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       Installation or
            Country                   Component           Location              Project              Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea..........................  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Unaccompanied               $76,000,000
                                                                          Enlisted Personnel
                                                                          Housing, Phase 1...
                                 Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Type I Aircraft             $10,000,000
                                                                          Parking Apron......
                                 Air Force.........  Kunsan Air Base...  Construct Airfield           $6,500,000
                                                                          Damage Repair
                                                                          Warehouse..........
                                 Air Force.........  Osan Air Base.....  Main Gate Entry             $13,000,000
                                                                          Control Facilities.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2512. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2017 PROJECTS.

       (a) Camp Humphreys.--In the case of the authorization 
     contained in the table in section 2511 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2704) for Camp Humphreys, 
     Republic of Korea, for construction of the 8th Army 
     Correctional Facility, the Secretary of Defense may construct 
     a level 1 correctional facility of 26,000 square feet and a 
     utility and tool storage building of 400 square feet.

[[Page H8856]]

       (b) K-16 Air Base.--In the case of the authorization 
     contained in the table in section 2511 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2704) for the K-16 Air 
     Base, Republic of Korea, for renovation of the Special 
     Operations Forces (SOF) Operations Facility, B-606, the 
     Secretary of Defense may renovate an operations 
     administration area of 5,500 square meters.

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
              projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
              construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
              2015 project.
Sec. 2612. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2613. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

     SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND 
                   LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Army National Guard locations inside the United States, and 
     in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Delaware........................................   New Castle................................        $36,000,000
Idaho...........................................  Orchard Training Area......................        $22,000,000
                                                  MTC Gowen..................................         $9,000,000
Iowa............................................  Camp Dodge.................................         $8,500,000
Kansas..........................................  Fort Leavenworth...........................        $19,000,000
Maine...........................................   Presque Isle..............................        $17,500,000
Maryland........................................  Sykesville.................................        $19,000,000
Minnesota.......................................  Arden Hills................................        $39,000,000
Missouri........................................  Springfield................................        $32,000,000
New Mexico......................................   Las Cruces................................         $8,600,000
Virginia........................................   Fort Belvoir..............................        $15,000,000
                                                  Fort Pickett...............................         $4,550,000
Washington......................................  Tumwater...................................        $31,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary 
     of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
     construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside 
     the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
     following table:

                                     Army Reserve: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  Fallbrook..................................        $36,000,000
Washington......................................   Lewis-McChord.............................        $30,000,000
Wisconsin.......................................   Fort McCoy................................        $13,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as 
     specified in the funding table in section 3102, the Secretary 
     of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
     construction projects for the Army Reserve locations outside 
     the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
     following table:

                                     Army Reserve: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Puerto Rico.....................................  Aguadilla..................................        $12,400,000
                                                  Fort Buchanan..............................        $26,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
                   CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve locations inside the 
     United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
     table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................   Lemoore...................................        $17,330,000
Georgia.........................................  Fort Gordon................................        $17,797,000
New Jersey......................................  Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst...........        $11,573,000

[[Page H8857]]

 
Texas...........................................   Fort Worth................................        $12,637,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND 
                   LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Air National Guard locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  March Air Force Base.......................        $15,000,000
Colorado........................................  Peterson Air Force Base....................         $8,000,000
Connecticut.....................................  Bradley IAP................................         $7,000,000
Indiana.........................................  Hulman Regional Airport....................         $8,000,000
Kentucky........................................   Louisville IAP............................         $9,000,000
Mississippi.....................................   Jackson International Airport.............         $8,000,000
Missouri........................................   Rosecrans Memorial Airport................        $10,000,000
New York........................................   Hancock Field.............................         $6,800,000
Ohio............................................  Toledo Express Airport.....................        $15,000,000
Oklahoma........................................  Tulsa International Airport................         $8,000,000
Oregon..........................................   Klamath Falls IAP.........................        $18,500,000
South Dakota....................................  Joe Foss Field.............................        $12,000,000
Tennessee.......................................  McGhee-Tyson Airport.......................        $25,000,000
Wisconsin.......................................   Dane County Regional/Airport Truax Field..         $8,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Air Force Reserve locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida.........................................   Patrick Air Force Base....................        $25,000,000
Georgia.........................................   Robins Air Force Base.....................        $32,000,000
Guam............................................  Joint Region Marianas......................         $5,200,000
 Hawaii.........................................   Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam............         $5,500,000
Massachusetts...................................   Westover ARB..............................        $10,000,000
Minnesota.......................................  Minneapolis-St Paul IAP....................         $9,000,000
North Carolina..................................  Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.............         $6,400,000
Texas...........................................  NAS JRB Fort Worth.........................         $3,100,000
Utah............................................  Hill Air Force Base........................         $3,100,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD 
                   AND RESERVE.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 2017, for the costs of 
     acquisition, architectural and engineering services, and 
     construction of facilities for the Guard and Reserve Forces, 
     and for contributions therefor, under chapter 1803 of title 
     10, United States Code (including the cost of acquisition of 
     land for those facilities), as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

     SEC. 2611. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2015 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization contained in the table in 
     section 2602 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 
     Stat. 3688) for Starkville, Mississippi, for construction of 
     an Army Reserve Center at that location, the Secretary of the 
     Army may acquire approximately fifteen acres (653,400 square 
     feet) of land.

     SEC. 2612. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2014 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
     Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set 
     forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 
     2602, 2604, and 2605 of that Act (127 Stat. 1001, 1002), 
     shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of 
     the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                      National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                   Installation or Location             Project                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Florida..............................  Homestead ARB............  Entry Control Complex.......       $9,800,000
Maryland..............................   Fort Meade..............  175th Network Warfare              $4,000,000
                                                                    Squadron Facility.
New York..............................  Bullville................  Army Reserve Center.........      $14,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page H8858]]

  


     SEC. 2613. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of 
     Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set 
     forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 
     2602 and 2604 of that Act (128 Stat. 3688, 3689), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                      National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                            Location                     Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Mississippi...........................   Starkville...............  Army Reserve Center.......       $9,300,000
New Hampshire..........................   Pease....................  KC-46A ADAL Airfield             $7,100,000
                                                                      Pavements and Hydrant
                                                                      Systems.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
              closure activities funded through Department of Defense 
              base closure account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
              closure (BRAC) round.

     SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE 
                   REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED 
                   THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE 
                   ACCOUNT.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 2017, for base 
     realignment and closure activities, including real property 
     acquisition and military construction projects, as authorized 
     by the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part 
     A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) 
     and funded through the Department of Defense Base Closure 
     Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended 
     by section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 
     126 Stat. 2140)), as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601.

     SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE 
                   REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.

       Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an 
     additional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing

Sec. 2801. Elimination of written notice requirement for military 
              construction activities and reliance on electronic 
              submission of notifications and reports.
Sec. 2802. Modification of thresholds applicable to unspecified minor 
              construction projects.
Sec. 2803. Annual locality adjustment of dollar thresholds applicable 
              to unspecified minor military construction authorities.
Sec. 2804. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
              and maintenance funds for construction projects outside 
              the United States.
Sec. 2805. Use of operation and maintenance funds for military 
              construction projects to replace facilities damaged or 
              destroyed by natural disasters or terrorism incidents.
Sec. 2806. Annual report on unfunded requirements for laboratory 
              military construction projects.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Elimination of written notice requirement for military real 
              property transactions and reliance on electronic 
              submission of notifications and reports.
Sec. 2812. Certification related to certain acquisitions or leases of 
              real property.
Sec. 2813. Increased term limit for intergovernmental support 
              agreements to provide installation support services.
Sec. 2814. Authorizing reimbursement of States for costs of suppressing 
              wildfires caused by Department of Defense activities on 
              State lands; restoration of lands of other Federal 
              agencies for damage caused by Department of Defense 
              vehicle mishaps.
Sec. 2815. Criteria for exchanges of property at military 
              installations.
Sec. 2816. Land exchange valuation of property with reduced development 
              that limits encroachment on military installations.
Sec. 2817. Requirements for window fall prevention devices in military 
              family housing.
Sec. 2818. Prohibiting use of updated assessment of public schools on 
              Department of Defense installations to supersede funding 
              of certain projects.
Sec. 2819. Access to military installations by transportation network 
              companies.

          Subtitle C--Project Management and Oversight Reforms

Sec. 2821. Notification requirement for certain cost increases.
Sec. 2822. Annual report on schedule delays.
Sec. 2823. Report on design errors and omissions related to Fort Bliss 
              hospital replacement project.
Sec. 2824. Report on cost increase and delay related to USSTRATCOM 
              command and control facility project at Offutt Air Force 
              Base.

                     Subtitle D--Energy Resilience

Sec. 2831. Energy resilience.
Sec. 2832. Authority to use energy cost savings for energy resilience, 
              mission assurance, and weather damage repair and 
              prevention measures.
Sec. 2833. Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in 
              awarding energy and fuel contracts for military 
              installations.
Sec. 2834. Requirement to address energy resilience in exercising 
              utility system conveyance authority.
Sec. 2835. In-kind lease payments; prioritization of utility services 
              that promote energy resilience.
Sec. 2836. Annual Department of Defense energy management reports.
Sec. 2837. Aggregation of energy efficiency and energy resilience 
              projects in life cycle cost analyses.

                      Subtitle E--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2841. Land exchange, Naval Industrial Reserve Ordnance Plant, 
              Sunnyvale, California.
Sec. 2842. Land conveyance, Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho.
Sec. 2843. Lease of real property to the United States Naval Academy 
              Alumni Association and Naval Academy Foundation at United 
              States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland.
Sec. 2844. Land Conveyance, Natick Soldier Systems Center, 
              Massachusetts.
Sec. 2845. Land exchange, Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, Texas.
Sec. 2846. Imposition of additional conditions on future use of Castner 
              Range, Fort Bliss, Texas.
Sec. 2847. Land conveyance, former missile alert facility known as 
              Quebec-01, Laramie County, Wyoming.

         Subtitle F--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

Sec. 2861. Recognition of the National Museum of World War II Aviation.
Sec. 2862. Principal office of Aviation Hall of Fame.
Sec. 2863. Establishment of a visitor services facility on the 
              Arlington Ridge tract.
Sec. 2864. Modification of prohibition on transfer of veterans memorial 
              objects to foreign governments without specific 
              authorization in law.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 2871. Authority of the Secretary of the Air Force to accept lessee 
              improvements at Air Force Plant 42.
Sec. 2872. Modification of Department of Defense guidance on use of 
              airfield pavement markings.
Sec. 2873. Authority of Chief Operating Officer of Armed Forces 
              Retirement Home to acquire and lease property.
Sec. 2874. Restrictions on rehabilitation of Over-the-Horizon 
              Backscatter Radar Station.
Sec. 2875. Permitting machine room-less elevators in Department of 
              Defense facilities.
Sec. 2876. Disclosure of beneficial ownership by foreign persons of 
              high security space leased by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 2877. Joint use of Dobbins Air Reserve Base, Marietta, Georgia, 
              with civil aviation.
Sec. 2878. Report on hurricane damage to Department of Defense assets.
Sec. 2879. Special rules for certain projects.
Sec. 2880. Energy security for military installations in Europe.

[[Page H8859]]

  


 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing

     SEC. 2801. ELIMINATION OF WRITTEN NOTICE REQUIREMENT FOR 
                   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND RELIANCE 
                   ON ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF NOTIFICATIONS AND 
                   REPORTS.

       (a) Military Construction Authorities.--Subchapter I of 
     chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) Section 2803(b) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``seven-day period'' and inserting ``five-
     day period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the seven-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (2) Section 2804(b) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``14-day period'' and inserting ``seven-day 
     period; and''
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the seven-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (3) Section 2805 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (b)(2)--
       (i) by striking ``in writing'';
       (ii) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (iii) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''; and
       (B) in subsection (d)(3)--
       (i) by striking ``in writing'';
       (ii) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (iii) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (4) Section 2806(c) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``of Defense'' after 
     ``The Secretary''; and
       (B) by striking ``(A)'' and all that follows through the 
     end of the paragraph and inserting the following: ``, only 
     after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on 
     which the Secretary submits, in an electronic medium pursuant 
     to section 480 of this title, to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress notice of the increase, including the reasons for 
     the increase and the source of the funds to be used for the 
     increase.''.
       (5) Section 2807 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (b)--
       (i) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (ii) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the report is 
     provided''; and
       (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``(1)'' and all that 
     follows through the end of the subsection and inserting the 
     following: ``only after the end of the 14-day period 
     beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress notice of the need for 
     the increase, including the source of funds to be used for 
     the increase.''.
       (6) Section 2808(b) is amended by inserting after 
     ``notify'' the following: ``, in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title,''.
       (7) Section 2809 is amended by striking subsection (f) and 
     inserting the following new subsection:
       ``(f) Notice and Wait Requirements.--The Secretary 
     concerned may enter into a contract under this section only 
     after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on 
     which the Secretary submits, in an electronic medium pursuant 
     to section 480 of this title, to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress a justification of the need for the facility 
     covered by the proposed contract, including an economic 
     analysis (based upon accepted life cycle costing procedures) 
     which demonstrates that the proposed contract is cost 
     effective when compared with alternative means of furnishing 
     the same facility.''.
       (8) Section 2811(d) is amended by inserting after 
     ``submit'' the following: ``, in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title,''.
       (9) Section 2812(c) is amended by striking paragraph (1) 
     and inserting the following new paragraph:
       ``(1) The Secretary concerned may enter into a lease under 
     this section only after the end of the 14-day period 
     beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress a justification of the 
     need for the facility covered by the proposed lease, 
     including an economic analysis (based upon accepted life-
     cycle costing procedures) that demonstrates the cost 
     effectiveness of the proposed lease compared with a military 
     construction project for the same facility.''.
       (10) Section 2813(c) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``transmits to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress a written notification'' and inserting ``notifies 
     the appropriate committees of Congress'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the report is 
     provided''.
       (11) Section 2814 is amended by striking subsection (g) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(g) Notice and Wait Requirements.--The Secretary of the 
     Navy may carry out a transaction authorized by this section 
     only after the end of the 20-day period beginning on the date 
     on which the Secretary submits, in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title, to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress notice of the transaction, including a 
     detailed description of the transaction and a justification 
     for the transaction specifying the manner in which the 
     transaction will meet the purposes of this section.''.
       (b) Military Family Housing Activities.--Subchapter II of 
     chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) Section 2825(b) is amended--
       (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) as 
     paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), respectively;
       (B) in paragraph (5), as redesignated--
       (i) by striking ``the first sentence of''; and
       (ii) by striking ``in that sentence'' and inserting ``in 
     that paragraph''; and
       (C) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in the second sentence, by striking ``The Secretary 
     concerned may waive the limitations contained in the 
     preceding sentence'' and inserting the following:
       ``(2) The Secretary concerned may waive the limitations 
     contained in paragraph (1)'';
       (ii) in the third sentence, by striking ``the Secretary 
     transmits'' and all that follows through the end of the 
     sentence and inserting the following: ``the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, 
     in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title, to the appropriate committees of Congress notice of 
     the proposed waiver, together with an economic analysis 
     demonstrating that the improvement will be cost effective.''.
       (2) Section 2827 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Relocation 
     Authority.--'' after ``(a)''; and
       (B) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following 
     new subsection:
       ``(b) Notice and Wait Requirements.--A contract to carry 
     out a relocation of military family housing units under 
     subsection (a) may be awarded only after the end of the 14-
     day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary 
     concerned submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to 
     section 480 of this title, to the appropriate committees of 
     Congress notice of the proposed new locations of the housing 
     units to be relocated and the estimated cost of and source of 
     funds for the relocation.''.
       (3) Section 2828(f) is amended by striking ``may not be 
     made'' and all that follows through the end of the subsection 
     and inserting ``may be made under this section only after the 
     end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which the 
     Secretary concerned submits, in an electronic medium pursuant 
     to section 480 of this title, to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress notice of the facts concerning the proposed 
     lease.''.
       (4) Subsection (e) of section 2831, as redesignated by 
     section 1051(a)(21), is further amended by striking ``until--
     '' and all that follows through the end of the subsection and 
     inserting the following: ``until after the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, 
     in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title, to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     justification of the need for the maintenance or repair 
     project, including an estimate of the cost of the project.''.
       (5) Section 2835 is amended by striking subsection (g) and 
     inserting the following new subsection:
       ``(g) Notice and Wait Requirements.--A contract may be 
     entered into for the lease of housing facilities under this 
     section only after the end of the 14-day period beginning on 
     the date on which the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast Guard when it 
     is not operating as a service in the Navy, submits, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress an economic analysis 
     (based upon accepted life cycle costing procedures) which 
     demonstrates that the proposed contract is cost-effective 
     when compared with alternative means of furnishing the same 
     housing facilities.''.
       (6) Section 2835a(c) is amended by striking ``until--'' and 
     all that follows through the end of the subsection and 
     inserting the following: ``until after the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, 
     in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title, to the appropriate committees of Congress a notice of 
     the intent to undertake the conversion.''.
       (c) Administrative Provisions.--Subchapter III of chapter 
     169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 2853(c) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'' both places it appears;
       (B) in paragraph (1)(B)--
       (i) by striking ``period of 21 days'' and inserting ``14-
     day period''; and
       (ii) by striking ``or, if over sooner, a period of 14 days 
     has elapsed after the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''; and
       (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting after ``notifies'' the 
     following: ``, using an electronic medium pursuant to section 
     480 of this title,''.
       (2) Section 2854(b) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the seven-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (3) Section 2854a is amended by striking subsection (c) and 
     inserting the following new subsection:
       ``(c) Notice and Wait Requirements.--(1) The Secretary 
     concerned may enter into an agreement to convey a family 
     housing facility under this section only after the end of the 
     14-day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary 
     submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
     this title, to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     notice containing a justification for the conveyance under 
     the agreement.
       ``(2) A notice under paragraph (1) shall include--
       ``(A) an estimate of the consideration to be provided the 
     United States under the agreement;
       ``(B) an estimate of the cost of repairing the family 
     housing facility to be conveyed; and
       ``(C) an estimate of the cost of replacing the family 
     housing facility to be conveyed.''.
       (4) Section 2861(c) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and

[[Page H8860]]

       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (5) Section 2866(c)(2) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (B) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (6) Section 2869(d)(3) is amended--
       (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``after a period of 
     21 days'' and all that follows through the end of the 
     sentence and inserting the following: ``after the end of the 
     14-day period beginning on the date of the submission of the 
     notice in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
     this title.''; and
       (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``only after'' and 
     all that follows through the end of the sentence and 
     inserting the following: ``only after the end of the 45-day 
     period beginning on the date of the submission of the notice 
     in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title.''
       (d) Alternative Authority for Acquisition and Improvement 
     of Military Housing.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 2881a(d)(2) is amended by inserting after 
     ``Congress'' the following: ``in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title''.
       (2) Section 2883(f) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``30-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period'';
       (B) by striking ``written''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notice 
     and justification is provided''.
       (3) Section 2884(a) is amended by striking paragraph (4) 
     and inserting the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The report shall be submitted in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title not later than 21 days 
     before the date on which the Secretary issues the contract 
     solicitation or offers the conveyance or lease.''.
       (4) Section 2885 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)(4)(B)--
       (i) by inserting after ``notify'' the following: ``, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title,''; 
     and
       (ii) by striking ``, and shall provide'' and inserting 
     ``and include''; and
       (B) in subsection (d), by inserting after ``submit'' the 
     following: ``, in an electronic medium pursuant to section 
     480 of this title,''.
       (e) Energy Security Activities.--Chapter 173 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 2914(b)(1) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (2) Section 2916(c) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (f) Military Construction Carried Out Using Burden Sharing 
     Contributions.--Section 2350j(e)(2) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (2) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the report is 
     provided''.
       (g) Acquisition of Facilities for Reserve Components by 
     Exchange.--Section 18240(f)(2) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``30-day period'' and inserting ``21-day 
     period''; and
       (2) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 21-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the report is 
     provided''.

     SEC. 2802. MODIFICATION OF THRESHOLDS APPLICABLE TO 
                   UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

       (a) Increase in Threshold; Uniform Threshold for All 
     Projects.--Section 2805(a)(2) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``$3,000,000'' and 
     inserting ``$6,000,000''; and
       (2) by striking the second sentence.
       (b) Approval by Secretary Concerned.--Section 2805(b)(1) of 
     such title is amended by striking ``$1,000,000'' and 
     inserting ``$750,000''.
       (c) Congressional Notification.--Section 2805(b)(2) of such 
     title is amended by striking ``to which paragraph (1) is 
     applicable'' and inserting ``to which paragraph (1) is 
     applicable and which costs more than $2,000,000''.
       (d) Use of Operation and Maintenance Funds.--Section 
     2805(c) of such title is amended by striking ``$1,000,000'' 
     and inserting ``$2,000,000''.

     SEC. 2803. ANNUAL LOCALITY ADJUSTMENT OF DOLLAR THRESHOLDS 
                   APPLICABLE TO UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY 
                   CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITIES.

       Section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(f) Adjustment of Dollar Limitations for Location.--
       ``(1) Adjustment of limitations.--Each fiscal year, the 
     Secretary concerned shall adjust the dollar limitations 
     specified in this section applicable to an unspecified minor 
     military construction project inside the United States to 
     reflect the area construction cost index for military 
     construction projects published by the Department of Defense 
     during the prior fiscal year for the location of the project, 
     except that no limitation specified in this section may 
     exceed $10,000,000 as the result of any adjustment made under 
     this paragraph.
       ``(2) Location of projects.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
     a project shall be considered to be inside the United States 
     if the project is carried out in any of the several States, 
     the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
     Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or 
     the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
       ``(3) Sunset.--The requirements of this subsection shall 
     not apply with respect to any fiscal year after fiscal year 
     2022.''.

     SEC. 2804. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY, LIMITED AUTHORITY TO USE 
                   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR 
                   CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED 
                   STATES.

       (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (h) of section 2808 
     of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2004 (division B of Public Law 108-136; 117 Stat. 1723), 
     as most recently amended by section 2804 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2713), is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2018''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year 2018'' and 
     inserting ``fiscal year 2019''.
       (b) Limitation on Use of Authority.--Subsection (c)(1) of 
     such section is amended--
       (1) by striking ``October 1, 2016'' and inserting ``October 
     1, 2017'';
       (2) by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018''; and
       (3) by striking ``fiscal year 2018'' and inserting ``fiscal 
     year 2019''.

     SEC. 2805. USE OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR 
                   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS TO REPLACE 
                   FACILITIES DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BY NATURAL 
                   DISASTERS OR TERRORISM INCIDENTS.

       (a) Authorizing Use of Funds.--Section 2854 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(c)(1) In using the authority described in subsection (a) 
     to carry out a military construction project to replace a 
     facility, including a family housing facility, that has been 
     damaged or destroyed, the Secretary concerned may use 
     appropriations available for operation and maintenance if--
       ``(A) the damage or destruction to the facility was the 
     result of a natural disaster or a terrorism incident; and
       ``(B) the Secretary submits a notification to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress of the decision to carry 
     out the replacement project, and includes in the 
     notification--
       ``(i) the current estimate of the cost of the replacement 
     project;
       ``(ii) the source of funds for the replacement project;
       ``(iii) in the case of damage to a facility rather than 
     destruction, a certification that the replacement project is 
     more cost-effective than repair or restoration; and
       ``(iv) a certification that deferral of the replacement 
     project for inclusion in the next Military Construction 
     Authorization Act would be inconsistent with national 
     security or the protection of health, safety, or 
     environmental quality, as the case may be.
       ``(2) A replacement project under this subsection may be 
     carried out only after the end of the 7-day period beginning 
     on the date on which a copy of the notification described in 
     paragraph (1) is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to 
     section 480 of this title.
       ``(3) The maximum aggregate amount that the Secretary 
     concerned may obligate from appropriations available for 
     operation and maintenance in any fiscal year for replacement 
     projects under the authority of this subsection is 
     $50,000,000.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b) of section 2854 
     of such title, as amended by section 2801(c)(2), is amended 
     by striking ``under this section'' and inserting ``under 
     subsection (a)''.

     SEC. 2806. ANNUAL REPORT ON UNFUNDED REQUIREMENTS FOR 
                   LABORATORY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

       The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
     Engineering, in coordination with the Assistant Secretary of 
     Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment, shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees each year, at 
     the time the budget of the President for the fiscal year 
     beginning in such year is submitted to Congress under section 
     1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a reporting listing 
     unfunded requirements on major and minor military 
     construction projects for Department of Defense science and 
     technology laboratories and facilities and test and 
     evaluation facilities, and shall include a Department of 
     Defense Form DD1391 for each major and minor military 
     construction project included in the report.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

     SEC. 2811. ELIMINATION OF WRITTEN NOTICE REQUIREMENT FOR 
                   MILITARY REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS AND 
                   RELIANCE ON ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF 
                   NOTIFICATIONS AND REPORTS.

       (a) General Real Property Transaction Report.--Section 
     2662(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
       ``(3) The authority of the Secretary concerned to enter 
     into a transaction described in paragraph (1) commences only 
     after the end of the

[[Page H8861]]

     14-day period beginning on the first day of the first month 
     beginning on or after the date on which the report containing 
     the facts concerning such transaction, and all other such 
     proposed transactions for that month, is provided in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.''.
       (b) Acquisition of Interests in Land When Need Is Urgent.--
     Section 2663(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting after ``submit'' the following: ``, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title,''; 
     and
       (2) by striking ``written notice'' and inserting ``a 
     notice''.
       (c) Acquisition of Land by Condemnation for Certain 
     Military Purposes.--Section 2663(f)(2) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking ``or, if over sooner, the 
     end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a 
     copy of the report is provided''.
       (d) Exceptions to Limitations on Land Acquisition Reduction 
     in Scope or Increase in Cost.--Section 2664(d) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``written'';
       (2) by striking ``a period of 21 days elapses from'' and 
     inserting ``the end of the 14-day period beginning on''; and
       (3) by striking ``or, if over sooner, a period of 14 days 
     elapses from the date on which a copy of that notification is 
     provided''.
       (e) Leases of Non-excess Defense Property.--Section 
     2667(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking ``provide to the congressional defense committees 
     written notice'' and inserting ``submit, in an electronic 
     medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, to the 
     congressional defense committees a notice''.
       (f) Maintenance and Repair and Jurisdiction Over Facilities 
     for Defense Agencies.--Section 2682(c)(2) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking ``to the appropriate 
     congressional committees written notification'' and inserting 
     ``, in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title, to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     notice''.
       (g) Agreements to Limit Encroachments and Other Constraints 
     on Military Training, Testing, and Operations.--Section 
     2684a(d)(4)(D) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in clause (i), by striking ``provides written notice'' 
     and inserting ``submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to 
     section 480 of this title, a notice''; and
       (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``14 days'' and all that 
     follows through the end of the clause and inserting the 
     following: ``10 days after the date on which the notice is 
     submitted under clause (i).''.
       (h) Conveyance of Surplus Real Property for Natural 
     Resource Conservation.--Section 2694a of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking subsection (e) and 
     inserting the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Notice and Wait Requirements.--The Secretary 
     concerned may not approve of the reconveyance of real 
     property under subsection (c) or grant the release of a 
     covenant under subsection (d) until after the end of the 14-
     day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary 
     submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
     this title, to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     notice of the proposed reconveyance or release.''.

     SEC. 2812. CERTIFICATION RELATED TO CERTAIN ACQUISITIONS OR 
                   LEASES OF REAL PROPERTY.

       Section 2662(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end of 
     the first sentence and inserting the following: ``, as well 
     as the certification described in paragraph (5).''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) For purposes of paragraph (2), the certification 
     described in this paragraph with respect to an acquisition or 
     lease of real property is a certification that the Secretary 
     concerned--
       ``(A) evaluated the feasibility of using space in property 
     under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense to 
     satisfy the purposes of the acquisition or lease; and
       ``(B) determined that--
       ``(i) space in property under the jurisdiction of the 
     Department of Defense is not reasonably available to be used 
     to satisfy the purposes of the acquisition or lease;
       ``(ii) acquiring the property or entering into the lease 
     would be more cost-effective than the use of the Department 
     of Defense property; or
       ``(iii) the use of the Department of Defense property would 
     interfere with the ongoing military mission of the 
     property.''.

     SEC. 2813. INCREASED TERM LIMIT FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL SUPPORT 
                   AGREEMENTS TO PROVIDE INSTALLATION SUPPORT 
                   SERVICES.

       Section 2679(a)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``five years'' and inserting ``ten 
     years''.

     SEC. 2814. AUTHORIZING REIMBURSEMENT OF STATES FOR COSTS OF 
                   SUPPRESSING WILDFIRES CAUSED BY DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE ACTIVITIES ON STATE LANDS; RESTORATION 
                   OF LANDS OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES FOR DAMAGE 
                   CAUSED BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE VEHICLE 
                   MISHAPS.

       (a) Authorities.--Section 2691 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``or lease'' each place 
     it appears;
       (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``or lease'';
       (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``lease,''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
       ``(d) Wildland Fires on State Land.--The Secretary of 
     Defense may, in any lease, permit, license, or other grant of 
     access for use of lands owned by a State, agree to reimburse 
     the State for the reasonable costs of the State in 
     suppressing wildland fires caused by the activities of the 
     Department of Defense under such lease, permit, license, or 
     other grant of access.
       ``(e) Restoration of Land Damaged by Mishap.--(1) When land 
     under the administrative jurisdiction of a Federal agency 
     that is not a part of the Department of Defense is damaged as 
     the result of a mishap involving a vessel, aircraft, or 
     vehicle of the Department of Defense, the Secretary of 
     Defense may, with the consent of the Federal agency, restore 
     the land.
       ``(2) When land under the administrative jurisdiction of 
     the Department of Defense or a military department is damaged 
     as the result of a mishap involving a vessel, aircraft, or 
     vehicle of a Federal agency that is not a part of the 
     Department of Defense, the head of the Federal agency under 
     whose control the vessel, aircraft, or vehicle was operating 
     may, with the consent of the Department of Defense, restore 
     the land.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further 
     amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``lease'' and inserting 
     ``damaged by mishap; reimbursement of state costs of fighting 
     wildland fires'';
       (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a) The Secretary'' 
     and inserting ``(a) Restoration of Other Agency Land Used by 
     Permit.--The Secretary'';
       (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``(b) Unless'' and 
     inserting ``(b) Screening for Use of Improved Land.--
     Unless''; and
       (4) in subsection (c), by striking ``(c)(1) As a 
     condition'' and inserting ``(c) Restoration of Department of 
     Defense Land Used by Other Agency.--(1) As a condition''.
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections of chapter 
     159 of such title is amended by amending the item relating to 
     section 2691 to read as follows:

``2691. Restoration of land used by permit or damaged by mishap; 
              reimbursement of State costs of fighting wildland 
              fires.''.

     SEC. 2815. CRITERIA FOR EXCHANGES OF PROPERTY AT MILITARY 
                   INSTALLATIONS.

       Paragraph (2) of section 2869(a) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(2) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to real property 
     under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned--
       ``(A) that is located on a military installation that is 
     closed or realigned under a base closure law; or
       ``(B) that is located on a military installation not 
     covered by subparagraph (A) and for which the Secretary 
     concerned makes a determination that the conveyance under 
     paragraph (1) is advantageous to the United States.''.

     SEC. 2816. LAND EXCHANGE VALUATION OF PROPERTY WITH REDUCED 
                   DEVELOPMENT THAT LIMITS ENCROACHMENT ON 
                   MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

       Subsection (b) of section 2869 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Conditions on Conveyance Authority.--(1) The fair 
     market value of the land to be obtained by the Secretary 
     concerned under subsection (a) in exchange for the conveyance 
     of real property by the Secretary under such subsection shall 
     be at least equal to the fair market value of the conveyed 
     real property, as determined by the Secretary. If the fair 
     market value of the land is less than the fair market value 
     of the real property to be conveyed, the recipient of the 
     property shall pay to the United States an amount equal to 
     the difference in the fair market values.
       ``(2) In the case of a conveyance of real property to a 
     political subdivision of a State, the value of the real 
     property to be conveyed by the Secretary concerned under 
     subsection (a) may exceed the fair market value of the land 
     to be obtained, as determined under paragraph (1), by an 
     amount not to exceed the reduction in value of the land which 
     is attributable to voluntary zoning actions taken by such 
     political subdivision to limit encroachment on a military 
     installation, but only if the notice required by subsection 
     (d)(2) contains--
       ``(A) a certification by the Secretary concerned that the 
     military value to the United States of the land to be 
     acquired justifies a payment in excess of the fair market 
     value; and
       ``(B) a description of the military value to be 
     obtained.''.

     SEC. 2817. REQUIREMENTS FOR WINDOW FALL PREVENTION DEVICES IN 
                   MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING.

       (a) Requirement.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 169 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2878 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2879. Window fall prevention devices in military 
       family housing units

       ``(a) Requiring Use of Devices on Certain Windows.--
       ``(1) Requirement.--The Secretary concerned shall ensure 
     that if a window in any military family housing unit acquired 
     or constructed under this chapter is described in subsection 
     (b), including a window designed for emergency escape or 
     rescue, the window is equipped with fall prevention devices 
     that protect against unintentional window falls by young 
     children and that are in compliance with applicable 
     International Building Code (IBC) standards.
       ``(2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall apply with 
     respect to the following military family housing units:
       ``(A) A unit for which the contract for the construction of 
     the unit is first entered into on or after the date of the 
     enactment of this section.
       ``(B) Any other unit which is subject to a whole-house 
     renovation project for which the

[[Page H8862]]

     contract is entered into on or after September 1, 2018.
       ``(b) Windows Described.--A window is described in this 
     subsection if the bottom sill of the window is within 24 
     inches of the floor, as measured in the interior of the unit, 
     and is more than 72 inches above the ground, as measured on 
     the exterior grade of the building.
       ``(c) Record of Incidents; Annual Report.--The Secretary 
     concerned shall keep a record of each incident (as defined in 
     Department of Defense Instruction 6055.7 series) in which a 
     minor child is injured or killed as the result of an 
     unintentional window fall in a military family housing unit. 
     Not later than 90 days after the end of each calendar year 
     (beginning with 2017), the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     a report to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and Senate on all such window falls occurring 
     in the previous year.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     169 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 2878 the following new item:

``2879. Window fall prevention devices in military family housing 
              units.''.
       (b) Independent Assessment of Child Safety in Military 
     Family Housing Units.--
       (1) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter into 
     an agreement with an independent entity with experience in 
     performing technical evaluations of the compliance of housing 
     units with the codes and standards of the International Code 
     Council and other relevant codes and standards to conduct and 
     to submit to the Secretary and the congressional defense 
     committees an assessment of child safety issues in military 
     family housing units, with an emphasis on assessing hazards 
     that may result in falls.
       (2) Recommendations.--The independent entity conducting the 
     assessment under paragraph (1) shall include in the 
     assessment such recommendations for modifications to military 
     family housing unit standards as the entity considers 
     appropriate for ensuring the safety of minor children in such 
     units.
       (3) Deadline.--Under the agreement entered into under 
     paragraph (1), the independent entity conducting the 
     assessment under such paragraph shall submit the assessment 
     to the Secretary and the congressional defense committees not 
     later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.

     SEC. 2818. PROHIBITING USE OF UPDATED ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC 
                   SCHOOLS ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTALLATIONS 
                   TO SUPERSEDE FUNDING OF CERTAIN PROJECTS.

       (a) Prohibiting Use of Updated Assessment to Supersede 
     Funding of Certain Public School Projects.--Subsection (a) of 
     section 2814 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2717) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) Prohibiting use of updated assessment to supersede 
     funding of certain remaining projects.--In determining which 
     projects will be funded under the programs described in 
     paragraph (2), the Secretary may not, on the basis of the 
     updated assessment described in paragraph (1), supersede the 
     funding of any of the remaining projects which were included 
     among the 33 projects for which Secretary assigned the 
     highest priority for receiving funds under the assessment of 
     the capacity and facility condition deficiencies of 
     elementary and secondary public schools on military 
     installations conducted by the Secretary in July 2011 under 
     section 8109 of the Department of Defense and Full-Year 
     Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 (Public Law 112-10; 125 
     Stat. 82).''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.

     SEC. 2819. ACCESS TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS BY TRANSPORTATION 
                   NETWORK COMPANIES.

       Section 346 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
       (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and 
     transportation network companies'' after ``transportation 
     companies'';
       (2) in subsections (b), (c), and (d), by inserting ``or 
     transportation network company'' after ``transportation 
     company'' each places it appears;
       (3) in subsection (b)(7), by inserting ``and transportation 
     network companies'' after ``transportation companies''; and
       (4) in subsection (d)--
       (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
       (B) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
     new paragraphs:
       ``(1) Transportation company.--The term `transportation 
     company' means a corporation, partnership, sole 
     proprietorship, or other entity outside of the Department of 
     Defense that provides a commercial transportation service to 
     a rider.
       ``(2) Transportation network company.--The term 
     `transportation network company'--
       ``(A) means a corporation, partnership, sole 
     proprietorship, or other entity, that uses a digital network 
     to connect riders to covered drivers in order for the driver 
     to transport the rider using a vehicle owned, leased, or 
     otherwise authorized for use by the driver to a point chosen 
     by the rider; and
       ``(B) does not include a shared-expense carpool or vanpool 
     arrangement that is not intended to generate profit for the 
     driver.''; and
       (C) in subparagraph (A)(i) of paragraph (3), as 
     redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by 
     inserting ``or transportation network company'' after 
     ``transportation company''.

          Subtitle C--Project Management and Oversight Reforms

     SEC. 2821. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN COST 
                   INCREASES.

       Section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g);
       (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(f)(1) In addition to the notification sent under 
     paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of a cost increase with 
     respect to a project, the Secretary concerned shall provide 
     an additional report notifying the congressional defense 
     committees and the Comptroller General of the United States 
     of any military construction project or military family 
     housing project with a total authorized cost greater than 
     $40,000,000 that has a cost increase of 25 percent or more.
       ``(2) The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
     following--
       ``(A) A description of the specific reasons for the cost 
     increase and the specific organizations and individuals 
     responsible.
       ``(B) A description of any ongoing or completed proceedings 
     or investigation into a government employee, prime 
     contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental organization 
     that may be responsible for the cost increase, and the status 
     of such proceeding or investigation.
       ``(C) If any proceeding or investigation identified in 
     subparagraph (B) resulted in final judicial or administrative 
     action, the following:
       ``(i) In the case of a judicial or administrative action 
     taken against a government employee, the report shall 
     identify the individual's organization, position within the 
     organization, and the action taken against the individual, 
     but shall exclude personally identifiable information about 
     the individual.
       ``(ii) In the case of a judicial or administrative action 
     taken against a prime contractor, subcontractor, or non-
     governmental organization, the report shall identify the 
     prime contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental 
     organization and the action taken against the prime 
     contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental organization.
       ``(D) A summary of any changes the Secretary concerned 
     believes may be required to the organizational structure, 
     project management and oversight practices, policy, or 
     authorities of a government organization involved in military 
     construction projects as a result of problems identified and 
     lessons learned from the project.
       ``(3) If any proceeding or investigation described in 
     paragraph (2)(C) is still ongoing at the time the Secretary 
     concerned submits the report under paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary shall provide a supplemental report to the 
     congressional defense committees and the Comptroller General 
     of the United States not later than 30 days after such 
     proceeding or investigation has been completed. If such 
     proceeding or investigation resulted in final judicial or 
     administrative action against a government employee, prime 
     contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental organization, 
     the Secretary shall include in the supplemental report the 
     information required by paragraph (2)(C).
       ``(4) Each report under this subsection shall be cosigned 
     by the senior engineer authorized to supervise military 
     construction projects and military family housing projects 
     under section 2851(a).
       ``(5) The Secretary shall send the report required under 
     paragraph (1) with respect to a project not later than 180 
     days after the Secretary sends to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress the notification under paragraph (1) of 
     subsection (c) of a cost increase with respect to the 
     project.
       ``(6) The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     review each report submitted under this subsection and 
     validate or correct as necessary the information provided.''; 
     and
       (3) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
     striking ``subsections (a) through (e)'' and inserting 
     ``subsections (a) through (f)''.

     SEC. 2822. ANNUAL REPORT ON SCHEDULE DELAYS.

       Section 2851 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) Annual Report on Schedule Delays.--Not later than 
     March 1 of each year (beginning with 2018), the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representatives and Senate a report on each 
     military construction project or military family housing 
     project for which, as of the end of the most recent fiscal 
     year, the estimated completion date is more than 1 year later 
     than the completion date proposed at the time the contract 
     for the project was awarded.''.

     SEC. 2823. REPORT ON DESIGN ERRORS AND OMISSIONS RELATED TO 
                   FORT BLISS HOSPITAL REPLACEMENT PROJECT.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of 
     the Department of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report on design errors and omissions 
     related to the hospital replacement project at Fort Bliss, 
     Texas.
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) A detailed description of the specific ``design 
     errors'' and ``omissions'' that resulted in the cost increase 
     for the hospital replacement project.
       (2) A description of the specific actions taken to prevent 
     further schedule delays and cost increases on this project as 
     well as lessons learned that will be applied to future 
     hospital projects.
       (3) A description of any ongoing or completed proceedings 
     or investigation into a government employee, prime 
     contractor, subcontractor, or

[[Page H8863]]

     non-governmental organization that may be responsible for the 
     delay and cost increases, and the status of such proceeding 
     or investigation.
       (4) If any proceeding or investigation identified in 
     paragraph (3) resulted in final judicial or administrative 
     action, the following:
       (A) In the case of a judicial or administrative action 
     taken against a government employee, the report shall 
     identify the individual's organization, name, position within 
     the organization, and the action taken against the 
     individual.
       (B) In the case of a judicial or administrative action 
     taken against a prime contractor, subcontractor, or non-
     governmental organization, the report shall identify the 
     prime contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental 
     organization and the action taken against the prime 
     contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental organization.
       (5) A summary of any changes the Inspector General believes 
     may be required to the organizational structure, project 
     management and oversight practices, policy, or authorities of 
     a government organization involved in military construction 
     projects as a result of problems identified and lessons 
     learned from this project.
       (c) Supplemental Report on Ongoing Proceedings and 
     Investigations.--If any proceeding or investigation described 
     in subsection (b)(3) is still ongoing at the time the 
     Inspector General submits the report required by subsection 
     (a), the Inspector General shall provide a supplemental 
     report to the congressional defense committees not later than 
     30 days after such proceeding or investigation has been 
     completed. If such proceeding or investigation resulted in 
     final judicial or administrative action against a government 
     employee, prime contractor, subcontractor, or non-
     governmental organization, the Inspector General shall 
     include in the supplemental report the information required 
     by subsection (b)(4).

     SEC. 2824. REPORT ON COST INCREASE AND DELAY RELATED TO 
                   USSTRATCOM COMMAND AND CONTROL FACILITY PROJECT 
                   AT OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the 
     Department of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report on design errors and omissions 
     related to the construction of the USSTRATCOM command and 
     control facility project at Offutt Air Force Base.
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) The identification of the specific reasons that have 
     been used to explain the 16-month schedule delay and 10 
     percent cost increase for the project.
       (2) A description of the specific actions taken to prevent 
     further schedule delays and cost increases on this project as 
     well as lessons learned that will be applied to future 
     projects.
       (3) A description of any ongoing or completed proceedings 
     or investigation into a government employee, prime 
     contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental organization 
     that may be responsible for the delay and cost increases, and 
     the status of such proceeding or investigation.
       (4) If any proceeding or investigation identified in 
     paragraph (3) resulted in final judicial or administrative 
     action, the following:
       (A) In the case of a judicial or administrative action 
     taken against a government employee, the report shall 
     identify the individual's organization, name, position within 
     the organization, and the action taken against the 
     individual.
       (B) In the case of a judicial or administrative action 
     taken against a prime contractor, subcontractor, or non-
     governmental organization, the report shall identify the 
     prime contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental 
     organization and the action taken against the prime 
     contractor, subcontractor, or non-governmental organization.
       (5) A summary of any changes the Inspector General believes 
     may be required to the organizational structure, project 
     management and oversight practices, policy, or authorities of 
     a government organization involved in military construction 
     projects as a result of problems identified and lessons 
     learned from this project.
       (c) Supplemental Report on Ongoing Proceedings and 
     Investigations.--If any proceeding or investigation described 
     in subsection (b)(3) is still ongoing at the time the 
     Inspector General submits the report required by subsection 
     (a), the Inspector General shall provide a supplemental 
     report to the congressional defense committees not later than 
     30 days after such proceeding or investigation has been 
     completed. If such proceeding or investigation resulted in 
     final judicial or administrative action against a government 
     employee, prime contractor, subcontractor, or non-
     governmental organization, the Inspector General shall 
     include in the supplemental report the information required 
     by subsection (b)(4).

                     Subtitle D--Energy Resilience

     SEC. 2831. ENERGY RESILIENCE.

       (a) In General.--Section 2911 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in the section heading, by striking ``performance goals 
     and master plan for'' and inserting ``policy of'';
       (2) by redesignating subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and 
     (e) as subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) respectively;
       (3) by inserting before subsection (c), as redesignated by 
     paragraph (2), the following new subsections:
       ``(a) General Energy Policy.--The Secretary of Defense 
     shall ensure the readiness of the armed forces for their 
     military missions by pursuing energy security and energy 
     resilience.
       ``(b) Authorities.--In order to achieve the policy set 
     forth in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may--
       ``(1) require the Secretary of a military department to 
     establish and maintain an energy resilience master plan for 
     an installation;
       ``(2) authorize the use of energy security and energy 
     resilience, including the benefits of on-site generation 
     resources that reduce or avoid the cost of backup power, as 
     factors in the cost-benefit analysis for procurement of 
     energy; and
       ``(3) in selecting facility energy projects that will use 
     renewable energy sources, pursue energy security and energy 
     resilience by giving favorable consideration to projects that 
     provide power directly to a military facility or into the 
     installation electrical distribution network.'';
       (4) in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, the future demand 
     for energy, and the requirement for the use of energy'' after 
     ``energy'';
       (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
       ``(2) Opportunities to enhance energy resilience to ensure 
     the Department of Defense has the ability to prepare for and 
     recover from energy disruptions that impact mission assurance 
     on military installations.''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(13) Opportunities to leverage third-party financing to 
     address installation energy needs.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 173 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 2911 and inserting the following new 
     item:

``2911. Energy policy of the Department of Defense.''.
       (c) Conforming Amendments.--Chapter 173 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in section 2914, by striking ``energy resiliency'' each 
     place it appears and inserting ``energy resilience'';
       (2) in section 2915--
       (A) by striking ``subsection (c)'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``subsection (e)''; and
       (B) in subsection (e)(2)(C), by striking ``2911(b)(2)'' and 
     inserting ``2911(d)(2)'';
       (3) in section 2916(b)(2), by striking ``2911(b)'' and 
     inserting ``2911(c)'';
       (4) in section 2922b(a), by striking ``subsection (c)'' and 
     inserting ``subsection (e)'';
       (5) in section 2922f(a), by striking ``subsection (c)'' and 
     inserting ``subsection (e)'';
       (6) in section 2924--
       (A) by striking paragraph (3); and
       (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7) as 
     paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6), respectively; and
       (7) in section 2925(a)--
       (A) in the heading, by striking ``Resiliency'' and 
     inserting ``Energy Resilience''; and
       (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2911(e)'' and inserting 
     ``2911(g)''.
       (d) Definitions for Energy Resilience and Energy 
     Security.--Section 101(e) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(6) Energy resilience.--The term `energy resilience' 
     means the ability to avoid, prepare for, minimize, adapt to, 
     and recover from anticipated and unanticipated energy 
     disruptions in order to ensure energy availability and 
     reliability sufficient to provide for mission assurance and 
     readiness, including task critical assets and other mission 
     essential operations related to readiness, and to execute or 
     rapidly reestablish mission essential requirements.
       ``(7) Energy security.--The term `energy security' means 
     having assured access to reliable supplies of energy and the 
     ability to protect and deliver sufficient energy to meet 
     mission essential requirements.''.

     SEC. 2832. AUTHORITY TO USE ENERGY COST SAVINGS FOR ENERGY 
                   RESILIENCE, MISSION ASSURANCE, AND WEATHER 
                   DAMAGE REPAIR AND PREVENTION MEASURES.

       Section 2912(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``energy conservation and'' and inserting 
     ``energy resilience, mission assurance, weather damage repair 
     and prevention, energy conservation, and''.

     SEC. 2833. CONSIDERATION OF ENERGY SECURITY AND ENERGY 
                   RESILIENCE IN AWARDING ENERGY AND FUEL 
                   CONTRACTS FOR MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

       Section 2922a of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) The Secretary concerned shall prioritize energy 
     security and resilience.''.

     SEC. 2834. REQUIREMENT TO ADDRESS ENERGY RESILIENCE IN 
                   EXERCISING UTILITY SYSTEM CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY.

       Section 2688(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(3) The Secretary concerned may require in any contract 
     for the conveyance of a utility system (or part of a utility 
     system) under subsection (a) that the conveyee manage and 
     operate the utility system in a manner consistent with energy 
     resilience requirements and metrics provided to the conveyee 
     to ensure that the reliability of the utility system meets 
     mission requirements.
       ``(4) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
     Secretaries of the military departments, shall include in the 
     installation energy report submitted under section 2925(a) of 
     this title a description of progress in meeting energy 
     resilience metrics for all conveyance contracts entered into 
     pursuant to this section.''.

     SEC. 2835. IN-KIND LEASE PAYMENTS; PRIORITIZATION OF UTILITY 
                   SERVICES THAT PROMOTE ENERGY RESILIENCE.

       Section 2667(c)(1)(D) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting ``, which shall prioritize energy 
     resilience in the event of commercial grid outages'' after 
     ``Secretary concerned''.

[[Page H8864]]

  


     SEC. 2836. ANNUAL DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ENERGY MANAGEMENT 
                   REPORTS.

       Section 2925(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the 
     end the following: ``, including progress on energy 
     resilience at military installations according to metrics 
     developed by the Secretary'';
       (2) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
       ``(3) Details of all utility outages impacting energy 
     resilience at military installations (excluding planned 
     outages for maintenance reasons), whether caused by on- or 
     off-installation disruptions, including the total number and 
     location of outage, the duration of the outage, the financial 
     impact of the outage, whether or not the mission was 
     impacted, the mission requirements associated with disruption 
     tolerances based on risk to mission, the responsible 
     authority managing the utility, and measure taken to mitigate 
     the outage by the responsible authority.'';
       (3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
       (4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(4) Details of a military installation's total energy 
     requirements and critical energy requirements, and the 
     current energy resilience and emergency backup systems 
     servicing critical energy requirements, including, at a 
     minimum--
       ``(A) energy resilience and emergency backup system power 
     requirements;
       ``(B) the critical missions, facility, or facilities 
     serviced;
       ``(C) system service life;
       ``(D) capital, operations, maintenance, and testing costs; 
     and
       ``(E) other information the Secretary determines 
     necessary.''.

     SEC. 2837. AGGREGATION OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY 
                   RESILIENCE PROJECTS IN LIFE CYCLE COST 
                   ANALYSES.

       The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military 
     department, when conducting life cycle cost analyses with 
     respect to investments designed to lower costs and reduce 
     energy and water consumption, shall aggregate energy 
     efficiency projects and energy resilience improvements as 
     appropriate.

                      Subtitle E--Land Conveyances

     SEC. 2841. LAND EXCHANGE, NAVAL INDUSTRIAL RESERVE ORDNANCE 
                   PLANT, SUNNYVALE, CALIFORNIA.

       (a) Land Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy 
     may convey to an entity (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Exchange Entity'') all right, title, and interest of the 
     United States in and to the parcel of real property, 
     including improvements thereon, comprising the Naval 
     Industrial Reserve Ordnance Plant (NIROP) located in 
     Sunnyvale, California in exchange for--
       (1) real property, including improvements thereon, that 
     will replace the NIROP and meet the readiness requirements of 
     the Department of the Navy, as determined by the Secretary; 
     and
       (2) relocation of contractor and Government personnel and 
     equipment from the NIROP to the replacement facilities.
       (b) Land Exchange Agreement.--
       (1) In general.--The exchange authorized under subsection 
     (a) shall be governed by a land exchange agreement that 
     identifies the property to be exchanged (including 
     improvements thereon), the time period in which the exchange 
     will occur, and the roles and responsibilities of the 
     Secretary and the Exchange Entity in carrying out the 
     exchange.
       (2) Compliance with environmental laws.--Nothing in this 
     section shall be construed to affect or limit the application 
     of, or any obligation to comply with, any environmental law, 
     including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
       (c) Valuation; Cash Equalization Payment if NIROP Value 
     Exceeds Value of Exchanged Property.--
       (1) Valuation.--The values of the properties to be 
     exchanged by the Secretary and the Exchange Entity under 
     subsection (a) (including improvements thereon) shall be 
     determined by an independent appraiser selected by the 
     Secretary, and in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal 
     Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform 
     Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
       (2) Cash equalization payment.--If, as determined in 
     accordance with paragraph (1), the value of the NIROP is 
     greater than the combination of the value of the property to 
     be conveyed by the Exchange Entity under subsection (a) and 
     the relocation costs covered by the Exchange Entity under 
     such subsection, the Exchange Entity shall make a cash 
     equalization payment to the Secretary to equalize the values. 
     Nothing in this paragraph may be construed to require the 
     Secretary to make a cash equalization payment to the Exchange 
     Entity if the value of the property to be conveyed by the 
     Exchange Entity and the relocation costs covered by the 
     Exchange Entity are greater than the value of the NIROP.
       (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--The Secretary shall 
     require the Exchange Entity to pay costs incurred by the 
     Department of the Navy to carry out the exchange authorized 
     under subsection (a), including costs incurred for land 
     surveys, environmental documentation, the review of 
     replacement facilities design, real estate due diligence 
     (including appraisals), preparing and executing the agreement 
     described in subsection (b), and any other administrative 
     costs related to the exchange. If amounts are collected from 
     the Exchange Entity in advance of the Secretary incurring the 
     actual costs and the amount collected exceeds the costs 
     actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the exchange 
     under subsection (a), the Secretary shall refund the excess 
     amount to the Exchange Entity.
       (e) Treatment of Amounts Received.--Amounts received under 
     subsections (a), (c)(2), and (d) shall be used in accordance 
     with section 2695(c) of title 10, United States Code.
       (f) Description of Property.--The exact legal description 
     of the property, including acreage, to be exchanged under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to 
     the Secretary.
       (g) Relation to Other Military Construction Requirements.--
       (1) Exclusion from treatment as military construction 
     project.--The acquisition or disposition of any property 
     pursuant to the exchange authorized under subsection (a) 
     shall not be treated as a military construction project for 
     which an authorization is required by section 2802 of title 
     10, United States Code, or for which reporting is required by 
     section 2662 of such title.
       (2) Exclusion of requirement for prior screening by general 
     services administration for additional federal use.--Section 
     2696(b) of title 10, United States Code, does not apply to 
     the conveyance of any real property pursuant to the exchange 
     authorized under subsection (a).
       (h) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the exchange authorized under subsection (a) as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
     the United States.
       (i) Sunset.--The authority provided to the Secretary to 
     carry out the exchange under subsection (a) shall expire on 
     October 1, 2023.

     SEC. 2842. LAND CONVEYANCE, MOUNTAIN HOME AIR FORCE BASE, 
                   IDAHO.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
     may convey to the City of Mountain Home, Idaho (in this 
     section referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and 
     interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real 
     property, including improvements thereon, consisting of 
     approximately 4.25 miles of railroad spur located near 
     Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho, as further described in 
     subsection (c), for the purpose of economic development.
       (b) Consideration.--
       (1) Consideration required.--As consideration for the land 
     conveyed under subsection (a), the City shall pay to the 
     Secretary an amount equal to the fair market value of the 
     land, as determined by an appraisal approved by the 
     Secretary. The City shall provide an amount that is 
     acceptable to the Secretary, whether by cash payment, in-kind 
     consideration as described under paragraph (2), or a 
     combination thereof.
       (2) In-kind consideration.--In-kind consideration provided 
     by the City under paragraph (1) may include the acquisition, 
     construction, provision, improvement, maintenance, repair, or 
     restoration (including environmental restoration), or 
     combination thereof, of any facility or infrastructure under 
     the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
       (3) Treatment of consideration received.--Consideration in 
     the form of cash payment received by the Secretary under 
     paragraph (1) shall be deposited in the separate fund in the 
     Treasury described in section 572(a)(1) of title 40, United 
     States Code.
       (c) Map and Legal Description.--
       (1) Finalizing legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     the Air Force shall finalize a map and the legal description 
     of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a).
       (2) Minor errors.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
     correct any minor errors in the map or the legal description.
       (3) Availability.--The map and legal description shall be 
     on file and available for public inspection.
       (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
       (1) Payment required.--The Secretary may require the City 
     to cover all costs (except costs for environmental 
     remediation of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, 
     or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the 
     Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under this section, 
     including survey costs, costs for environmental 
     documentation, and any other administrative costs related to 
     the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the City in 
     advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the 
     amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
     Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall 
     refund the excess amount to the City.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
     paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the 
     Secretary to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a) 
     shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to 
     cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the 
     conveyance, or to an appropriate fund or account currently 
     available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the 
     costs were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with 
     amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for 
     the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and 
     limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
       (e) Use Reservation.--The Secretary may reserve a right to 
     temporarily use, for urgent reasons of national defense and 
     at no cost to the United States, all or a portion of the 
     railroad spur conveyed under subsection (a).
       (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.

[[Page H8865]]

  


     SEC. 2843. LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY TO THE UNITED STATES NAVAL 
                   ACADEMY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION AND NAVAL ACADEMY 
                   FOUNDATION AT UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY, 
                   ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND.

       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Navy may lease 
     approximately 3 acres at the United States Naval Academy in 
     Annapolis, Maryland to the United States Naval Academy Alumni 
     Association Inc. and the United States Naval Academy 
     Foundation Inc. (hereafter referred to as the ``lessees''), 
     for the purpose of enabling the lessees to construct, 
     operate, and maintain the Alumni Association and Foundation 
     Center.
       (b) Duration of Lease.--At the option of the Secretary of 
     the Navy, the lease entered into under this section shall be 
     in effect for 50 years. Upon the expiration of the lease, the 
     Secretary may extend the lease for such additional period as 
     the Secretary may determine.
       (c) Payments Under Lease.--
       (1) Amount of payments based on fair market value.--The 
     Secretary of the Navy shall require the lessees to make 
     payments under the lease entered into under this section, in 
     cash or in the form of in-kind consideration, in an amount 
     and form that reflects the fair market value of the lease as 
     determined by the Secretary.
       (2) Payments in the form of in-kind consideration.--
       (A) Timing.--To the extent that the lessees make payments 
     under the lease in the form of in-kind consideration, such 
     consideration may be paid as a lump-sum payment for the 
     entire lease term, or any part thereof, or in annual 
     installments.
       (B) Description of in-kind consideration.--The in-kind 
     consideration paid under the lease--
       (i) shall include the relocation of any Naval Support 
     Activity Annapolis functions presently located on the land to 
     be leased to alternate locations deemed sufficient by the 
     Secretary; and
       (ii) may include annual support (including cash, real 
     property, or personal property) provided by the lessees after 
     the date the lease is executed, to be used for the benefit 
     of, or for use in connection with, the Naval Academy.
       (d) Retention and Use of Funds.--Funds received under the 
     lease entered into under this section may be retained for use 
     in support of the Naval Academy and to cover expenses 
     incurred by the Secretary of the Navy in managing the lease.
       (e) Leaseback Prohibited.--During the period in which the 
     lease entered into under this section is in effect, the 
     Secretary of the Navy may not lease any of the space 
     constructed by the lessees on the property leased under this 
     section.
       (f) Payment of Costs of Entering Into and Managing Lease.--
       (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Navy shall 
     require the lessees to cover the costs to be incurred by the 
     Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs 
     incurred by the Secretary, in entering into and managing the 
     lease under this section, including survey costs, costs for 
     environmental documentation, and any other administrative 
     costs related to the lease (as defined in section 2667 of 
     title 10, United States Code). Any expenses incurred by the 
     lessees pursuant to this provision may be considered in-kind 
     consideration for purposes of subsection (c)(2) and may be 
     credited against any payments due during the term of the 
     lease.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
     reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the 
     fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred 
     by the Secretary in entering into and managing the lease. 
     Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund 
     or account, and shall be available for the same purposes, and 
     subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in 
     such fund or account. If amounts are collected from the 
     lessees in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual 
     costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually 
     incurred by the Secretary in entering into and managing the 
     lease, the Secretary may refund the excess amount to the 
     lessees.
       (g) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the property to be leased under this section 
     shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary 
     of the Navy, and may include property currently used for 
     public purposes.
       (h) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the 
     Navy may require such additional terms and conditions in 
     connection with the lease entered into under this section as 
     the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests 
     of the United States.

     SEC. 2844. LAND CONVEYANCE, NATICK SOLDIER SYSTEMS CENTER, 
                   MASSACHUSETTS.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     sell and convey all right, title, and interest of the United 
     States in and to parcels of real property, consisting of 
     approximately 98 acres and improvements thereon, located in 
     the vicinity of Hudson, Wayland, and Needham, Massachusetts, 
     that are the sites of military family housing supporting 
     military personnel assigned to the United States (U.S.) Army 
     Natick Soldier Systems Center.
       (b) Competitive Sale Requirement.--The Secretary shall use 
     competitive procedures for the sale authorized by subsection 
     (a).
       (c) Consideration.--
       (1) Consideration required.--The Secretary shall require as 
     consideration for conveyance under subsection (a), tendered 
     by cash payment, an amount equal to no less than the fair 
     market value, as determined by the Secretary, of the real 
     property and any improvements thereon.
       (2) Cash payments.--
       (A) Cash payments deposited in a special account.--Cash 
     payments provided as consideration under this subsection 
     shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury 
     established for the Secretary.
       (B) Use of funds in special account.--The Secretary is 
     authorized to use funds deposited in the special account 
     established under subparagraph (A) for--
       (i) demolition of existing military family housing on the 
     U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center (other than housing 
     on property conveyed under subsection (a)) that the Secretary 
     determines necessary to accommodate construction of military 
     family housing or unaccompanied soldier housing to support 
     military personnel assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier 
     Systems Center;
       (ii) construction or rehabilitation of military family 
     housing or unaccompanied soldier housing to support military 
     personnel assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems 
     Center; or
       (iii) construction of ancillary supporting facilities (as 
     that term is defined in section 2871(1) of title 10, United 
     States Code) to support military personnel assigned to the 
     U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center.
       (C) Cash consideration not used prior to october 1, 2025.--
     Cash payments provided as consideration under this subsection 
     that are received by the Secretary and not used by the 
     Secretary for purposes authorized by subparagraph (B) prior 
     to October 1, 2025, shall be transferred to an account in the 
     Treasury established pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, 
     United States Code.
       (d) Description of Parcels.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the parcels to be conveyed under subsection 
     (a) shall be determined by a survey that is satisfactory to 
     the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by the 
     recipient of the parcels.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
       (f) Inapplicability of Certain Provisions of Law.--The 
     conveyance of property under this section shall not be 
     subject to section 2696 of title 10, United States Code.
       (g) Definition of Secretary.--In this section the term 
     ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Army.

     SEC. 2845. LAND EXCHANGE, NAVAL AIR STATION CORPUS CHRISTI, 
                   TEXAS.

       (a) Land Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy 
     (in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') may convey 
     to the City of Corpus Christi, Texas (in this section 
     referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest 
     of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, 
     including improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 
     44 acres known as the Peary Place Transmitter Site in Nueces 
     County associated with Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, 
     Texas.
       (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance 
     under subsection (a), the City shall convey to the Secretary 
     its real property interests either adjacent or proximate, and 
     causing an encroachment concern as determined by the 
     Secretary, to Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, Naval 
     Outlying Landing Field Waldron and Naval Outlying Landing 
     Field Cabaniss.
       (c) Land Exchange Agreement.--The Secretary and the City 
     may enter into a land exchange agreement to implement this 
     section.
       (d) Valuation.--The value of each property interest to be 
     exchanged by the Secretary and the City described in 
     subsections (a) and (b) shall be determined--
       (1) by an independent appraiser selected by the Secretary; 
     and
       (2) in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
     Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Standards of 
     Professional Appraisal Practice.
       (e) Cash Equalization Payments.--
       (1) To the secretary.--If the value of the property 
     interests described in subsection (a) is greater than the 
     value of the property interests described in subsection (b), 
     the values shall be equalized through a cash equalization 
     payment from the City to the Department of the Navy.
       (2) No equalization.--If the value of the property 
     interests described in subsection (b) is greater than the 
     value of the property interests described in subsection (a), 
     the Secretary shall not make a cash equalization payment to 
     equalize the values.
       (f) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
       (1) Payment required.--The Secretary shall require the City 
     to pay costs to be incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
     exchange of property interests under this section, including 
     those costs related to land survey, environmental 
     documentation, real estate due diligence such as appraisals, 
     and any other administrative costs related to the exchange of 
     property interests to include costs incurred preparing and 
     executing the land exchange agreement authorized under 
     subsection (c). If amounts are collected from the City in 
     advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs and the 
     amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
     Secretary to carry out the exchange of property interests, 
     the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the City.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
     reimbursement under paragraph (1) above shall be used in 
     accordance with section 2695(c) of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (g) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the property interests to be exchanged under 
     this section shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to 
     the Secretary.
       (h) Conveyance Agreement.--The exchange of real property 
     interests under this section shall be accomplished using an 
     appropriate legal instrument and upon terms and conditions 
     mutually satisfactory to the Secretary and the

[[Page H8866]]

     City, including such additional terms and conditions as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
     the United States.
       (i) Exemption From Screening Requirements for Additional 
     Federal Use.--The authority under this section is exempt from 
     the screening process required under section 2696(b) of title 
     10, United States Code.
       (j) Sunset Provision.--The authority under this section 
     shall expire on October 1, 2019, unless the Secretary and the 
     City have signed a land exchange agreement described in 
     subsection (c).

     SEC. 2846. IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS ON FUTURE USE 
                   OF CASTNER RANGE, FORT BLISS, TEXAS.

       Section 2844 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 
     Stat. 2157) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(e) Additional Conditions on Future Use of Castner 
     Range.--
       ``(1) Conditions.--To protect and conserve ecological, 
     scenic, wildlife, recreational, cultural, historical, 
     natural, educational, and scientific resources within the 
     real property described in subsection (a), subject to rights 
     and improvements in existence as of December 31, 2017, there 
     shall be no commercial enterprise, no permanent road, no 
     temporary road, no use of motor vehicles or motorized 
     equipment, no landing of aircraft, no other form of 
     mechanical transport, and no structure, building or 
     installation of any kind, except measures required to protect 
     the health and safety of persons.
       ``(2) Applicability of conditions.--
       ``(A) Paragraph (1) applies to use of the real property by 
     the Secretary or any successor in interest including the head 
     of another federal agency or a non-federal entity.
       ``(B) The Secretary, or head of any other federal agency, 
     shall include the conditions set forth in paragraph (1) in 
     the conveyance authorized by subsection (a), or any 
     conveyance of the property described in subsection (a), or 
     any portion thereof, to any other non-federal entity.
       ``(3) Noncompliance.--Subsection (b) shall apply to a 
     determination by the Secretary, or head of any other federal 
     agency, that a non-federal entity to whom the property 
     described in subsection (a) or any portion thereof has been 
     conveyed, or any successor in interest, has not complied with 
     paragraph (1).
       ``(4) Military munitions.--The Secretary shall conduct 
     military munitions response actions on the real property 
     described in subsection (a) in accordance with the 
     Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and 
     Liability Act of 1980 and consistent with the limited 
     recreational, non-residential, non-commercial conditions on 
     future use set forth in paragraph (1). These munitions 
     response actions shall also minimize disturbance of natural 
     and cultural resources present on the real property described 
     in subsection (a).''.

     SEC. 2847. LAND CONVEYANCE, FORMER MISSILE ALERT FACILITY 
                   KNOWN AS QUEBEC-01, LARAMIE COUNTY, WYOMING.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
     may convey, without consideration, to the State of Wyoming 
     (in this section referred to as the ``State''), all right, 
     title, and interest of the United States in and to the real 
     property, including any improvements thereon, consisting of 
     the former Missile Alert Facility (MAF) known as ``Quebec-
     01,'' located in Laramie County, Wyoming, for the purpose of 
     operating a historical site, interpretive center, or museum.
       (b) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
       (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
     require the State to cover costs to be incurred by the 
     Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs 
     incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under 
     subsection (a), including survey costs, costs for 
     environmental documentation, and any other administrative 
     costs related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected 
     from the State in advance of the Secretary incurring the 
     actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs 
     actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
     conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to 
     the State.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
     reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the 
     fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred 
     by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance, or if such 
     fund or account has expired at the time of credit, to an 
     appropriate appropriation, fund, or account currently 
     available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the 
     costs were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with 
     amounts in such appropriation, fund, or account, and shall be 
     available for the same purpose, and subject to the same 
     conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
     account.
       (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the property to be conveyed under subsection 
     (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
     Secretary of the Air Force.
       (d) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of the Air 
     Force determines at any time that the real property conveyed 
     under subsection (a) is not being used in accordance with the 
     purpose of the conveyance specified in subsection (a), all 
     right, title, and interest in and to such real property, 
     including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of 
     the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the 
     United States, and the United States shall have the right of 
     immediate entry onto such real property. A determination by 
     the Secretary under this subsection shall be made on the 
     record after an opportunity for a hearing.
       (e) Additional Terms.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
     protect the interests of the United States.

         Subtitle F--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

     SEC. 2861. RECOGNITION OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF WORLD WAR II 
                   AVIATION.

       (a) Recognition.--The National Museum of World War II 
     Aviation in Colorado Springs, Colorado, is recognized as 
     America's National World War II Aviation Museum.
       (b) Effect of Recognition.--The National Museum recognized 
     by this section is not a unit of the National Park System, 
     and the recognition of the National Museum shall not be 
     construed to require or permit Federal funds to be expended 
     for any purpose related to the National Museum.

     SEC. 2862. PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF AVIATION HALL OF FAME.

       Section 23107 of title 36, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``Dayton,'' and all that follows through 
     ``trustees'' and inserting ``Ohio''.

     SEC. 2863. ESTABLISHMENT OF A VISITOR SERVICES FACILITY ON 
                   THE ARLINGTON RIDGE TRACT.

       (a) Arlington Ridge Tract Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``Arlington Ridge tract'' means the parcel of Federal 
     land located in Arlington County, Virginia, known as the 
     ``Nevius Tract'' and transferred to the Department of the 
     Interior in 1953, that is bounded generally by--
       (1) Arlington Boulevard (United States Route 50) to the 
     north;
       (2) Jefferson Davis Highway (Virginia Route 110) to the 
     east;
       (3) Marshall Drive to the south; and
       (4) North Meade Street to the west.
       (b) Establishment of Visitor Services Facility.--
     Notwithstanding section 2863(g) of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 
     115 Stat. 1332), the Secretary of the Interior may construct 
     a structure for visitor services, including a public restroom 
     facility, on the Arlington Ridge tract in the area of the 
     United States Marine Corps War Memorial.

     SEC. 2864. MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF 
                   VETERANS MEMORIAL OBJECTS TO FOREIGN 
                   GOVERNMENTS WITHOUT SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION IN 
                   LAW.

       (a) Description of Objects.--Paragraph (2)(B)(iii) of 
     section 2572(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``from abroad'' and inserting ``from abroad 
     before 1907''.
       (b) Extension of Prohibition.--Paragraph (3)(B) of section 
     2572(e) of such title is amended by striking ``September 30, 
     2017'' and inserting ``September 30, 2022''.
       (c) Permitting Transfer of Bells of Balangiga.--
       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 2572(e) of title 
     10, United States Code, the President may transfer the 
     veterans memorial object known as the ``Bells of Balangiga'' 
     to the Republic of the Philippines if the Secretary of 
     Defense certifies to Congress that--
       (A) the transfer of the object is in the national security 
     interests of the United States; and
       (B) appropriate steps have been taken to preserve the 
     history of the veterans associated with the object, including 
     consultation with associated veterans organizations and 
     government officials in the State of Wyoming, as appropriate.
       (2) Timing of transfer.--The President may not carry out 
     the transfer described in this subsection until at least 90 
     days after the Secretary of Defense provides Congress with 
     the certification required under paragraph (1).
       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect October 1, 2017.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

     SEC. 2871. AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE TO 
                   ACCEPT LESSEE IMPROVEMENTS AT AIR FORCE PLANT 
                   42.

       (a) Acceptance of Lessee Improvements at Air Force Plant 
     42.--A lease of Air Force Plant 42, in whole or part, may 
     permit the lessee, with the approval of the Secretary of the 
     Air Force, to alter, expand, or otherwise improve the plant 
     or facility as necessary for the development or production of 
     military weapons systems, munitions, components, or supplies. 
     Such lease may provide, notwithstanding section 2802 of title 
     10, United States Code, that such alteration, expansion or 
     other improvement shall, upon completion, become the property 
     of the Federal Government, regardless of whether such 
     alteration, expansion, or other improvement constitutes all 
     or part of the consideration for the lease pursuant to 
     section 2667(b)(5) of such title or represents a reimbursable 
     cost allocable to any contract, cooperative agreement, grant, 
     or other instrument with respect to activity undertaken at 
     Air Force Plant 42.
       (b) Congressional Notification.--When a decision is made to 
     approve a project to which subsection (a) applies costing 
     more than the threshold specified under section 2805(c) of 
     such title, the Secretary of the Air Force shall notify the 
     congressional defense committees in writing of that decision, 
     the justification for the project, and the estimated cost of 
     the project. The Secretary may not carry out the project 
     until the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date the 
     congressional defense committees receive such notification 
     or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the 
     date on which a copy of the notification is provided in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of such title.

     SEC. 2872. MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE GUIDANCE ON 
                   USE OF AIRFIELD PAVEMENT MARKINGS.

       (a) Modification Required.--Except as provided in 
     subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall require such 
     modifications of Unified Facilities Guide Specifications for 
     pavement markings (UFGS 32 17 23.00 20 Pavement Markings,

[[Page H8867]]

     UFGS 32 17 24.00 10 Pavement Markings), Air Force Engineering 
     Technical Letter ETL 97-18 (Guide Specification for Airfield 
     and Roadway Marking), and any other Department of Defense 
     guidance on airfield pavement markings as may be necessary to 
     prohibit the use of Type I glass beads or any glass beads 
     with a 1.6 refractive index or less from use on airfield 
     markings on airfields under the control of the Secretary.
       (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the 
     Secretary of the Air Force submits a certification to the 
     congressional defense committees that, whenever a proposed 
     contract for airfield pavement markings includes the use of 
     Type I and Type III glass beads, the assessment of the life-
     cycle costs associated with the use of such beads 
     appropriately considers the local site conditions, life-cycle 
     cost maintenance, environmental impact, operational 
     requirements, and the safety of flight.
       (c) Effective Date.--The modifications required under 
     subsection (a) shall apply with respect to procurements 
     occurring after September 30, 2018.

     SEC. 2873. AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OF ARMED 
                   FORCES RETIREMENT HOME TO ACQUIRE AND LEASE 
                   PROPERTY.

       (a) Acquisition of Property.--Section 1511(e) of the Armed 
     Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 411(e)) is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``Secretary of Defense may acquire,'' and 
     inserting ``Chief Operating Officer may acquire,''; and
       (B) by striking ``Secretary may acquire'' and inserting 
     ``Chief Operating Officer may acquire''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) by striking ``Secretary of Defense determines'' and 
     inserting ``Chief Operating Officer determines''; and
       (B) by striking ``Secretary shall dispose'' and inserting 
     ``Chief Operating Officer shall dispose''.
       (b) Leasing of Non-excess Property.--Subsection (i) of 
     section 1511 of such Act (24 U.S.C. 411(i)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by striking ``Whenever'' and inserting ``Subject to the 
     approval of the Secretary of Defense, whenever'';
       (B) by striking ``Secretary of Defense (acting on behalf of 
     the Chief Operating Officer)'' and inserting ``Chief 
     Operating Officer''; and
       (C) by striking ``Secretary considers'' and inserting 
     ``Chief Operating Officer considers'';
       (2) in paragraph (5), by striking ``the Secretary of 
     Defense may not enter into the lease on behalf of the Chief 
     Operating Officer'' and inserting ``the Chief Operating 
     Officer may not enter into the lease''; and
       (3) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (6), by striking 
     ``Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``Chief Operating 
     Officer''.

     SEC. 2874. RESTRICTIONS ON REHABILITATION OF OVER-THE-HORIZON 
                   BACKSCATTER RADAR STATION.

       (a) Restrictions.--Except as provided in subsection (b), 
     the Secretary of the Air Force may not use any funds or 
     resources to carry out the rehabilitation of the Over-the-
     Horizon Backscatter Radar Station on Modoc National Forest 
     land in Modoc County, California.
       (b) Exception for Removal of Perimeter Fence.--
     Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary may use funds 
     and resources to remove the perimeter fence surrounding the 
     Over-the-Horizon Backscatter Radar Station and to carry out 
     the mitigation of soil contamination associated with such 
     fence.
       (c) Sunset.--Subsection (a) shall terminate on the date of 
     the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2019.

     SEC. 2875. PERMITTING MACHINE ROOM-LESS ELEVATORS IN 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall issue 
     modifications to all relevant construction and facilities 
     specifications to ensure that machine room-less elevators 
     (MRLs) are not prohibited in buildings and facilities 
     throughout the Department of Defense, including modifications 
     to the Unified Facilities Guide Specifications (UFGS), the 
     Naval Facilities Engineering Command Interim Technical 
     Guidance, and the Army Corps of Engineers Engineering and 
     Construction Bulletin.
       (b) Conforming to Best Practices.--In addition to the 
     modifications required under subsection (a), the Secretary 
     may issue further modifications to conform generally with 
     commercial best practices as reflected in the safety code for 
     elevators and escalators as issued by the American Society of 
     Mechanical Engineers.
       (c) Deadlines.--The Secretary shall promulgate interim MRL 
     standards not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and shall issue final and formal MRL 
     specifications not later than 1 year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a report to 
     the congressional defense committees on the integration and 
     utilization of MRLs, including information on quantity, 
     location, problems, and successes.

     SEC. 2876. DISCLOSURE OF BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP BY FOREIGN 
                   PERSONS OF HIGH SECURITY SPACE LEASED BY THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Identification of Beneficial Ownership.--Before 
     entering into a lease agreement with a covered entity for 
     accommodation of a military department or Defense Agency in a 
     building (or other improvement) that will be used for high-
     security leased space, the Department of Defense shall 
     require the covered entity to--
       (1) identify each beneficial owner of the covered entity 
     by--
       (A) name;
       (B) current residential or business street address; and
       (C) in the case of a United States person, a unique 
     identifying number from a nonexpired passport issued by the 
     United States or a nonexpired drivers license issued by a 
     State; and
       (2) disclose to the Department of Defense any beneficial 
     owner of the covered entity that is a foreign person.
       (b) Required Disclosure.--
       (1) Initial disclosure.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     require a covered entity to provide the information required 
     under subsection (a), when first submitting a proposal in 
     response to a solicitation for offers issued by the 
     Department.
       (2) Updates.--The Secretary of Defense shall require a 
     covered entity to update a submission of information required 
     under subsection (a) not later than 60 days after the date of 
     any change in--
       (A) the list of beneficial owners of the covered entity; or
       (B) the information required to be provided relating to 
     each such beneficial owner.
       (c) Precautions.--If a covered entity discloses a foreign 
     person as a beneficial owner of a building (or other 
     improvement) from which the Department of Defense is leasing 
     high-security leased space, the Department of Defense shall 
     notify the tenant of the space to take appropriate security 
     precautions.
       (d) Definitions.--
       (1) Beneficial owner.--
       (A) In general.--The term beneficial owner--
       (i) means, with respect to a covered entity, each natural 
     person who, directly or indirectly--

       (I) exercises control over the covered entity through 
     ownership interests, voting rights, agreements, or otherwise; 
     or
       (II) has an interest in or receives substantial economic 
     benefits from the assets of the covered entity; and

       (ii) does not include, with respect to a covered entity--

       (I) a minor child;
       (II) a person acting as a nominee, intermediary, custodian, 
     or agent on behalf of another person;
       (III) a person acting solely as an employee of the covered 
     entity and whose control over or economic benefits from the 
     covered entity derives solely from the employment status of 
     the person;
       (IV) a person whose only interest in the covered entity is 
     through a right of inheritance, unless the person otherwise 
     meets the definition of ``beneficial owner'' under this 
     paragraph; and
       (V) a creditor of the covered entity, unless the creditor 
     otherwise meets the requirements of ``beneficial owner'' 
     described above.

       (B) Anti-abuse rule.--The exceptions under subparagraph 
     (A)(ii) shall not apply if used for the purpose of evading, 
     circumventing, or abusing the requirements of this section.
       (2) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means a 
     person, copartnership, corporation, or other public or 
     private entity.
       (3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means an 
     individual who is not a United States person or an alien 
     lawfully admitted for permanent residence into the United 
     States.
       (4) High-security leased space.--The term ``high-security 
     leased space'' means a space leased by the Department of 
     Defense that has a security level of III, IV, or V, as 
     determined in accordance with the Interagency Security 
     Committee Risk Management Process.
       (5) United states person.--The term ``United States 
     person'' means a natural person who is a citizen of the 
     United States or who owes permanent allegiance to the United 
     States.

     SEC. 2877. JOINT USE OF DOBBINS AIR RESERVE BASE, MARIETTA, 
                   GEORGIA, WITH CIVIL AVIATION.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Air Force may enter 
     into an agreement that would provide or permit the joint use 
     of Dobbins Air Reserve Base, Marietta, Georgia, by the Air 
     Force and civil aircraft.
       (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 312 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989 (Public Law 100-456; 102 
     Stat. 1950) is hereby repealed.

     SEC. 2878. REPORT ON HURRICANE DAMAGE TO DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE ASSETS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     damage to Department of Defense assets and installations from 
     hurricanes during 2017.
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) The results of a storm damage assessment.
       (2) A description of affected military installations and 
     assets.
       (3) A request for funding to initiate the repair and 
     replacement of damaged facilities and assets, including 
     necessary upgrades to existing facilities to make them 
     compliant with current hurricane standards, and to cover any 
     unfunded requirements for military construction at affected 
     military installations.
       (4) An adaptation plan to ensure military installations 
     funded with taxpayer dollars are constructed to better 
     withstand flooding and extreme weather events.

     SEC. 2879. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS.

       (a) Conditions on Use of Funds for Kwajalein Project.--
       (1) Conditions described.--The military family housing 
     replacement project at Kwajalein Atoll (as included under 
     title XXI) shall be subject to the following conditions:
       (A) The project shall provide for the construction of at 
     least 26 family housing units.
       (B) The housing units may be used to house only military 
     personnel, other Federal employees, and their dependents.

[[Page H8868]]

       (C) If the costs of the project exceed the amount 
     authorized for the project under title XXI, in addition to 
     meeting the requirements of section 2853 of title 10, United 
     States Code (as amended by this Act), the Secretary of the 
     Army shall submit a separate report to the congressional 
     defense committees which contains the following:
       (i) A detailed explanation of why the costs of the project 
     exceeded such authorized amount.
       (ii) A description of the specific actions taken to prevent 
     further cost increases on this project and lessons learned 
     that will be applied to future projects at this location.
       (iii) A summary of alternatives considered to keep the cost 
     of the project from exceeding such authorized amount.
       (2) Report on alternatives for funding contractor 
     workforce.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit 
     a report to the congressional defense committees detailing 
     options under consideration to meet the requirements for a 
     housing contractor workforce at Kwajalein Atoll which do not 
     rely on the use of military construction funds for the costs 
     of such a workforce.
       (b) Limitation on Certain Guam Project.--The Secretary of 
     the Navy may not carry out any construction activity on the 
     project on Guam known as the ``Replace Andersen Housing Phase 
     II'' project (as included under title XXII) until the 
     expiration of the 30-day period which begins on the date the 
     Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a 
     report certifying the following:
       (1) Either a sufficient workforce of contractors or 
     subcontractors is in place on Guam, or the Secretary has a 
     plan in place to ensure that a sufficient workforce of 
     contractors or subcontractors will be in place on Guam, to 
     perform the work required by the scope of the project.
       (2) A contract has been awarded for each of the following 
     military construction projects authorized by this Act, either 
     as a separate contract or as a joint contract with the 
     Replace Andersen House Phase II project:
       (A) Corrosion Control Hangar, Joint Region Marianas.
       (B) Aircraft Maintenance Hanger #2, Joint Region Marianas.
       (C) MALS Facilities, Joint Region Marianas.
       (D) Water Well Field, Joint Region Marianas.
       (E) Navy-Commercial Tie-In Hardening, Joint Region 
     Marianas.

     SEC. 2880. ENERGY SECURITY FOR MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN 
                   EUROPE.

       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense shall take 
     appropriate measures, to the extent practicable, to--
       (1) reduce the dependency of all United States military 
     installations in Europe on energy sourced inside Russia; and
       (2) ensure that all United States military installations in 
     Europe are able to sustain operations in the event of a 
     supply disruption.
       (b) Certification Requirement.--Not later than December 31, 
     2021, the Secretary of Defense shall certify to the 
     congressional defense committees whether or not at United 
     States military installations in Europe the Department of 
     Defense--
       (1) has taken significant steps to minimize to the extent 
     practicable the dependency on energy sourced inside the 
     Russian Federation at such installations; and
       (2) has the ability to sustain mission critical operations 
     during an energy supply disruption.
       (c) Definition of Energy Sources Inside Russia.--In this 
     section, the term ``energy sourced inside Russia'' means 
     energy that is produced, owned, or facilitated by companies 
     that are located in the Russian Federation or owned or 
     controlled by the Government of the Russian Federation.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition project.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
              project.
Sec. 2904. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
              acquisition project.
Sec. 2905. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2906. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

     SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.

       The Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and 
     carry out the military construction projects for the 
     installations outside the United States, and in the amounts, 
     set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                        Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cuba............................................  Guantanamo.................................       $115,000,000
Turkey..........................................  Various Locations..........................         $6,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECT.

       The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and 
     carry out the military construction projects for the 
     installation outside the United States, and in the amount, 
     set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                        Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Djibouti........................................  Camp Lemonnier.............................        $13,390,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECT.

       The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property 
     and carry out the military construction projects for the 
     installations outside the United States, and in the amounts, 
     set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                        Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Estonia.........................................  Amari Air Base.............................        $13,900,000
Hungary.........................................  Kecskemet Air Base.........................        $55,400,000
Iceland.........................................  Keflavik...................................        $14,400,000
Italy...........................................  Aviano Air Base............................        $27,325,000
Jordan..........................................  Azraq......................................       $143,000,000
Latvia..........................................  Lielvarde Air Base.........................         $3,850,000
Luxembourg......................................  Sanem......................................        $67,400,000
Norway..........................................  Rygge......................................        $10,300,000
Qatar...........................................  Al Udeid...................................        $15,000,000
Romania.........................................  Campia Turzii..............................         $2,950,000
Slovakia........................................  Silac Airport..............................        $22,000,000
                                                  Malacky....................................        $24,000,000
Turkey..........................................  Incirlik Air Base..........................        $48,697,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page H8869]]

  


     SEC. 2904. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECT.

       The Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and 
     carry out the military construction project for the 
     installation outside the United States, and in the amount, 
     set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                        Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy...........................................  Sigonella..................................        $22,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2905. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 2017, for the military 
     construction projects outside the United States authorized by 
     this title as specified in the funding table in section 4602.

     SEC. 2906. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2902 of that Act (128 Stat. 3717), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                             Extension of 2015 Air Force OCO Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Country                       Installation               Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy................................  Camp Darby.............  ERI: Improve Weapons     $44,500,000
                                                                 Storage Facility.
Poland...............................  Lask Air Base..........  ERI: Improve Support     $22,400,000
                                                                 Infrastructure.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Nuclear security enterprise infrastructure modernization 
              initiative.
Sec. 3112. Incorporation of integrated surety architecture in 
              transportation.
Sec. 3113. Cost estimates for life extension program and major 
              alteration projects.
Sec. 3114. Improved information relating to certain defense nuclear 
              nonproliferation programs.
Sec. 3115. Research and development of advanced naval reactor fuel 
              based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3116. National Nuclear Security Administration pay and performance 
              system.
Sec. 3117. Budget requests and certification regarding nuclear weapons 
              dismantlement.
Sec. 3118. Nuclear warhead design competition.
Sec. 3119. Modification of minor construction threshold for plant 
              projects.
Sec. 3120. Extension of authorization of Advisory Board on Toxic 
              Substances and Worker Health.
Sec. 3121. Use of funds for construction and project support activities 
              relating to MOX facility.
Sec. 3122. Prohibition on availability of funds for programs in Russian 
              Federation.

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Annual Selected Acquisition Reports on certain hardware 
              relating to defense nuclear nonproliferation.
Sec. 3132. Annual reports on unfunded priorities of National Nuclear 
              Security Administration.
Sec. 3133. Modification of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 3134. Modification to stockpile stewardship, management, and 
              responsiveness plan.
Sec. 3135. Assessment and development of prototype nuclear weapons of 
              foreign countries.
Sec. 3136. Plan for verification, detection, and monitoring of nuclear 
              weapons and fissile material.
Sec. 3137. Review of United States nuclear and radiological terrorism 
              prevention strategy.
Sec. 3138. Assessment of management and operating contracts of national 
              security laboratories.
Sec. 3139. Evaluation of classification of certain defense nuclear 
              waste.
Sec. 3140. Improved reporting for anti-smuggling radiation detection 
              systems.
Sec. 3141. Plutonium capabilities.
Sec. 3142. Report on critical decision 1 on Material Staging Facility 
              project.
Sec. 3143. Plan to further minimize the use of highly enriched uranium 
              for medical isotopes.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 3151. Sense of Congress regarding compensation of individuals 
              relating to uranium mining and nuclear testing.

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

     SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the activities of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration in carrying out programs as specified 
     in the funding table in division D.
       (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds 
     referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying 
     out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out new 
     plant projects for the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration as follows:
       Project 18-D-150, Surplus Plutonium Disposition, Savannah 
     River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $9,000,000.
       Project 18-D-620, Exascale Computing Facility Modernization 
     Project, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, 
     California, $3,000,000.
       Project 18-D-650, Tritium Production Capability, Savannah 
     River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $6,800,000.
       Project 18-D-660, Fire Station, Y-12 National Security 
     Complex, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, $28,000,000.
       Project 18-D-670, Exascale Class Computer Cooling 
     Equipment, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New 
     Mexico, $22,000,000.
       Project 18-D-680, Material Staging Facility, Pantex Plant, 
     Amarillo, Texas, $5,200,000.
       (c) Modification of Authority to Carry Out Albuquerque 
     Complex Upgrades Construction Project.--
       (1) In general.--The Administrator for Nuclear Security may 
     enter into an incrementally funded contract for Project 16-D-
     515, the Albuquerque Complex upgrades construction project, 
     Albuquerque, New Mexico.
       (2) Limitation.--The total cost for the Albuquerque Complex 
     upgrades construction project may not exceed $174,700,000.
       (3) Funding of increments.--
       (A) Increment 1.--The amount authorized to be appropriated 
     by section 3101 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2754) for 
     fiscal year 2017 and available for Project 16-D-515 as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4701 of that Act 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2890) shall be deemed to be an 
     amount authorized to be appropriated for increment 1 of the 
     Albuquerque Complex upgrades construction project.
       (B) Increment 2.--The amount authorized to be appropriated 
     by this section for fiscal year 2018 and available for 
     Project 16-D-515 as specified in the funding table in 
     division D shall be available for increment 2 of the 
     Albuquerque Complex upgrades construction project.

     SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.

       (a) In General.--Funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 
     for defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out 
     programs as specified in the funding table in division D.
       (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds 
     referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying 
     out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out new 
     plant projects for the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration as follows:

[[Page H8870]]

       Project 18-D-401, Saltstone Disposal Units #8 and #9, 
     Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $500,000.
       Project 18-D-402, Emergency Operations Center Replacement, 
     Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $500,000.
       Project 18-D-404, Modification of Waste Encapsulation and 
     Storage Facility, Hanford Site, Richland, Washington, 
     $6,500,000.

     SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 for other defense 
     activities in carrying out programs as specified in the 
     funding table in division D.

     SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 for nuclear energy 
     as specified in the funding table in division D.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

     SEC. 3111. NUCLEAR SECURITY ENTERPRISE INFRASTRUCTURE 
                   MODERNIZATION INITIATIVE.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) On September 7, 2016, during testimony before the 
     Subcommittee on Strategic Forces of the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives--
       (A) the Administrator for Nuclear Security, Frank Klotz, 
     said--
       (i) ``Our infrastructure is extensive, complex, and, in 
     many critical areas, several decades old. More than half of 
     NNSA's approximately 6,000 real property assets are over 40 
     years old, and nearly 30 percent date back to the Manhattan 
     Project era. Many of the enterprise's critical utility, 
     safety, and support systems are failing at an increasing and 
     unpredictable rate, which poses both programmatic and safety 
     risk.''; and
       (ii) ``I can think of no greater threat to the nuclear 
     security enterprise than the state of NNSA's 
     infrastructure.'';
       (B) the President and Chief Executive Officer of 
     Consolidated Nuclear Security, Morgan Smith, said, ``Many key 
     facilities at both [Pantex and Y-12] were constructed in the 
     1940s and were intended to operate for as little as one 
     decade. Many facilities and their supporting infrastructure 
     have exceeded or far exceeded their expected life, and major 
     systems within the facilities are beginning to fail.''; and
       (C) the Director of Los Alamos National Laboratory, Dr. 
     Charlie McMillan, said, ``One of the things that keeps me up 
     at night is the realization that essential capabilities are 
     held at risk by the possibility of such failures; in many 
     cases, our enterprise has a single point of failure.''.
       (2) In a letter sent on December 23, 2015, by the Secretary 
     of Energy, Ernest Moniz, to the Director of the Office of 
     Management and Budget, Shaun Donovan, the Secretary said, ``A 
     majority of the National Nuclear Security Administration's 
     (NNSA) facilities and systems are well beyond end-of-life.... 
     Infrastructure problems such as falling ceilings are 
     increasing in frequency and severity, unacceptably risking 
     the safety and security of both personnel and material at 
     NNSA facilities, as well as in some instances, potential 
     offsite risks. The entire complex could be placed at risk if 
     there is a single failure where a single point would disrupt 
     a critical link in infrastructure.''.
       (3) The Nuclear Posture Review published in April 2010 
     stated that ``In order to sustain a safe, secure, and 
     effective U.S. nuclear stockpile as long as nuclear weapons 
     exist, the United States must possess a modern physical 
     infrastructure.... Today's nuclear complex, however, has 
     fallen into neglect. Although substantial science, 
     technology, and engineering investments were made over the 
     last decade under the auspices of the Stockpile Stewardship 
     Program, the complex still includes many oversized and 
     costly-to maintain facilities built during the 1940s and 
     1950s. Some facilities needed for working with plutonium and 
     uranium date back to the Manhattan Project. Safety, security, 
     and environmental issues associated with these aging 
     facilities are mounting, as are the costs of addressing 
     them.''.
       (4) In 2009, the bipartisan Congressional Commission on the 
     Strategic Posture of the United States established by section 
     1062 of the National Defense Authorization for Fiscal Year 
     2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 319) stated, with regards 
     to key production facilities, that ``existing facilities are 
     genuinely decrepit and are maintained in a safe and secure 
     manner only at high cost''.
       (5) Previous efforts to address the deferred maintenance 
     and repair challenges within the nuclear security enterprise, 
     such as the Facilities Infrastructure and Recapitalization 
     Program and the recent halt in the growth of backlog metrics, 
     are laudable but insufficient for the magnitude of the 
     problem.
       (6) Recent figures provided by the Administrator for 
     Nuclear Security estimate the backlog of deferred maintenance 
     and repair needs of the nuclear security enterprise to be 
     approximately $3,700,000,000.
       (b) Infrastructure Modernization Initiative.--
       (1) Establishment.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear 
     Security shall establish and carry out a program, to be known 
     as the ``Infrastructure Modernization Initiative'', to reduce 
     the backlog of deferred maintenance and repair needs of the 
     nuclear security enterprise (as defined in section 4002(6) of 
     the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501(6))). In 
     carrying out that program, the Administrator shall establish 
     and execute infrastructure modernization milestones that 
     reduce the deferred maintenance and repair needs of the 
     nuclear security enterprise by not less than 30 percent by 
     2025.
       (2) Authorities.--
       (A) Process.--
       (i) In general.--The Secretary of Energy shall provide to 
     the Administrator a process that will enhance or streamline 
     the ability of the Administrator to carry out the program 
     under paragraph (1) in an efficient and effective manner, 
     including with respect to--

       (I) the demolition or construction of non-nuclear 
     facilities of the Administration that have a total estimated 
     project cost of less than $100,000,000; and
       (II) the decontamination, decommissioning, and demolition 
     (to be performed in accordance with applicable health and 
     safety standards used by the Defense Environmental Cleanup 
     Program) of process-contaminated facilities of the 
     Administration that have a total estimated project cost of 
     less than $50,000,000.

       (ii) Funding.--Clause (i) may be carried out using amounts 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 or any 
     subsequent fiscal year.
       (B) Application of certain requirements.--For purposes of 
     the Management Procedures Memorandum 2015-01 of the Office of 
     Management and Budget, or a successor memorandum, in carrying 
     out the program under paragraph (1), the Administrator may--
       (i) perform new construction during a fiscal year that 
     differs from the fiscal year of corresponding facility 
     demolition;
       (ii) perform demolition of different facility category 
     codes and have that demolition credit count towards the 
     construction of new facilities with a different facility 
     category code; and
       (iii) have the net reduction in infrastructure footprint 
     for the five fiscal years prior to the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, and the demolition during the five fiscal years 
     following such date of enactment, considered as a factor for 
     the purpose of meeting the intent of such memorandum.
       (3) Initial plan.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees an initial plan to carry out the program under 
     paragraph (1) to achieve the goal specified in such 
     paragraph. Such plan shall include--
       (A) the funding required to carry out the program during 
     the period covered by the future-years nuclear security 
     program under section 3253 of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2453);
       (B) the criteria for selecting and prioritizing projects 
     within the program under paragraph (1);
       (C) mechanisms for ensuring the robust management and 
     oversight of such projects;
       (D) a description of the process provided to the 
     Administrator to carry out the program pursuant to paragraph 
     (2)(A); and
       (E) a description of any legislative actions the 
     Administrator recommends to further enhance or streamline 
     authorities or processes relating to the program.
       (4) Reassessment.--Not later than February 1, 2024, the 
     Administrator shall reassess the program under paragraph (1) 
     and, as appropriate, develop and establish goals for the 
     program beyond 2025.
       (c) Inclusion in Biennial Detailed Report.--Section 
     4203(d)(4) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
     2523(d)(4)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
     inserting a semicolon;
       (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(D)(i) a description of--
       ``(I) the metrics (based on industry best practices) used 
     by the Administrator to determine the infrastructure deferred 
     maintenance and repair needs of the nuclear security 
     enterprise; and
       ``(II) the percentage of replacement plant value being 
     spent on maintenance and repair needs of the nuclear security 
     enterprise; and
       ``(ii) an explanation of whether the annual spending on 
     such needs complies with the recommendation of the National 
     Research Council of the National Academies of Sciences, 
     Engineering, and Medicine that such spending be in an amount 
     equal to four percent of the replacement plant value, and, if 
     not, the reasons for such noncompliance and a plan for how 
     the Administrator will ensure facilities of the nuclear 
     security enterprise are being properly sustained.''.
       (d) Requirements Relating to Critical Decisions.--
       (1) In general.--Subtitle A of title XLVII of the Atomic 
     Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2741 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 4715. MATTERS RELATING TO CRITICAL DECISIONS.

       ``(a) Post-critical Decision 2 Changes.--After the date on 
     which a plant project specifically authorized by law and 
     carried out under Department of Energy Order 413.3B (relating 
     to program management and project management for the 
     acquisition of capital assets), or a successor order, 
     achieves critical decision 2, the Administrator may not 
     change the requirements for such project if such change 
     increases the cost of such project by more than the lesser of 
     $5,000,000 or 15 percent, unless--
       ``(1) the Administrator submits to the congressional 
     defense committees--
       ``(A) a certification that the Administrator, without 
     delegation, authorizes such proposed change; and
       ``(B) a cost-benefit and risk analysis of such proposed 
     change, including with respect to--
       ``(i) the effects of such proposed change on the project 
     cost and schedule; and
       ``(ii) any mission risks and operational risks from making 
     such change or not making such change; and
       ``(2) a period of 15 days elapses following the date of 
     such submission.

[[Page H8871]]

       ``(b) Review and Approval.--The Administrator shall ensure 
     that critical decision packages are timely reviewed and 
     either approved or disapproved.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents at the 
     beginning of such Act is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 4714 the following new item:

``Sec. 4715. Matters relating to critical decisions.''.
       (e) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the nuclear security enterprise, comprised of the 
     infrastructure and capabilities of the laboratories and 
     plants coupled with the dedicated and talented scientists, 
     engineers, technicians, and administrators who form the 
     backbone of the enterprise, are a central component of the 
     nuclear deterrent of the United States;
       (2) if left unaddressed, the state of the infrastructure 
     within the nuclear security enterprise represents a direct, 
     long-term threat to the credibility of the nuclear deterrent 
     of the United States;
       (3) both Congress and the President must take strong, 
     sustained action to recapitalize and repair this 
     infrastructure;
       (4) the Administrator must continue to carry out 
     expeditious demolition of old facilities of the 
     Administration to reduce long-term costs and improve safety; 
     and
       (5) each budget of the President submitted to Congress 
     under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for 
     fiscal year 2019 and each fiscal year thereafter should 
     include funding in an amount sufficient to carry out the 
     program established pursuant to subsection (b)(1) to achieve 
     the goal specified in such subsection.

     SEC. 3112. INCORPORATION OF INTEGRATED SURETY ARCHITECTURE IN 
                   TRANSPORTATION.

       (a) Incorporation.--Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic 
     Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 4222. INCORPORATION OF INTEGRATED SURETY ARCHITECTURE.

       ``(a) Shipments.--(1) The Administrator shall ensure that 
     shipments described in paragraph (2) incorporate surety 
     technologies relating to transportation and shipping 
     developed by the Integrated Surety Architecture program of 
     the Administration.
       ``(2) A shipment described in this paragraph is an over-
     the-road shipment of the Administration that involves any 
     nuclear weapon planned to be in the active stockpile after 
     2025.
       ``(b) Certain Programs.--(1) The Administrator, in 
     coordination with the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons 
     Council, shall ensure that each program described in 
     paragraph (2) incorporates integrated designs compatible with 
     the Integrated Surety Architecture program.
       ``(2) A program described in this subsection is a program 
     of the Administration that is a warhead development program, 
     a life extension program, or a warhead major alteration 
     program.
       ``(c) Determination.--(1) If, on a case-by-case basis, the 
     Administrator determines that a shipment under subsection (a) 
     will not incorporate some or all of the surety technologies 
     described in such subsection, or that a program under 
     subsection (b) will not incorporate some or all of the 
     integrated designs described in such subsection, the 
     Administrator shall submit such determination to the 
     congressional defense committees, including the results of an 
     analysis conducted pursuant to paragraph (2).
       ``(2) Each determination made under paragraph (1) shall be 
     based on a documented, system risk analysis that considers 
     security risk reduction, operational impacts, and technical 
     risk.
       ``(d) Termination.--The requirements of subsections (a) and 
     (b) shall terminate on December 31, 2029.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 4221 the following new item:

``Sec. 4222. Incorporation of integrated surety architecture.''.

     SEC. 3113. COST ESTIMATES FOR LIFE EXTENSION PROGRAM AND 
                   MAJOR ALTERATION PROJECTS.

       Section 4217(b) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
     2537(b)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Independent Cost Estimates and Reviews.--(1) The 
     Secretary, acting through the Administrator, shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees and the Nuclear Weapons 
     Council the following:
       ``(A) An independent cost estimate of the following:
       ``(i) Each nuclear weapon system undergoing life extension 
     at the completion of phase 6.2A, relating to design 
     definition and cost study.
       ``(ii) Each nuclear weapon system undergoing life extension 
     at the completion of phase 6.3, relating to development 
     engineering.
       ``(iii) Each nuclear weapon system undergoing life 
     extension at the completion of phase 6.4, relating to 
     production engineering, and before the initiation of phase 
     6.5, relating to first production.
       ``(iv) Each new nuclear facility within the nuclear 
     security enterprise that is estimated to cost more than 
     $500,000,000 before such facility achieves critical decision 
     1 and before such facility achieves critical decision 2 in 
     the acquisition process.
       ``(v) Each nuclear weapons system undergoing a major 
     alteration project (as defined in section 4713(a)(2)).
       ``(B) An independent cost review of each nuclear weapon 
     system undergoing life extension at the completion of phase 
     6.2, relating to study of feasibility and down-select.
       ``(2) Each independent cost estimate and independent cost 
     review under paragraph (1) shall include--
       ``(A) whether the cost baseline or the budget estimate for 
     the period covered by the future-years nuclear security 
     program has changed, and the rationale for any such change; 
     and
       ``(B) any views of the Secretary or the Administrator 
     regarding such estimate or review.
       ``(3) The Administrator shall review and consider the 
     results of any independent cost estimate or independent cost 
     review of a nuclear weapon system or a nuclear facility, as 
     the case may be, under this subsection before entering the 
     next phase of the development process of such system or the 
     acquisition process of such facility.
       ``(4) Except as otherwise specified in paragraph (1), each 
     independent cost estimate or independent cost review of a 
     nuclear weapon system or a nuclear facility under this 
     subsection shall be submitted not later than 30 days after 
     the date on which--
       ``(A) in the case of a nuclear weapons system, such system 
     completes a phase specified in such paragraph; or
       ``(B) in the case of a nuclear facility, such facility 
     achieves critical decision 1 as specified in subparagraph 
     (A)(iv) of such paragraph.
       ``(5) Each independent cost estimate or independent cost 
     review submitted under this subsection shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may include a classified annex if 
     necessary.''.

     SEC. 3114. IMPROVED INFORMATION RELATING TO CERTAIN DEFENSE 
                   NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION PROGRAMS.

       (a) Improved Information.--Title XLIII of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2563 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
     the end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 4310. INFORMATION RELATING TO CERTAIN DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
                   NONPROLIFERATION PROGRAMS.

       ``(a) Technologies and Capabilities.--The Administrator 
     shall document, for efforts that are not focused on basic 
     research, the technologies and capabilities of the defense 
     nuclear nonproliferation research and development program 
     that--
       ``(1) are transitioned to end users for further development 
     or deployment; and
       ``(2) are deployed.
       ``(b) Assessments of Status.--(1) In assessing projects 
     under the defense nuclear nonproliferation research and 
     development program or the defense nuclear nonproliferation 
     and arms control program, the Administrator shall compare the 
     status of each such project, including with respect to the 
     final results of such project, to the baseline targets and 
     goals established in the initial project plan of such 
     project.
       ``(2) The Administrator may carry out paragraph (1) using a 
     common template or such other means as the Administrator 
     determines appropriate.''.
       (b) Inclusion in Plan.--Section 4309(b) of such Act (50 
     U.S.C. 2575(b)) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (16) as paragraph (18); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (15) the following new 
     paragraphs:
       ``(16) A summary of the technologies and capabilities 
     documented under section 4310(a).
       ``(17) A summary of the assessments conducted under section 
     4310(b)(1).''.
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 4309 the following new item:

``Sec. 4310. Information relating to certain defense nuclear 
              nonproliferation programs.''.

     SEC. 3115. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF ADVANCED NAVAL REACTOR 
                   FUEL BASED ON LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.

       (a) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Fiscal Year 
     2018.--
       (1) Research and development.--Except as provided by 
     paragraph (2), none of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Energy or the 
     Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to plan or 
     carry out research and development of an advanced naval 
     nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium.
       (2) Exception.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for defense nuclear nonproliferation, as specified in the 
     funding table in division D--
       (A) $5,000,000 shall be made available to the Deputy 
     Administrator for Naval Reactors of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration for low-enriched uranium activities 
     (including downblending of high-enriched uranium fuel into 
     low-enriched uranium fuel, research and development using 
     low-enriched uranium fuel, or the modification or procurement 
     of equipment and infrastructure related to such activities) 
     to develop an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on 
     low-enriched uranium; and
       (B) if the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the 
     Navy determine under section 3118(c)(1) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
     114-92; 129 Stat. 1196) that such low-enriched uranium 
     activities and research and development should continue, an 
     additional $30,000,000 may be made available to the Deputy 
     Administrator for such purpose.
       (b) Prohibition on Availability of Funds Regarding Certain 
     Accounts and Purposes.--
       (1) Research and development and procurement.--Chapter 633 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
     end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 7319. Requirements for availability of funds relating 
       to advanced naval nuclear fuel systems based on low-
       enriched uranium

       ``(a) Authorization.--Low-enriched uranium activities may 
     only be carried out using funds

[[Page H8872]]

     authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for 
     the Department of Energy for atomic energy defense activities 
     for defense nuclear nonproliferation.
       ``(b) Prohibition Regarding Certain Accounts.--(1) None of 
     the funds described in paragraph (2) may be obligated or 
     expended to carry out low-enriched uranium activities.
       ``(2) The funds described in this paragraph are funds 
     authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for 
     any fiscal year for any of the following accounts:
       ``(A) Shipbuilding and conversion, Navy, or any other 
     account of the Department of Defense.
       ``(B) Any account within the atomic energy defense 
     activities of the Department of Energy other than defense 
     nuclear nonproliferation, as specified in subsection (a).
       ``(3) The prohibition in paragraph (1) may not be 
     superseded except by a provision of law that specifically 
     supersedes, repeals, or modifies this section. A provision of 
     law, including a table incorporated into an Act, that 
     appropriates funds described in paragraph (2) for low-
     enriched uranium activities may not be treated as 
     specifically superseding this section unless such provision 
     specifically cites to this section.
       ``(c) Low-enriched Uranium Activities Defined.--In this 
     section, the term `low-enriched uranium activities' means the 
     following:
       ``(1) Planning or carrying out research and development of 
     an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched 
     uranium.
       ``(2) Procuring ships that use low-enriched uranium in 
     naval nuclear propulsion reactors.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``7319. Requirements for availability of funds relating to advanced 
              naval nuclear fuel systems based on low-enriched 
              uranium.''.
       (c) Reports.--
       (1) SSN(x) submarine.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy 
     and the Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors shall jointly 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a report on the cost and 
     timeline required to assess the feasibility, costs, and 
     requirements for a design of the Virginia-class replacement 
     nuclear attack submarine that would allow for the use of a 
     low-enriched uranium fueled reactor, if technically feasible, 
     without changing the diameter of the submarine.
       (2) Research and development.--Not later than 60 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Deputy 
     Administrator for Naval Reactors shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate a report on--
       (A) the planned research and development activities on low-
     enriched uranium and highly enriched uranium fuel that could 
     apply to the development of a low-enriched uranium fuel or an 
     advanced highly enriched uranium fuel; and
       (B) with respect to such activities for each such fuel--
       (i) the costs associated with such activities; and
       (ii) a detailed proposal for funding such activities.

     SEC. 3116. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION PAY AND 
                   PERFORMANCE SYSTEM.

       (a) Pay Adjustment Demonstration Project.--
       (1) Extension.--The Administrator for Nuclear Security 
     shall carry out the pay banding and performance-based pay 
     adjustment demonstration project of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration authorized under section 4703 of 
     title 5, United States Code, until the date that is 10 years 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (2) Modifications.--In carrying out the demonstration 
     project described in paragraph (1), the Administrator--
       (A) may, subject to subparagraph (B), revise the 
     requirements and limitations of the demonstration project to 
     the extent necessary; and
       (B) shall--
       (i) ensure that the demonstration project is carried out in 
     a manner consistent with the plan for the demonstration 
     project published in the Federal Register on December 21, 
     2007 (72 Fed. Reg. 72776);
       (ii) ensure that significant changes in the demonstration 
     project not take effect until revisions, as necessary and 
     applicable, to the plan for the demonstration project are 
     approved by the Office of Personnel Management and published 
     in the Federal Register;
       (iii) ensure that procedural modifications or 
     clarifications to the plan for the demonstration project be 
     made through local notification processes;
       (iv) authorize, and establish incentives for, employees of 
     the National Nuclear Security Administration to have 
     rotational assignments among different programs of the 
     Administration, the headquarters and field offices of the 
     Administration, and the management and operating contractors 
     of the Administration; and
       (v) establish requirements for employees of the 
     Administration who are in the demonstration project described 
     in paragraph (1) to be promoted to senior-level positions in 
     the Administration, including requirements with respect to--

       (I) professional training and continuing education; and
       (II) a certain number and types of rotational assignments 
     under clause (iv), as determined by the Administrator.

       (3) Application to naval nuclear propulsion program.--The 
     Director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program established 
     pursuant to section 4101 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
     U.S.C. 2511) and section 3216 of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2406) may, with the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of the Navy, apply the 
     demonstration project described in paragraph (1) to--
       (A) all employees of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program 
     in the competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of 
     title 5, United States Code); and
       (B) all employees of the Department of Navy who are 
     assigned to the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program and are in 
     the excepted service (as defined in section 2103 of title 5, 
     United States Code) (other than such employees in statutory 
     excepted service systems).
       (b) Rotations for Certain Contractors.--
       (1) Increased use.--The Administrator for Nuclear Security 
     shall increase the use of rotational assignments of employees 
     of the management and operating contractors of the National 
     Nuclear Security Administration to the headquarters of the 
     Administration, the Department of Defense and the military 
     departments, the intelligence community, and other 
     departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
       (2) Methods.--The Administrator shall carry out paragraph 
     (1) by--
       (A) establishing incentives for--
       (i) the management and operating contractors of the 
     Administration and the employees of such contractors to 
     participate in rotational assignments; and
       (ii) the departments and agencies of the Federal Government 
     specified in such paragraph to facilitate such assignments;
       (B) providing professional and leadership development 
     opportunities during such assignments;
       (C) using details and other applicable authorities and 
     programs, including the mobility program under subchapter VI 
     of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
     referred to as the ``Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility 
     Program''); and
       (D) taking such other actions as the Administrator 
     determines appropriate to increase the use of such rotational 
     assignments.
       (c) Red-team Analysis.--
       (1) Analysis.--The Director for Cost Estimating and Program 
     Evaluation of the National Nuclear Security Administration 
     shall carry out a red-team analysis of the Federal employee 
     staffing structure of the Administration with respect to the 
     Administrator for Nuclear Security meeting the authorized 
     personnel levels under section 3241A of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441a).
       (2) Matters included.--The analysis under paragraph (1) 
     shall include assessments of--
       (A) the number of Federal employees within each program of 
     the Administration, and whether such numbers are 
     appropriately balanced with respect to the size, scope, 
     functions, budgets, and risks, of the program; and
       (B) the number of Senior Executive Service positions (as 
     defined in section 3132(a) of title 5, United States Code) 
     within the Administration, including a comparison of such 
     number to other comparable departments and agencies of the 
     Federal Government, and whether such number is appropriate.
       (d) Briefings.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act--
       (A) the Administrator shall provide a briefing to the 
     appropriate congressional committees on the implementation 
     of--
       (i) section 3248 of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration Act, as added by subsection (a); and
       (ii) subsection (b); and
       (B) the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation 
     shall provide to such committees a briefing on the analysis 
     under subsection (c).
       (2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources of the Senate; and
       (C) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.

     SEC. 3117. BUDGET REQUESTS AND CERTIFICATION REGARDING 
                   NUCLEAR WEAPONS DISMANTLEMENT.

       Section 3125 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2766) is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
     subsections:
       ``(d) Budget Requests.--The Administrator for Nuclear 
     Security shall ensure that the budget of the President 
     submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
     United States Code, for each of fiscal years 2019 through 
     2021 includes amounts for the nuclear weapons dismantlement 
     and disposition activities of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration in accordance with the limitation in 
     subsection (a).
       ``(e) Certification.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Administrator shall certify to the congressional defense 
     committees that the Administrator is carrying out the nuclear 
     weapons dismantlement and disposition activities of the 
     Administration in accordance with the limitations in 
     subsections (a) and (b).''.

     SEC. 3118. NUCLEAR WARHEAD DESIGN COMPETITION.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) In January 2016, the co-chairs of a congressionally 
     mandated study panel from the National Academies of Science 
     testified to the following before the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives:
       (A) ``The National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) 
     complex must engage in robust design competitions in order to 
     exercise the design and production skills that underpin 
     stockpile stewardship and are necessary to meet evolving 
     threats.''.

[[Page H8873]]

       (B) ``To exercise the full set of design skills necessary 
     for an effective nuclear deterrent, the NNSA should develop 
     and conduct the first in what the committee envisions to be a 
     series of design competitions that integrate the full end-to-
     end process from novel design conception through engineering, 
     building, and non-nuclear testing of a prototype.''.
       (2) In March 2016 testimony before the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives regarding a December 
     2016 Defense Science Board report entitled, ``Seven Defense 
     Priorities for the New Administration'', members of that 
     Board said the following:
       (A) ``A key contributor to nuclear deterrence is the 
     continuous, adaptable exercise of the development, design, 
     and production functions for nuclear weapons in both the DOD 
     and DOE.... Yet the DOE laboratories and DOD contractor 
     community have done little integrated design and development 
     work outside of life extension for 25 years, let alone 
     concept development that could serve as a hedge to 
     surprise.''.
       (B) ``The Defense Science Board believes that the triad's 
     complementary features remain robust tenets for the design of 
     a future force. Replacing our current, aging force is 
     essential, but not sufficient in the more complex nuclear 
     environment we now face to provide the adaptability or 
     flexibility to confidently hold at risk what adversaries 
     value. In particular, if the threat evolves in ways that 
     favorably change the cost/benefit calculus in the view of an 
     adversary's leadership, then we should be in a position to 
     quickly restore a credible deterrence posture.''.
       (3) In a memorandum dated May 9, 2014, then-Secretary of 
     Energy Ernie Moniz said the following:
       (A) ``If nuclear military capabilities are to provide 
     deterrence for the nation they need to be relevant to the 
     emerging global strategic environment. The current stockpile 
     was designed to meet the needs of a bipolar world with roots 
     in the Cold War era. A more complex, chaotic, and dynamic 
     security environment is emerging. In order to uphold the 
     Department's mission to ensure an effective nuclear 
     deterrent.... we must ensure our nuclear capabilities meet 
     the challenges of known and potential geopolitical and 
     technological trends. Therefore we must look ahead, using the 
     expertise of our laboratories, to how the capabilities that 
     may be employed by other nations could impact deterrence over 
     the next several decades.''.
       (B) ``We must challenge our thinking about our programs of 
     record in order to permit foresighted actions that may 
     reduce, in the coming decades, the chances for surprise and 
     that buttress deterrence.''.
       (b) Design Competition.--
       (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
     Administrator for Nuclear Security, in coordination with the 
     Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council, shall carry out a 
     new and comprehensive design competition for a nuclear 
     warhead that could be employed on ballistic missiles of the 
     United States by 2030. Such competition shall--
       (A) examine options for warhead design and related delivery 
     system requirements in the 2030s, including--
       (i) life extension of existing weapons;
       (ii) new capabilities; and
       (iii) such other concepts as the Administrator and the 
     Chairman determine necessary to fully exercise and create 
     responsive design capabilities in the enterprise and ensure a 
     robust nuclear deterrent into the 2030s;
       (B) assess how the capabilities and defenses that may be 
     employed by other countries could impact deterrence in 2030 
     and beyond and how such threats could be addressed or 
     mitigated in the warhead and related delivery systems;
       (C) exercise the full set of design skills necessary for an 
     effective nuclear deterrent and responsive enterprise through 
     production of conceptual designs and, as the Administrator 
     determines appropriate, production of non-nuclear prototypes 
     of components or subsystems; and
       (D) examine and recommend actions for significantly 
     shortening timelines and significantly reducing costs 
     associated with design, development, certification, and 
     production of the warhead, without reducing worker or public 
     health and safety.
       (2) Timing.--The Administrator shall--
       (A) during fiscal year 2018, develop a plan to carry out 
     paragraph (1); and
       (B) during fiscal year 2019, implement such plan.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Administrator, in coordination with the Chairman, shall 
     provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on 
     the plan of the Administrator to carry out the warhead design 
     competition under subsection (b). Such briefing shall include 
     an assessment of the costs, benefits, risks, and 
     opportunities of such plan, particularly impacts to ongoing 
     life extension programs and infrastructure projects.

     SEC. 3119. MODIFICATION OF MINOR CONSTRUCTION THRESHOLD FOR 
                   PLANT PROJECTS.

       Section 4701(2) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
     2741(2)) is amended by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$20,000,000''.

     SEC. 3120. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF ADVISORY BOARD ON 
                   TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND WORKER HEALTH.

       Section 3687(i) of the Energy Employees Occupational 
     Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7385s-
     16(i)) is amended by striking ``5 years'' and inserting ``10 
     years''.

     SEC. 3121. USE OF FUNDS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND PROJECT SUPPORT 
                   ACTIVITIES RELATING TO MOX FACILITY.

       (a) In General.--Except as provided by subsection (b), the 
     Secretary of Energy shall carry out construction and project 
     support activities relating to the MOX facility using funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration for the MOX facility.
       (b) Waiver.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary may waive the requirement 
     under subsection (a) to carry out construction and project 
     support activities relating to the MOX facility if the 
     Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees--
       (A) the commitment of the Secretary to remove plutonium 
     intended to be disposed of in the MOX facility from South 
     Carolina and ensure a sustainable future for the Savannah 
     River Site;
       (B) a certification that--
       (i) an alternative option for carrying out the plutonium 
     disposition program for the same amount of plutonium as the 
     amount of plutonium intended to be disposed of in the MOX 
     facility exists, meeting the requirements of the Business 
     Operating Procedure of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration entitled ``Analysis of Alternatives'' and 
     dated March 14, 2016 (BOP-03.07); and
       (ii) the remaining lifecycle cost, determined in a manner 
     comparable to the cost estimating and assessment best 
     practices of the Government Accountability Office, as found 
     in the document of the Government Accountability Office 
     entitled ``GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide'' (GAO-
     09-3SP), for the alternative option would be less than 
     approximately half of the estimated remaining lifecycle cost 
     of the mixed-oxide fuel program; and
       (C) the details of any statutory or regulatory changes 
     necessary to complete the alternative option.
       (2) Estimates.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
     estimates used by the Secretary for purposes of the 
     certification under paragraph (1)(B) are of comparable 
     accuracy.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) MOX facility.--The term ``MOX facility'' means the 
     mixed-oxide fuel fabrication facility at the Savannah River 
     Site, Aiken, South Carolina.
       (2) Project support activities.--The term ``project support 
     activities'' means activities that support the design, long-
     lead equipment procurement, and site preparation of the MOX 
     facility.

     SEC. 3122. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PROGRAMS 
                   IN RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for atomic energy defense activities may be 
     obligated or expended to enter into a contract with, or 
     otherwise provide assistance to, the Russian Federation.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Energy, without delegation, 
     may waive the prohibition in subsection (a) only if--
       (1) the Secretary determines, in writing, that a nuclear-
     related threat arising in the Russian Federation must be 
     addressed urgently and it is necessary to waive the 
     prohibition to address that threat;
       (2) the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense 
     concur in the determination under paragraph (1);
       (3) the Secretary of Energy submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report containing--
       (A) a notification that the waiver is in the national 
     security interest of the United States;
       (B) justification for the waiver, including the 
     determination under paragraph (1); and
       (C) a description of the activities to be carried out 
     pursuant to the waiver, including the expected cost and 
     timeframe for such activities; and
       (4) a period of seven days elapses following the date on 
     which the Secretary submits the report under paragraph (3).
       (c) Exception.--The prohibition under subsection (a) and 
     the requirements under subsection (b) to waive that 
     prohibition shall not apply to an amount, not to exceed 
     $3,000,000, that the Secretary may make available for the 
     Department of Energy Russian Health Studies Program.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the following:
       (1) The congressional defense committees.
       (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

     SEC. 3131. ANNUAL SELECTED ACQUISITION REPORTS ON CERTAIN 
                   HARDWARE RELATING TO DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
                   NONPROLIFERATION.

       (a) In General.--Title XLIII of the Atomic Energy Defense 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 2563 et seq.), as amended by section 3114, is 
     further amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``SEC. 4311. ANNUAL SELECTED ACQUISITION REPORTS ON CERTAIN 
                   HARDWARE RELATING TO DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
                   NONPROLIFERATION.

       ``(a) Annual Selected Acquisition Reports.--
       ``(1) In general.--At the end of each fiscal year, the 
     Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report on each covered hardware project. The 
     reports shall be known as Selected Acquisition Reports for 
     the covered hardware project concerned.
       ``(2) Matters included.--The information contained in the 
     Selected Acquisition Report for a fiscal year for a covered 
     hardware project shall be the information contained in the 
     Selected Acquisition Report for such fiscal year for a major 
     defense acquisition program under section 2432 of title 10, 
     United States Code, expressed in terms of the covered 
     hardware project.
       ``(b) Covered Hardware Project Defined.--In this section, 
     the term `covered hardware project' means a project carried 
     out under the defense nuclear nonproliferation research and 
     development program that--

[[Page H8874]]

       ``(1) is focused on the production and deployment of 
     hardware, including with respect to the development and 
     deployment of satellites or satellite payloads; and
       ``(2) exceeds $500,000,000 in total program cost over the 
     course of five years.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 4310, as added by section 3114, the 
     following new item:

``Sec. 4311. Annual Selected Acquisition Reports on certain hardware 
              relating to defense nuclear nonproliferation.''.

     SEC. 3132. ANNUAL REPORTS ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES OF NATIONAL 
                   NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLVII of the Atomic 
     Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2741 et seq.), as amended by 
     section 3111(d), is further amended by adding at the end the 
     following new section:

     ``SEC. 4716. UNFUNDED PRIORITIES OF THE NATIONAL NUCLEAR 
                   SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

       ``(a) Annual Report.--Not later than 10 days after the date 
     on which the budget of the President for a fiscal year is 
     submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 
     31, United States Code, the Administrator shall submit to the 
     Secretary of Energy and the congressional defense committees 
     a report on the unfunded priorities of the Administration.
       ``(b) Elements.--
       ``(1) In general.--Each report required by subsection (a) 
     shall specify, for each unfunded priority covered by the 
     report, the following:
       ``(A) A summary description of that priority, including the 
     objectives to be achieved if that priority is funded (whether 
     in whole or in part).
       ``(B) The additional amount of funds recommended in 
     connection with the objectives under subparagraph (A).
       ``(C) Account information with respect to that priority.
       ``(2) Prioritization of priorities.--Each report required 
     by subsection (a) shall present the unfunded priorities 
     covered by the report in order of urgency of priority.
       ``(c) Unfunded Priority Defined.--In this section, the term 
     `unfunded priority', in the case of a fiscal year, means a 
     program, activity, or mission requirement that--
       ``(1) is not funded in the budget of the President for that 
     fiscal year as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 
     1105(a) of title 31, United States Code;
       ``(2) is necessary to fulfill a requirement associated with 
     the mission of the Administration; and
       ``(3) would have been recommended for funding through the 
     budget referred to in paragraph (1) by the Administrator--
       ``(A) if additional resources were available for the budget 
     to fund the program, activity, or mission requirement; or
       ``(B) in the case of a program, activity, or mission 
     requirement that emerged after the budget was formulated, if 
     the program, activity, or mission requirement had emerged 
     before the budget was formulated.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 4715, as added by section 3111(d), 
     the following new item:

``Sec. 4716. Unfunded priorities of the National Nuclear Security 
              Administration.''.

     SEC. 3133. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) Status of Nuclear Materials Protection, Control, and 
     Accounting Program.--
       (1) Repeal.--Section 4303 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 2563) is repealed.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 4303.
       (b) Status of Security of Atomic Energy Defense 
     Facilities.--Section 4506 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 2657) is amended by striking ``of each year'' each 
     place it appears and inserting ``of each even-numbered 
     year''.
       (c) Security Risks Posed to Nuclear Weapons Complex.--
       (1) Included in stockpile stewardship and management 
     plan.--Section 4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
     U.S.C. 2523) is amended--
       (A) in subsection (c)--
       (i) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs 
     (7) and (8), respectively; and
       (ii) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(6) A summary of the plan regarding the research and 
     development, deployment, and lifecycle sustainment of 
     technologies described in subsection (d)(7).''; and
       (B) in subsection (d)--
       (i) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
       (ii) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
     paragraph (7):
       ``(7) A plan for the research and development, deployment, 
     and lifecycle sustainment of the technologies employed within 
     the nuclear security enterprise to address physical and cyber 
     security threats during the five fiscal years following the 
     date of the report, together with--
       ``(A) for each site in the nuclear security enterprise, a 
     description of the technologies deployed to address the 
     physical and cybersecurity threats posed to that site;
       ``(B) for each site and for the nuclear security 
     enterprise, the methods used by the Administration to 
     establish priorities among investments in physical and 
     cybersecurity technologies; and
       ``(C) a detailed description of how the funds identified 
     for each program element specified pursuant to paragraph (1) 
     in the budget for the Administration for each fiscal year 
     during that five-fiscal-year period will help carry out that 
     plan.''.
       (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 3253(b) of the National 
     Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2453) is 
     amended by striking paragraph (5).
       (d) Modification of Submission of Selected Acquisition 
     Reports.--Section 4217(a) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 2537(a)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by striking ``each fiscal-year quarter'' and inserting 
     ``the first quarter of each fiscal year'';
       (B) by striking ``or a major'' and inserting ``and each 
     major''; and
       (C) by inserting ``during the preceding fiscal year'' after 
     ``4713(a)(2))''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``a fiscal-year quarter'' and inserting ``a 
     fiscal year''; and
       (B) by striking ``such fiscal-year quarter'' and inserting 
     ``each fiscal-year quarter in that fiscal year''.
       (e) Long-term Plan for Meeting National Security 
     Requirements for Unencumbered Uranium.--Section 4221(a) of 
     the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538c(a)) is amended 
     by striking ``Concurrent with'' and all that follows through 
     ``2026'' and inserting ``Not later than December 31 of each 
     even-numbered year through 2026''.
       (f) Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation Management Plan.--
       (1) Modification of submission.--Section 4309 of the Atomic 
     Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2575) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (c);
       (B) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
       (C) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following 
     new subsections:
       ``(a) Plan Required.--The Administrator shall develop and 
     annually update a five-year management plan for activities 
     associated with the defense nuclear nonproliferation programs 
     of the Administration to prevent and counter the 
     proliferation of materials, technology, equipment, and 
     expertise related to nuclear and radiological weapons in 
     order to minimize and address the risk of nuclear terrorism 
     and the proliferation of such weapons.
       ``(b) Submission to Congress.--(1) Not later than March 15 
     of each even-numbered year, the Administrator shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees a summary of the plan 
     developed under subsection (a).
       ``(2) Not later than March 15 of each odd-numbered year, 
     the Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a detailed report on the plan developed under 
     subsection (a).
       ``(3) Each summary submitted under paragraph (1) and each 
     report submitted under paragraph (2) shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may include a classified annex if 
     necessary.''.
       (2) Elimination of identification of future international 
     contributions.--Subsection (c) of such section, as 
     redesignated by paragraph (1)(B), is further amended--
       (A) by striking paragraph (14); and
       (B) by redesignating paragraphs (15) and (16) as paragraphs 
     (14) and (15), respectively.
       (3) Conforming amendments.--Subsection (c) of such section, 
     as redesignated by paragraph (1)(B) and amended by paragraph 
     (2), is further amended--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the plan required by 
     subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the summary required by 
     paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by 
     paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be'';
       (B) in paragraph (6), by striking ``the plan required by 
     subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the summary required by 
     paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by 
     paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be'';
       (C) in paragraph (7), by striking ``the plan required by 
     subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the summary required by 
     paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by 
     paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be,'';
       (D) in paragraph (9), by striking ``the plan required by 
     subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the summary required by 
     paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by 
     paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be,''; and
       (E) in paragraph (10), by striking ``the plan required by 
     subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the summary required by 
     paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or the report required by 
     paragraph (2) of that subsection, as the case may be,''.

     SEC. 3134. MODIFICATION TO STOCKPILE STEWARDSHIP, MANAGEMENT, 
                   AND RESPONSIVENESS PLAN.

       Section 4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
     2523), as amended by section 3133(c), is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)--
       (A) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs 
     (8) and (9), respectively; and
       (B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
     paragraph (7):
       ``(7) A summary of the assessment under subsection (d)(8) 
     regarding the execution of programs with current and 
     projected budgets and any associated risks.''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9); and
       (B) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following new 
     paragraph (8):
       ``(8) An assessment of whether the programs described by 
     the report can be executed with current and projected budgets 
     and any associated risks.''.

     SEC. 3135. ASSESSMENT AND DEVELOPMENT OF PROTOTYPE NUCLEAR 
                   WEAPONS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

       (a) Stockpile Stewardship, Management, and Responsiveness 
     Plan.--Section 4203(d)(1)

[[Page H8875]]

     of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2523(d)(1)) is 
     amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (M), by striking ``; and'' and 
     inserting a semicolon;
       (2) in subparagraph (N), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(O) as required, when assessing and developing prototype 
     nuclear weapons of foreign countries, a report from the 
     directors of the national security laboratories on the need 
     and plan for such assessment and development that includes 
     separate comments on the plan from the Secretary of Energy 
     and the Director of National Intelligence.''.
       (b) Stockpile Responsiveness Program.--Section 4220(c) of 
     the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538b(c)) is amended 
     by adding at the end the following:
       ``(6) The retention of the ability, in consultation with 
     the Director of National Intelligence, to assess and develop 
     prototype nuclear weapons of foreign countries and, if 
     necessary, to conduct no-yield testing of those 
     prototypes.''.
       (c) Conforming Repeal.--
       (1) In general.--Section 4509 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 2660) is repealed.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking the items 
     relating to sections 4508 and 4509.

     SEC. 3136. PLAN FOR VERIFICATION, DETECTION, AND MONITORING 
                   OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND FISSILE MATERIAL.

       (a) Findings and Sense of Congress.--
       (1) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (A) A January 2014 Defense Science Board report found that 
     ``The nuclear future will not be a linear extrapolation of 
     the past... [and] [t]he technologies and processes designed 
     for current treaty verification and inspections are 
     inadequate to future monitoring realities.''.
       (B) Section 3133 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (Public Law 113-291; 127 Stat. 3896) required an 
     interagency plan for monitoring of nuclear weapons and 
     fissile material, and section 3132 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2768) required an update of such plan. In both 
     instances, the reports submitted failed to answer the 
     congressional requirements, and instead provided only a brief 
     summary of the National Security Council structure and 
     processes.
       (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     verification, detection, and monitoring of nuclear weapons 
     and fissile material should be a priority for national 
     security, and that the reports submitted to date do not 
     reflect this priority, or the current and planned initiatives 
     related to nuclear verification and detection.
       (b) Plan.--The President, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
     of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, shall develop a plan for 
     verification and monitoring relating to the potential 
     proliferation of nuclear weapons, components of such weapons, 
     and fissile material.
       (c) Elements.--The plan developed under subsection (b) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) A plan and road map for verification, detection, and 
     monitoring, with respect to policy, operations, and research, 
     development, testing, and evaluation, including--
       (A) identifying requirements for such verification, 
     detection, and monitoring;
       (B) costs and funding requirements over 10 years for such 
     verification, detection, and monitoring; and
       (C) identifying and integrating roles, responsibilities, 
     and planning for such verification, detection, and 
     monitoring.
       (2) A detailed international engagement plan for building 
     cooperation and transparency, including bilateral and 
     multilateral efforts, to improve inspections, detection, and 
     monitoring.
       (3) A detailed description of--
       (A) current and planned research and development efforts to 
     improve monitoring, detection, and in-field inspection and 
     analysis capabilities, including persistent surveillance, 
     remote monitoring, and rapid analysis of large data sets, 
     including open-source data; and
       (B) measures to coordinate technical and operational 
     requirements early in the process.
       (4) Engagement of relevant departments and agencies of the 
     Federal Government and the military departments (including 
     the Open Source Center and the United States Atomic Energy 
     Detection System), national laboratories, industry, and 
     academia.
       (d) Designation of DOE.--The President shall designate the 
     Department of Energy as the lead agency for development of 
     the plan under subsection (b).
       (e) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy, acting 
     through the Administrator for Nuclear Security, shall provide 
     to the appropriate congressional committees an interim 
     briefing on the plan under subsection (b).
       (f) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for the Department of Defense for supporting the Executive 
     Office of the President, $10,000,000 may not be obligated or 
     expended until the date on which the President submits to the 
     appropriate congressional committees the plan under 
     subsection (g)(1).
       (g) Submission.--
       (1) Deadline.--Not later than April 15, 2018, the President 
     shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the 
     plan developed under subsection (b).
       (2) Form.--The plan under subsection (b) shall be submitted 
     in unclassified form, but, consistent with the protection of 
     intelligence sources and methods, may include a classified 
     annex.
       (h) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the following:
       (1) The congressional defense committees.
       (2) The Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (3) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (4) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security 
     of the House of Representatives.
       (5) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
     House of Representatives.

     SEC. 3137. REVIEW OF UNITED STATES NUCLEAR AND RADIOLOGICAL 
                   TERRORISM PREVENTION STRATEGY.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy, acting through 
     the Administrator for Nuclear Security, shall enter into an 
     arrangement with the private scientific advisory group known 
     as JASON to assess and recommend improvements to the 
     strategies of the United States for preventing, countering, 
     and responding to nuclear and radiological terrorism, 
     specifically terrorism involving the use of nuclear weapons, 
     improvised nuclear devices, or radiological dispersal or 
     exposure devices, or the sabotage of nuclear facilities.
       (b) Review.--The assessment conducted under subsection (a) 
     shall address the adequacy of the strategies of the United 
     States described in that subsection and identify technical, 
     policy, and resource gaps with respect to--
       (1) identifying national and international nuclear and 
     radiological terrorism risks and critical emerging threats;
       (2) preventing state-sponsored actors and non-state actors 
     from acquiring the technologies, materials, and critical 
     expertise needed to mount nuclear or radiological attacks, 
     including dual-use technologies, materials, and expertise;
       (3) countering efforts by state-sponsored actors and non-
     state actors to mount such attacks;
       (4) responding to nuclear and radiological terrorism 
     incidents to attribute their origin and help manage their 
     consequences; and
       (5) other important matters identified by JASON that are 
     directly relevant to those strategies.
       (c) Recommendations.--The assessment conducted under 
     subsection (a) shall include recommendations to the Secretary 
     of Energy, Congress, and such other Federal entities as JASON 
     considers appropriate, for preventing, countering, and 
     responding to nuclear and radiological terrorism, including 
     recommendations for--
       (1) closing technical, policy, or resource gaps;
       (2) improving cooperation and appropriate integration among 
     Federal entities and Federal, State, and tribal governments;
       (3) improving cooperation between the United States and 
     other countries and international organizations; and
       (4) other important matters identified by JASON that are 
     directly relevant to the strategies of the United States 
     described in subsection (a).
       (d) Liaisons.--The Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of 
     State, and the Director of National Intelligence shall 
     appoint appropriate liaisons to JASON with respect to 
     supporting the timely conduct of the assessment required by 
     subsection (a).
       (e) Materials.--The Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of 
     State, and the Director of National Intelligence shall 
     provide access to JASON to materials relevant to the 
     assessment required by subsection (a), consistent with the 
     protection of sources and methods and other critically 
     sensitive information.
       (f) Clearances.--The Secretary of Energy and the Director 
     of National Intelligence shall ensure that appropriate 
     members and staff of JASON have the necessary clearances, 
     obtained in an expedited manner, to conduct the assessment 
     required by subsection (a).

     SEC. 3138. ASSESSMENT OF MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS 
                   OF NATIONAL SECURITY LABORATORIES.

       (a) Assessment.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear 
     Security shall seek to enter into a contract with a federally 
     funded research and development center to conduct an 
     assessment of the benefits, costs, challenges, risks, 
     efficiency, and effectiveness of the strategy of the 
     Administrator with respect to management and operating 
     contracts for national security laboratories. The 
     Administrator may not award such contract to a federally 
     funded research and development center for which the 
     Department of Energy or the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration is the primary sponsor.
       (b) Cooperation.--The Administrator, and the director of 
     each national security laboratory, shall provide to the 
     federally funded research and development center conducting 
     the assessment under subsection (a) the information the 
     center requires to conduct such assessment.
       (c) Submission.--
       (1) NNSA.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
     the Administrator and a federally funded research and 
     development center enter into the contract under subsection 
     (a), the center shall submit to the Administrator a report on 
     the assessment conducted under such subsection. Such report 
     shall include the following:
       (A) An assessment of the acquisition strategy and the 
     contract oversight process of the Administrator, and of the 
     use of for-profit management and operating contractors at 
     national security laboratories, and whether such strategy,

[[Page H8876]]

     process, and contractors provide the best outcomes to the 
     Federal Government with respect to performance, cost, 
     efficiency, and effectiveness.
       (B) An assessment of the total costs, for each national 
     security laboratory, that are incurred because of using a 
     for-profit model for the management and operating contract 
     that would not be incurred under a nonprofit model, and 
     whether performance, costs, efficiency, and effectiveness 
     would be expected to increase or decrease under a nonprofit 
     model.
       (C) An assessment of whether the Administrator is 
     appropriately using, managing, and overseeing the national 
     security laboratories with respect to the nature of the 
     laboratories as federally funded research and development 
     centers.
       (2) Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
     which the Administrator receives the report under paragraph 
     (1), the Administrator shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees such report, without change, together with 
     any comments the Administrator determines appropriate.
       (3) Limitation.--
       (A) Award or extension of contract.--None of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration may be obligated or expended to issue 
     a final award, or issue a decision to extend, a management 
     and operating contract for a national security laboratory 
     until the date on which the Administrator submits to the 
     congressional defense committees the report under paragraph 
     (2).
       (B) Waiver for extension.--The Secretary of Energy may 
     waive the limitation in subparagraph (A) with respect to the 
     extension of a management and operating contract for a 
     national security laboratory if the Secretary--
       (i) determines such waiver is required in the interest of 
     national security; and
       (ii) notifies the Committees on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate of such determination.
       (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     nothing in this section should be construed to mandate or 
     encourage an extension of an existing management and 
     operating contract for a national security laboratory.
       (e) National Security Laboratory Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``national security laboratory'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 4002(7) of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501(7)).

     SEC. 3139. EVALUATION OF CLASSIFICATION OF CERTAIN DEFENSE 
                   NUCLEAR WASTE.

       (a) Evaluation.--The Secretary of Energy shall conduct an 
     evaluation of the feasibility, costs, and cost savings of 
     classifying covered defense nuclear waste as other than high-
     level radioactive waste, without decreasing environmental, 
     health, or public safety requirements.
       (b) Matters Included.--In conducting the evaluation under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider--
       (1) the estimated quantities and locations of covered 
     defense nuclear waste;
       (2) the potential disposal paths for such waste;
       (3) the estimated disposal timeline for such waste;
       (4) the estimated costs for disposal of such waste, and 
     potential cost savings;
       (5) the potential effect on existing consent orders, 
     permits, and agreements;
       (6) the basis by which the Secretary would make a decision 
     on reclassification of such waste; and
       (7) any such other matters relating to defense nuclear 
     waste or other reprocessing waste that the Secretary 
     determines appropriate.
       (c) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     report on the evaluation under subsection (a), including a 
     description of--
       (1) the consideration by the Secretary of the matters under 
     subsection (b);
       (2) any actions the Secretary has taken or plans to take to 
     change the processes, rules, regulations, orders, or 
     directives, relating to defense nuclear waste, as 
     appropriate;
       (3) any recommendations for legislative action the 
     Secretary determines appropriate; and
       (4) the assessment of the Secretary regarding the benefits 
     and risks of the actions and recommendations of the Secretary 
     under paragraphs (1) and (2).
       (d) Differentiation of Waste.--In conducting the evaluation 
     under subsection (a) and preparing the report required by 
     subsection (c), the Secretary shall distinguish between 
     covered nuclear waste described in subparagraph (A) of 
     subsection (e)(2) and covered nuclear waste described in 
     subparagraph (B) of that subsection.
       (e) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
       (A) The congressional defense committees.
       (B) The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (C) The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
     Senate.
       (2) Covered defense nuclear waste.--The term ``covered 
     defense nuclear waste'' means radioactive waste that resulted 
     from the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel that was 
     generated from atomic energy defense activities and that--
       (A) contains more than 100 nCi/g of alpha-emitting 
     transuranic isotopes with half-lives greater than 20 years; 
     or
       (B) may be classified, managed, treated, and disposed of, 
     regardless of origin or previous classification, as other 
     than high-level radioactive waste.

     SEC. 3140. IMPROVED REPORTING FOR ANTI-SMUGGLING RADIATION 
                   DETECTION SYSTEMS.

       (a) Annual Report.--Together with the submission to 
     Congress of the budget of the President under section 1105(a) 
     of title 31, United States Code, for each of fiscal years 
     2019 through 2021, the Administrator for Nuclear Security 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     regarding any anti-smuggling radiation detection systems that 
     the Administrator proposes to deploy during the fiscal year 
     covered by the budget.
       (b) Matters Included.--Each report under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) The probability of detection for the anti-smuggling 
     radiation detection systems covered by the report against 
     realistic potential smuggling threats, including shielded and 
     unshielded uranium, plutonium, and other special nuclear 
     material.
       (2) The costs associated with the deployments of such 
     systems, including costs to the United States and costs to 
     any host country.
       (3) Options for technological advances that would make 
     radiation detection less expensive or more effective.
       (4) The benefits to the national security of the United 
     States resulting from the deployments of such systems.

     SEC. 3141. PLUTONIUM CAPABILITIES.

       (a) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the 
     Secretary of Defense a report on the recommended alternative 
     endorsed by the Administrator for recapitalization of 
     plutonium science and production capabilities of the nuclear 
     security enterprise. The report shall identify the 
     recommended alternative endorsed by the Administrator and 
     contain the analysis of alternatives, including costs, upon 
     which the Administrator relied in making such endorsement.
       (b) Certification.--Not later than 60 days after the date 
     on which the Secretary of Defense receives the report 
     required by subsection (a), the Chairman of the Nuclear 
     Weapons Council shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees the written certification of the Chairman 
     regarding whether--
       (1) the recommended alternative described in subsection 
     (a)--
       (A) is acceptable to the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Nuclear Weapons Council and meets the requirements of the 
     Secretary for plutonium pit production capacity and 
     capability;
       (B) is likely to meet the pit production timelines and 
     milestones required by section 4219 of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538a);
       (C) is likely to meet pit production timelines and 
     requirements responsive to military requirements;
       (D) is cost effective and has reasonable near-term and 
     lifecycle costs that are minimized, to the extent 
     practicable, as compared to other alternatives;
       (E) contains minimized and manageable risks as compared to 
     other alternatives; and
       (F) can be acceptably reconciled with any differences in 
     the conclusions made by the Office of Cost Assessment and 
     Program Evaluation of the Department of Defense in the 
     business case analysis of plutonium pit production capability 
     issued in 2013; and
       (2) the Administrator has--
       (A) documented the assumptions and constraints used in the 
     analysis of alternatives described in subsection (a); and
       (B) tested and documented the sensitivity of the cost 
     estimates for each alternative to risks and changes in key 
     assumptions.
       (c) Assessment.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Director for Cost Estimating 
     and Program Evaluation of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration shall provide to the congressional defense 
     committees a briefing containing the assessment of the 
     Director of the analysis of alternatives described in 
     subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include--
       (A) descriptions of the scope, risks, and costs for 
     alternatives not considered in the analysis of alternatives 
     that the Director deems viable; and
       (B) any views of the Administrator regarding such 
     alternatives.
       (d) Effect of Failure to Identify Recommended 
     Alternative.--The Administrator shall carry out the modular 
     building strategy (as defined in section 3114(c)(3) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (50 
     U.S.C. 2535 note)) at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los 
     Alamos, New Mexico, if, by the date that is 150 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act--
       (1) the Administrator has not identified, in the report 
     required by subsection (a), the recommended alternative 
     proposed by the Administrator for recapitalization of 
     plutonium science and production capabilities of the nuclear 
     security enterprise; or
       (2) the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council has not 
     certified under subsection (b) that the recommended 
     alternative proposed by the Administrator meets the criteria 
     described in subparagraphs (A) through (F) of paragraph (1) 
     of that subsection.
       (e) Nuclear Security Enterprise Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``nuclear security enterprise'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 2501).

     SEC. 3142. REPORT ON CRITICAL DECISION 1 ON MATERIAL STAGING 
                   FACILITY PROJECT.

       Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report containing 
     the following:
       (1) The decision memorandum of the Administrator with 
     respect to critical decision 1 in the

[[Page H8877]]

     acquisition process for the Material Staging Facility project 
     at the Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas.
       (2) The preferred alternative approved by the Administrator 
     for such critical decision 1.
       (3) The cost-range estimates for such critical decision 1, 
     including a description of the costs saved or avoided from 
     not carrying out recapitalization and sustainment of Area 4 
     at the Pantex Plant.
       (4) The schedule-range estimates for such critical decision 
     1 that include completion of the Material Staging Facility by 
     2024.
       (5) The risk factors and risk mitigation and management 
     options relating to the Material Staging Facility.
       (6) The expected improvements to operations and security 
     provided by the Material Staging Facility, once operational, 
     including the potential annual cost savings.
       (7) Such other matters as the Administrator considers 
     appropriate.

     SEC. 3143. PLAN TO FURTHER MINIMIZE THE USE OF HIGHLY 
                   ENRICHED URANIUM FOR MEDICAL ISOTOPES.

       (a) Plan.--The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with 
     the Secretary of State, shall develop and assess a plan, 
     including with respect to the benefits, risks, costs, and 
     opportunities of the plan, to--
       (1) take additional actions to promote the wider 
     utilization of molybdenum-99 and technetium-99m produced 
     without the use of highly enriched uranium targets, such as, 
     at a minimum, by--
       (A) eliminating the availability of highly enriched uranium 
     for molybdenum-99 by buying back United States-origin highly 
     enriched uranium in raw or target form from global 
     molybdenum-99 suppliers; and
       (B) restricting or placing financial penalties on the 
     import of molybdenum-99 produced with highly enriched uranium 
     targets;
       (2) work with global molybdenum suppliers and regulators to 
     reduce the proliferation hazard from reprocessing waste from 
     medical isotope production containing United States-origin 
     highly enriched uranium; and
       (3) ensure an adequate supply of molybdenum-99 and 
     technetium-99 at all times, and both assess and mitigate any 
     risks to such supply during a transition to production 
     without the use of highly enriched uranium.
       (b) Submission.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Energy shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report containing the plan and 
     assessment under subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
       (C) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

     SEC. 3151. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING COMPENSATION OF 
                   INDIVIDUALS RELATING TO URANIUM MINING AND 
                   NUCLEAR TESTING.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 
     note) was enacted in 1990 to provide monetary compensation to 
     individuals who contracted certain cancers and other serious 
     diseases following their exposure to radiation released 
     during atmospheric nuclear weapons testing during the Cold 
     War or following exposure to radiation as a result of 
     employment in the uranium industry during the Cold War.
       (2) The Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation 
     Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7384 et seq.) formally 
     acknowledged the dangers to which some employees of sites of 
     the Department of Energy and its vendors during the Cold War 
     were exposed. That Act also acknowledged that, although 
     establishing the link between occupational hazards and 
     specific diseases can be difficult, scientific evidence 
     exists to support the conclusion that some activities related 
     to Cold War nuclear weapons production have resulted in 
     increased risk of illness and death to workers. That Act 
     established a formal process for the submission of claims for 
     medical expenses and lump sum compensation for former 
     employees and contractors and survivors of those former 
     employees and contractors.
       (3) As of the date of the enactment of this Act, more than 
     145,775 claims have been paid out under the Radiation 
     Exposure Compensation Act and the Energy Employees 
     Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000, for a 
     total of at least $16,400,000,000 in lump sum compensation 
     and medical expenses.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the United States Government should appropriately compensate 
     and recognize the employees, contractors, and other 
     individuals described in subsection (a).

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.

     SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.

       (a) Authorization.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
     for fiscal year 2018, $30,600,000 for the operation of the 
     Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board under chapter 21 of 
     the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 et seq.).
       (b) Certification.--Not later than 10 days after the date 
     on which the budget of the President for fiscal year 2019 or 
     any fiscal year thereafter is submitted to Congress pursuant 
     to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the 
     Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a letter certifying that the 
     requested budget is sufficient to carry out the mission of 
     the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board during the fiscal 
     year covered by the budget request.

                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.

     SEC. 3401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       (a) Amount.--There are hereby authorized to be appropriated 
     to the Secretary of Energy $4,900,000 for fiscal year 2018 
     for the purpose of carrying out activities under chapter 641 
     of title 10, United States Code, relating to the naval 
     petroleum reserves.
       (b) Period of Availability.--Funds appropriated pursuant to 
     the authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall 
     remain available until expended.

                      TITLE XXXV--MARITIME MATTERS

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946.
Sec. 3503. Maritime Security Fleet Program; restriction on operation 
              for new entrants.
Sec. 3504. Codification of sections relating to acquisition, charter, 
              and requisition of vessels.
Sec. 3505. Assistance for small shipyards.
Sec. 3506. Report on sexual assault victim recovery in the Coast Guard.
Sec. 3507. Centers of excellence.
Sec. 3508. Foreign spill protection.
Sec. 3509. Removal of adjunct professor limit at United States Merchant 
              Marine Academy.
Sec. 3510. Acceptance of guarantees in conjunction with partial 
              donations for major projects of the United States 
              Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3511. Authority to pay conveyance or transfer expenses in 
              connection with acceptance of a gift to the United States 
              Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3512. Authority to participate in Federal, State or other research 
              grants.
Sec. 3513. Provision of satellite communication devices during Sea Year 
              program.
Sec. 3514. Actions to address sexual harassment, dating violence, 
              domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking at the 
              United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3515. Sexual assault prevention and response staff for the United 
              States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3516. Protection of cadets at the United States Merchant Marine 
              Academy from sexual assault onboard commercial vessels.
Sec. 3517. Training requirement for sexual assault investigators.

     SEC. 3501. AUTHORIZATION OF THE MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
     the Department of Transportation for fiscal year 2018, to be 
     available without fiscal year limitation if so provided in 
     appropriations Acts, for programs associated with maintaining 
     the United States merchant marine, the following amounts:
       (1) For expenses necessary for operations of the United 
     States Merchant Marine Academy, $87,000,000, of which--
       (A) $69,000,000 shall be for Academy operations including--
       (i) the implementation of section 3514(b) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, as added by 
     section 3513; and
       (ii) staffing, training, and other actions necessary to 
     prevent and respond to sexual harassment and sexual assault; 
     and
       (B) $18,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     capital asset management at the Academy.
       (2) For expenses necessary to support the State maritime 
     academies, $29,550,000, of which--
       (A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2019, for the Student Incentive Program;
       (B) $3,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     direct payments to such academies;
       (C) $22,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     maintenance and repair of State maritime academy training 
     vessels;
       (D) $1,800,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     training ship fuel assistance; and
       (E) $350,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     expenses to improve the monitoring of the service obligations 
     of graduates.
       (3) For expenses necessary to support the National Security 
     Multi-Mission Vessel Program, $50,000,000, which shall remain 
     available until expended.
       (4) For expenses necessary to support Maritime 
     Administration operations and programs, $60,020,000.
       (5) For expenses necessary to dispose of vessels in the 
     National Defense Reserve Fleet, $9,000,000, which shall 
     remain available until expended.
       (6) For expenses necessary to maintain and preserve a 
     United States flag merchant marine to serve the national 
     security needs of the United States under chapter 531 of 
     title 46, United States Code, $300,000,000.
       (7) For expenses necessary for the loan guarantee program 
     authorized under chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, 
     $33,000,000, of which--
       (A) $30,000,000 may be used for the cost (as defined in 
     section 502(5) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 
     U.S.C. 661a(5))) of loan guarantees under the program; and
       (B) $3,000,000 may be used for administrative expenses 
     relating to loan guarantee commitments under the program.

[[Page H8878]]

       (b) Assistance for Small Shipyards and Maritime 
     Communities.--Section 54101(i) of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``2015'' and all that follows 
     before the period and inserting ``2018, 2019, and 2020 to 
     carry out this section $35,000,000''.

     SEC. 3502. MERCHANT SHIP SALES ACT OF 1946.

       (a) Amendments.--The Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 
     U.S.C. 4401 et seq.) is amended by--
       (1) repealing the first section and sections 2, 3, 5, 12, 
     and 14;
       (2) in section 8, redesignating subsection (d) as section 
     56308 of title 46, United States Code, and transferring it to 
     appear after section 56307 of such title; and
       (3) redesignating section 11 as section 57100 of title 46, 
     United States Code, and transferring it to appear before 
     section 57101 of such title.
       (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section 2218 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales 
     Act of 1946 (50 U.S.C. App. 1744)'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``section 57100 of title 46''.
       (2) Section 3134 of title 40, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking ``31,'' and inserting ``31 or''; and
       (B) by striking ``or the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 
     (50 App. U.S.C. 1735 et seq.),''.
       (3) Section 3703a(b)(6) of title 46, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales 
     Act of 1946 (50 App. U.S.C. 1744)'' and inserting ``section 
     57100''.
       (4) Section 52101(c)(1)(A)(i) of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``section 11 of the Merchant 
     Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 App. U.S.C. 1744)'' and inserting 
     ``section 57100''.
       (5) Section 56308 of title 46, United States Code, as 
     redesignated and transferred by subsection (a)(2) of this 
     section, is amended--
       (A) by striking so much as precedes ``vessel constructed'' 
     and inserting the following:

     ``Sec. 56308. Transfer of substitute vessels

       ``In the case of any'';
       (B) by inserting ``of Transportation'' after ``Secretary''; 
     and
       (C) by striking ``adjustments with respect to the retained 
     vessels as provided for in section 9, and''.
       (6) Section 57100 of title 46, United States Code, as 
     redesignated and transferred by subsection (a)(3) of this 
     section, is amended--
       (A) by striking so much as precedes the text of subsection 
     (a) and inserting the following:

     ``Sec. 57100. National Defense Reserve Fleet

       ``(a) Fleet Components.--'';
       (B) in subsection (b), by inserting before the first 
     sentence the following: ``Permitted Uses.--''; and
       (C) in subsection (e)--
       (i) by inserting before the first sentence the following: 
     ``Exemption From Tank Vessel Construction Standards.--''; and
       (ii) by striking ``of title 46, United States Code''.
       (7) Section 57101 of title 46, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``maintained under section 11 of the 
     Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 App. 1744)''.
       (8) The analysis for chapter 563 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
     section 56307 the following:

``56308. Transfer of substitute vessels.''.
       (9) The analysis for chapter 571 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting before the item relating to 
     section 57101 the following:

``57100. National Defense Reserve Fleet.''.

     SEC. 3503. MARITIME SECURITY FLEET PROGRAM; RESTRICTION ON 
                   OPERATION FOR NEW ENTRANTS.

       (a) Restriction.--Section 53105(a) of title 46, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``, except as 
     provided in paragraph (2),'' after ``in the foreign commerce 
     or'';
       (2) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``and'' after the 
     semicolon at the end;
       (3) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
       (4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
       ``(2) in the case of a vessel, other than a replacement 
     vessel under subsection (f), first covered by an operating 
     agreement after the date of the enactment of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, the vessel 
     shall not be operated in the transportation of cargo between 
     points in the United States and its territories either 
     directly or via a foreign port; and''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 53106 of title 46, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``section 53105(a)(1)'' 
     and inserting ``paragraph (1) and (2) of section 53105(a), as 
     otherwise applicable with respect to such vessel,''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``section 
     53105(a)(1)'' and inserting ``paragraph (1) and (2) of 
     section 53105(a), as otherwise applicable with respect to 
     such vessel''.

     SEC. 3504. CODIFICATION OF SECTIONS RELATING TO ACQUISITION, 
                   CHARTER, AND REQUISITION OF VESSELS.

       (a) Emergency Foreign Vessel Acquisition; Purchase or 
     Requisition of Vessels Lying Idle in United States Waters.--
     The first section of the Act of August 9, 1954 (ch. 659; 50 
     U.S.C. 196)--
       (1) is redesignated as section 56309 of title 46, United 
     States Code, and transferred to appear at the end of chapter 
     563 of such title, as otherwise amended by this title; and
       (2) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``That during'' and inserting the 
     following:

     ``Sec. 56309. Emergency foreign vessel acquisition; purchase 
       or requisition of vessels lying idle in United States 
       waters

       ``During'';
       (B) by striking ``section 902 of the Merchant Marine Act, 
     1936, as amended'' each place it appears and inserting ``this 
     chapter''; and
       (C) by striking ``the second paragraph of subsection (d) of 
     such section 902, as amended'' and inserting ``section 
     56305''.
       (b) Voluntary Purchase or Charter Agreements.--Section 2 of 
     such Act (50 U.S.C. 197)--
       (1) is redesignated as section 56310 of title 46, United 
     States Code, and transferred to appear after section 56309 of 
     such title (as amended by subsection (a)); and
       (2) is amended--
       (A) by striking so much as proceeds ``During'' and 
     inserting the following:

     ``Sec. 56310. Voluntary purchase or charter agreements''; and

       (B) by striking ``section 902 of the Merchant Marine Act, 
     1936,'' and inserting ``this chapter''.
       (c) Requisitioned Vessels.--Section 3 of such Act (50 
     U.S.C. 198)--
       (1) is redesignated as section 56311 of title 46, United 
     States Code, and transferred to appear after section 56310 of 
     such title (as amended by subsections (a) and (b));
       (2) is amended by striking so much as precedes subsection 
     (a) and inserting the following:

     ``Sec. 56311. Requisitioned vessels''; and

       (3) is amended--
       (A) except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), by 
     striking ``this Act'' each place it appears and inserting 
     ``section 56309 or 56310, as applicable'';
       (B) in subsection (c)--
       (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``this Act'' and 
     inserting ``section 56309 or 56310, as applicable,''; and
       (ii) by striking ``The second paragraph of section 9 of the 
     Shipping Act, 1916, as amended,'' and inserting ``Section 
     57109''; and
       (C) in subsection (d)--
       (i) in the first sentence by striking ``provisions of 
     section 3709 of the Revised Statutes'' and inserting 
     ``section 6101 of title 41'';
       (ii) in the second sentence--

       (I) by striking ``this Act'' and inserting ``section 56309 
     or 56310, as applicable,''; and
       (II) by striking ``said section 3709'' and inserting 
     ``section 6101 of title 41'';

       (iii) by striking ``title VII of the Merchant Marine Act, 
     1936'' and inserting ``chapter 575''; and
       (iv) by striking subsection (f).
       (d) Documented Defined.--Chapter 563 of title 46, United 
     States Code, as amended by this section, is further amended 
     by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 56312. Documented defined

       ``In sections 56309 through 56311, the term `documented' 
     means, with respect to a vessel, that a certificate of 
     documentation has been issued for the vessel under chapter 
     121.''.
       (e) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 563 of 
     title 46, United States Code, as otherwise amended by this 
     title, is further amended by adding at the end the following:

``56309. Emergency foreign vessel acquisition; purchase or requisition 
              of vessels lying idle in United States waters
``56310. Voluntary purchase or charter agreements
``56311. Requisitioned vessels
``56312. Documented defined''.
       (f) References.--Any reference in a law, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to a 
     section that is redesignated and transferred by this section 
     is deemed to refer to such section as so redesignated and 
     transferred.

     SEC. 3505. ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL SHIPYARDS.

       (a) In General.--Section 54101 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in the section heading, by striking ``and maritime 
     communities'';
       (2) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``in communities'' 
     and all that follows through the period and inserting 
     ``relating to shipbuilding, ship repair, and associated 
     industries.'';
       (3) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
       ``(b) Awards.--
       ``(1) In general.--In providing assistance under the 
     program, the Administrator shall consider projects that 
     foster--
       ``(A) efficiency, competitive operations, and quality ship 
     construction, repair, and reconfiguration; and
       ``(B) employee skills and enhanced productivity related to 
     shipbuilding, ship repair, and associated industries.
       ``(2) Timing of grants.--The Administrator shall award 
     grants under this section not later than 120 days after the 
     date of the enactment of the appropriations Act for the 
     fiscal year concerned.
       ``(3) Reuse of unexpended grant funds.--Notwithstanding 
     paragraph (2), amounts awarded as a grant under this section 
     that are not expended by the grantee shall remain available 
     to the Administrator for use for grants under this 
     section.'';
       (4) in subsection (c)(1)--
       (A) by inserting ``to'' after ``may be used''; and
       (B) by striking subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(A) make capital and related improvements in small 
     shipyards; and
       ``(B) provide training for workers in shipbuilding, ship 
     repair, and associated industries.'';
       (5) in subsection (d), by striking ``unless'' and all that 
     follows before the period; and
       (6) in subsection (e)--

[[Page H8879]]

       (A) by striking paragraph (2);
       (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
       (C) in paragraph (1) by striking ``Except as provided in 
     paragraph (2),''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 541 of 
     title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 54101 and inserting the following:

``54101. Assistance for small shipyards.''.

     SEC. 3506. REPORT ON SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIM RECOVERY IN THE 
                   COAST GUARD.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Commandant of the Coast Guard 
     shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate a report on sexual assault prevention and response 
     policies of the Coast Guard and strategic goals related to 
     sexual assault victim recovery.
       (b) Contents.--The report shall--
       (1) describe Coast Guard strategic goals relating to sexual 
     assault climate, prevention, response, and accountability, 
     and actions taken by the Coast Guard to promote sexual 
     assault victim recovery;
       (2) explain how victim recovery is being incorporated into 
     Coast Guard strategic and programmatic guidance related to 
     sexual assault prevention and response;
       (3) examine current Coast Guard sexual assault prevention 
     and response policy with respect to--
       (A) Coast Guard criteria for what comprises sexual assault 
     victim recovery;
       (B) alignment of Coast Guard personnel policies to 
     enhance--
       (i) an approach to sexual assault response that gives 
     priority to victim recovery;
       (ii) upholding individual privacy and dignity; and
       (iii) the opportunity for the continuation of Coast Guard 
     service by sexual assault victims; and
       (C) sexual harassment response, including a description of 
     the circumstances under which sexual harassment is considered 
     a criminal offense; and
       (4) to ensure victims and supervisors understand the full 
     scope of resources available to aid in long-term recovery, 
     explain how the Coast Guard informs its workforce about 
     changes to sexual assault prevention and response policies 
     related to victim recovery.

     SEC. 3507. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 541 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 54102. Centers of excellence for domestic maritime 
       workforce training and education

       ``(a) Designation.--The Secretary of Transportation may 
     designate as a center of excellence for domestic maritime 
     workforce training and education a covered training entity 
     located in a State that borders on the--
       ``(1) Gulf of Mexico;
       ``(2) Atlantic Ocean;
       ``(3) Long Island Sound;
       ``(4) Pacific Ocean;
       ``(5) Great Lakes;
       ``(6) Mississippi River System;
       ``(7) Arctic; or
       ``(8) Gulf of Alaska.
       ``(b) Assistance.--The Secretary may enter into a 
     cooperative agreement (as that term is used in section 6305 
     of title 31) with a center of excellence designated under 
     subsection (a) to support maritime workforce training and 
     education at the center of excellence, including efforts of 
     the center of excellence to--
       ``(1) admit additional students;
       ``(2) recruit and train faculty;
       ``(3) expand facilities;
       ``(4) create new maritime career pathways; or
       ``(5) award students credit for prior experience, including 
     military service.
       ``(c)  Definitions.--In this section,
       ``(1) Covered training entity.--the term `covered training 
     entity' means an entity that is--
       ``(A) a community or technical college; or
       ``(B) a maritime training center--
       ``(i) operated by, or under the supervision of, a State; 
     and
       ``(ii) with a maritime training program in operation on the 
     date of enactment of this section.
       ``(2) Arctic.--The term `Arctic' has the meaning that term 
     has under section 112 of the Arctic Research and Policy Act 
     of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4111).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 541 of 
     title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
     the item relating to section 54101 the following:

``54102. Centers of excellence for domestic maritime workforce training 
              and education.''.

     SEC. 3508. FOREIGN SPILL PROTECTION.

       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
     ``Foreign Spill Protection Act of 2017''.
       (b) Liability of Owners and Operators of Foreign 
     Facilities.--
       (1) Oil pollution control act amendments.--
       (A) Definitions.--Section 1001 of the Oil Pollution Act of 
     1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701) is amended--
       (i) in paragraph (26)(A)--

       (I) in clause (ii), by striking ``onshore or offshore 
     facility, any person'' and inserting ``onshore facility, 
     offshore facility, or foreign offshore unit or other facility 
     located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, any person or 
     entity''; and
       (II) in clause (iii), by striking ``offshore facility, the 
     person who'' and inserting ``offshore facility or foreign 
     offshore unit or other facility located seaward of the 
     exclusive economic zone, the person or entity that''; and

       (ii) in paragraph (32)--

       (I) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (F) as 
     subparagraphs (E) through (G), respectively;
       (II) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:

       ``(D) Foreign facilities.--In the case of a foreign 
     offshore unit or other facility located seaward of the 
     exclusive economic zone, any person or other entity owning or 
     operating the facility, and any leaseholder, permit holder, 
     assignee, or holder of a right of use and easement granted 
     under applicable foreign law for the area in which the 
     facility is located.''; and

       (III) in subparagraph (G), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``or offshore facility, the persons who'' and inserting ``, 
     offshore facility, or foreign offshore unit or other facility 
     located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, the persons 
     or entities that''.

       (B) Actions on behalf of fund.--Section 1015(c) of the Oil 
     Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2715(c)) is amended, in the 
     third sentence, by adding before the period at the end the 
     following: ``or other facility located seaward of the 
     exclusive economic zone''.
       (2) Federal water pollution control act amendments.--
     Section 311(a)(11) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
     (33 U.S.C. 1321(a)(11)) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``and any facility'' and inserting ``any 
     facility''; and
       (B) by inserting ``, and, for the purposes of applying 
     subsections (b), (c), (e), and (o), any foreign offshore unit 
     (as defined in section 1001 of the Oil Pollution Act) or any 
     other facility located seaward of the exclusive economic 
     zone'' after ``public vessel''.

     SEC. 3509. REMOVAL OF ADJUNCT PROFESSOR LIMIT AT UNITED 
                   STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY.

       Section 51317 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (2) by striking subsections (c) and (d).

     SEC. 3510. ACCEPTANCE OF GUARANTEES IN CONJUNCTION WITH 
                   PARTIAL DONATIONS FOR MAJOR PROJECTS OF THE 
                   UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY.

       (a) Guarantees.--Chapter 513 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 51320. Acceptance of guarantees with gifts for major 
       projects

       ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Major project.--The term `major project' means a 
     project estimated to cost at least $1,000,000 for--
       ``(A) the purchase or other procurement of real or personal 
     property; or
       ``(B) the construction, renovation, or repair of real or 
     personal property.
       ``(2) Major united states commercial bank.--The term `major 
     United States commercial bank' means a commercial bank that--
       ``(A) is an insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the 
     Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h)));
       ``(B) is headquartered in the United States; and
       ``(C) has total net assets of an amount considered by the 
     Maritime Administrator to qualify the bank as a major bank.
       ``(3) Major united states investment management firm.--The 
     term `major United States investment management firm' means--
       ``(A) any broker or dealer (as such terms are defined in 
     section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
     78c));
       ``(B) any investment adviser or provider of investment 
     supervisory services (as such terms are defined in section 
     202 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-
     2)); or
       ``(C) a major United States commercial bank that--
       ``(i) is headquartered in the United States; and
       ``(ii) holds for the account of others investment assets in 
     a total amount considered by the Maritime Administrator to 
     qualify the bank as a major investment management firm.
       ``(4) Qualified guarantee.--The term `qualified guarantee', 
     with respect to a major project, means a guarantee that--
       ``(A) is made by 1 or more persons in connection with a 
     donation for the project of a total amount in cash or 
     securities that the Maritime Administrator determines is 
     sufficient to defray a substantial portion of the total cost 
     of the project;
       ``(B) is made to facilitate or expedite the completion of 
     the project in reasonable anticipation that other donors will 
     contribute sufficient funds or other resources in amounts 
     sufficient to pay for completion of the project;
       ``(C) is set forth as a written agreement providing that 
     the donor will furnish in cash or securities, in addition to 
     the donor's other gift or gifts for the project, any 
     additional amount that may become necessary for paying the 
     cost of completing the project by reason of a failure to 
     obtain from other donors or sources funds or other resources 
     in amounts sufficient to pay the cost of completing the 
     project; and
       ``(D) is accompanied by--
       ``(i) an irrevocable and unconditional standby letter of 
     credit for the benefit of the United States Merchant Marine 
     Academy that is in the amount of the guarantee and is issued 
     by a major United States commercial bank; or
       ``(ii) a qualified account control agreement.
       ``(5) Qualified account control agreement.--The term 
     `qualified account control agreement', with respect to a 
     guarantee of a donor, means an agreement among the donor, the 
     Maritime Administrator, and a major United States investment 
     management firm that--
       ``(A) ensures the availability of sufficient funds or other 
     financial resources to pay the

[[Page H8880]]

     amount guaranteed during the period of the guarantee;
       ``(B) provides for the perfection of a security interest in 
     the assets of the account for the United States for the 
     benefit of the United States Merchant Marine Academy with the 
     highest priority available for liens and security interests 
     under applicable law;
       ``(C) requires the donor to maintain in an account with the 
     investment management firm assets having a total value that 
     is not less than 130 percent of the amount guaranteed; and
       ``(D) requires the investment management firm, whenever the 
     value of the account is less than the value required to be 
     maintained under subparagraph (C), to liquidate any noncash 
     assets in the account and reinvest the proceeds in Treasury 
     bills issued under section 3104 of title 31.
       ``(b) Acceptance Authority.--Subject to subsection (d), the 
     Maritime Administrator may accept a qualified guarantee from 
     a donor or donors for the completion of a major project for 
     the benefit of the United States Merchant Marine Academy.
       ``(c) Obligation Authority.--The amount of a qualified 
     guarantee accepted under this section shall be considered as 
     contract authority to provide obligation authority for 
     purposes of Federal fiscal and contractual requirements. 
     Funds available for a project for which such a guarantee has 
     been accepted may be obligated and expended for the project 
     without regard to whether the total amount of funds and other 
     resources available for the project (not taking into account 
     the amount of the guarantee) is sufficient to pay for 
     completion of the project.
       ``(d) Notice.--The Maritime Administrator may not accept a 
     qualified guarantee under this section for the completion of 
     a major project until 30 days after the date on which a 
     report of the facts concerning the proposed guarantee is 
     submitted to Congress.
       ``(e) Prohibition on Commingling Funds.--The Maritime 
     Administrator may not enter into any contract or other 
     transaction involving the use of a qualified guarantee and 
     appropriated funds in the same contract or transaction.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     513 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
     the end the following:

``51320. Acceptance of guarantees with gifts for major projects.''.

     SEC. 3511. AUTHORITY TO PAY CONVEYANCE OR TRANSFER EXPENSES 
                   IN CONNECTION WITH ACCEPTANCE OF A GIFT TO THE 
                   UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY.

       Section 51315 of title 46, United States Code, is amended 
     by inserting at the end the following:
       ``(f) Payment of Expenses.--The Maritime Administrator may 
     pay all necessary expenses in connection with the conveyance 
     or transfer of a gift, devise, or bequest accepted under this 
     section.''.

     SEC. 3512. AUTHORITY TO PARTICIPATE IN FEDERAL, STATE OR 
                   OTHER RESEARCH GRANTS.

       (a) Research Grants.--Chapter 513 of title 46, United 
     States Code, as amended by sections 3510 of this title, is 
     further amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 51321. Grants for scientific and educational research

       ``(a) Defined Term.--In this section, the term `qualifying 
     research grant' is a grant that--
       ``(1) is awarded on a competitive basis by the Federal 
     Government (except for the Department of Transportation), a 
     State, a corporation, a fund, a foundation, an educational 
     institution, or a similar entity that is organized and 
     operated primarily for scientific or educational purposes; 
     and
       ``(2) is to be used to carry out a research project with a 
     scientific or educational purpose.
       ``(b) Acceptance of Qualifying Research Grants.--The United 
     States Merchant Marine Academy may compete for and accept 
     qualifying research grants if the work under the grant is to 
     be carried out by a professor or instructor of the United 
     States Merchant Marine Academy.
       ``(c) Administration of Grant Funds.--
       ``(1) Establishment of account.--The Maritime Administrator 
     shall establish a separate account for administering funds 
     received from research grants under this section.
       ``(2) Use of grant funds.--The Superintendent shall use 
     grant funds deposited into the account established pursuant 
     to paragraph (1) in accordance with applicable regulations 
     and the terms and conditions of the respective grants.
       ``(d) Related Expenses.--Subject to such limitations as may 
     be provided in appropriations Acts, appropriations available 
     for the United States Merchant Marine Academy may be used to 
     pay expenses incurred by the Academy in applying for, and 
     otherwise pursuing, a qualifying research grant.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     513 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by section 
     3510(b), is further amended by adding at the end the 
     following:

``51321. Grants for scientific and educational research.''.

     SEC. 3513. PROVISION OF SATELLITE COMMUNICATION DEVICES 
                   DURING SEA YEAR PROGRAM.

       Section 3514 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 46 U.S.C. 51318 note) 
     is amended--
       (1) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(a) Vessel Operator Requirements.--Not later than''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Provision of Satellite Phone.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Maritime Administrator shall ensure 
     that each cadet from the United States Merchant Marine 
     Academy who is participating in the Sea Year program is 
     provided a functional satellite communication device. A cadet 
     may not be denied from using the device whenever the student 
     determines that use of the device is necessary to prevent or 
     report sexual harassment or sexual assault.
       ``(2) Check-in.--Not less often than once each week during 
     a cadet's participation in the Sea Year program, the cadet 
     shall check-in with designated personnel at the Academy via 
     the satellite communication device provided under paragraph 
     (1). A text message sent via the satellite device shall meet 
     the requirement for a weekly check-in for purposes of this 
     paragraph.''.

     SEC. 3514. ACTIONS TO ADDRESS SEXUAL HARASSMENT, DATING 
                   VIOLENCE, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, 
                   AND STALKING AT THE UNITED STATES MERCHANT 
                   MARINE ACADEMY.

       (a) Expansion of Required Policy.--Section 51318(a) of 
     title 46, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``harassment and sexual 
     assault'' and inserting ``harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking'';
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``harassment and sexual assault'' and inserting ``harassment, 
     dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and 
     stalking'';
       (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``domestic violence, 
     dating violence, stalking,'' after ``acquaintance rape,'';
       (C) in subparagraph (B)--
       (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
     ``harassment or sexual assault,'' and inserting ``harassment, 
     dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or 
     stalking,'';
       (ii) in clause (i), by striking ``harassment or sexual 
     assault'' and inserting ``harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking''; and
       (iii) in clause (iii), by striking ``criminal sexual 
     assault'' and inserting ``a criminal sexual offense'';
       (D) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``harassment or sexual 
     assault'' and inserting ``harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking'';
       (E) in subparagraph (E)--
       (i) in clause (i), by striking ``harassment or sexual 
     assault'' and inserting ``harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking'';
       (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``sexual assault'' and 
     inserting ``sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
     violence, sexual assault, or stalking''; and
       (iii) in clause (iii), by striking ``harassment and sexual 
     assault'' and inserting ``harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking''; and
       (F) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``harassment or sexual 
     assault'' and inserting ``harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking'';
       (3) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
     (4) and (5), respectively;
       (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(3) Minimum training requirements for certain individuals 
     regarding sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
     violence, sexual assault, and stalking.--
       ``(A) Requirement.--The Maritime Administrator shall direct 
     the Superintendent of the United States Merchant Marine 
     Academy to develop a mandatory training program at the 
     Academy for each individual who is involved in implementing 
     the Academy's student disciplinary grievance procedures, 
     including each individual who is responsible for--
       ``(i) resolving complaints of reported sexual harassment, 
     dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and 
     stalking;
       ``(ii) resolving complaints of reported violations of the 
     sexual misconduct policy of the Academy; or
       ``(iii) conducting an interview with a victim of sexual 
     harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, or stalking.
       ``(B) Consultation.--The Superintendent shall develop the 
     training program described in subparagraph (A) in 
     consultation with national, State, or local sexual assault, 
     dating violence, domestic violence, or stalking victim 
     advocacy, victim services, or prevention organizations.
       ``(C) Elements.--The training required by subparagraph (A) 
     shall include the following:
       ``(i) Information on working with and interviewing persons 
     subjected to sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
     violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
       ``(ii) Information on particular types of conduct that 
     would constitute sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
     violence, sexual assault, or stalking, regardless of gender, 
     including same-sex sexual harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
       ``(iii) Information on consent and the effect that drugs or 
     alcohol may have on an individual's ability to consent.
       ``(iv) Information on the effects of trauma, including the 
     neurobiology of trauma.
       ``(v) Training regarding the use of trauma-informed 
     interview techniques, which means asking questions of an 
     individual who has been a victim of sexual harassment, dating 
     violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking in a 
     manner that is focused on the experience of the victim, does 
     not judge or blame the victim, and is informed by evidence-
     based research on the neurobiology of trauma.
       ``(vi) Training on cultural awareness regarding how dating 
     violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking may 
     impact midshipmen differently depending on their cultural 
     background.
       ``(vii) Information on sexual assault dynamics, sexual 
     assault perpetrator behavior, and barriers to reporting.

[[Page H8881]]

       ``(D) Implementation.--
       ``(i) Development and approval schedule.--The training 
     program required by subparagraph (A) shall be developed not 
     later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
       ``(ii) Completion of training.--Each individual who is 
     required to complete the training described in subparagraph 
     (A) shall complete such training not later than--

       ``(I) 270 days after the date of the enactment of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018; or
       ``(II) 180 days after starting a position with 
     responsibilities that include the activities described in 
     clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A).''; and

       (5) by inserting after paragraph (5), as so redesignated, 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(6) Consistency with the higher education act of 1965.--
     The Secretary shall ensure that the policy developed under 
     this subsection meets the requirements set out in section 
     485(f)(8) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     1092(f)(8)).''.
       (b) Minimum Procedures for Handling Reports of Sexual 
     Harassment, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Sexual 
     Assault, or Stalking.--Subsection (b) of section 51318 of 
     title 46, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Development Program.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Maritime Administrator shall ensure 
     that the development program of the Academy includes a 
     section that--
       ``(A) describes the relationship between honor, respect, 
     and character development and the prevention of sexual 
     harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, and stalking at the Academy;
       ``(B) includes a brief history of the problem of sexual 
     harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, and stalking in the merchant marine, in the Armed 
     Forces, and at the Academy; and
       ``(C) includes information relating to reporting sexual 
     harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, and stalking, victims' rights, and dismissal for 
     offenders.
       ``(2) Minimum requirements to combat retaliation.--
       ``(A) Requirement for plan.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, the Maritime 
     Administrator shall direct the Superintendent of the United 
     States Merchant Marine Academy to implement and maintain a 
     plan to combat retaliation against cadets at the Academy who 
     report sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, 
     sexual assault, or stalking.
       ``(B) Violation of code of conduct.--The Superintendent 
     shall consider an act of retaliation against a cadet at the 
     Academy who reports sexual harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking as a Class I 
     violation of the Midshipman Regulations of the Academy or 
     equivalent code of conduct.
       ``(C) Retaliation definition.--The Superintendent shall 
     work with the sexual assault prevention and response staff of 
     the Academy to define `retaliation' for purposes of this 
     subsection.
       ``(3) Minimum resource requirements.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Maritime Administrator shall ensure 
     the staff at the Academy are provided adequate and 
     appropriate sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
     violence, sexual assault, and stalking prevention and 
     response training materials and resources. Such resources 
     shall include staff as follows:
       ``(i) Sexual assault response coordinator.
       ``(ii) Prevention educator.
       ``(iii) Civil rights officer.
       ``(iv) Staff member to oversee Sea Year.
       ``(B) Communication.--The Director of the Office of Civil 
     Rights of the Maritime Administration shall create and 
     maintain a direct line of communication to the sexual assault 
     response staff of the Academy that is outside of the chain of 
     command of the Academy.
       ``(4) Minimum training requirements.--The Superintendent 
     shall ensure that all cadets receive training on the sexual 
     harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, and stalking prevention and response sections of the 
     development program of the Academy, as described in paragraph 
     (1), as follows:
       ``(A) An initial training session, which shall occur not 
     later than 7 days after a cadet's initial arrival at the 
     Academy.
       ``(B) Additional training sessions, which shall occur 
     biannually following the cadet's initial training session 
     until the cadet graduates or leaves the Academy.''.
       (c) Aggregate Reporting and Definitions.--Section 51318 of 
     title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new subsections:
       ``(e) Data for Aggregate Reporting.--
       ``(1) In general.--No requirement related to 
     confidentiality in this section or section 51319 of this 
     title may be construed to prevent a sexual assault response 
     coordinator from providing information for any report 
     required by law regarding sexual harassment, dating violence, 
     domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
       ``(2) Identity protection.--Any information provided for a 
     report referred to in paragraph (1) shall be provided in a 
     manner that protects the identity of the victim or witness.
       ``(f) Definitions.--In this section and section 51319 of 
     this title:
       ``(1) Dating violence; domestic violence; stalking.--The 
     terms `dating violence', `domestic violence', and `stalking' 
     have the meanings given those terms is section 40002(a) of 
     the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a)).
       ``(2) Sexual assault.--The term `sexual assault' means an 
     offense classified as a forcible or nonforcible sex offense 
     under the uniform crime reporting system of the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation.''.
       (d) Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 51318 of title 
     46, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 51318. Policy on sexual harassment, dating violence, 
       domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking''.

       (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections for chapter 
     513 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking 
     the item relating to section 51318 and inserting the 
     following new item:

``51318. Policy on sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
              violence, sexual assault, and stalking.''.

     SEC. 3515. SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE STAFF FOR 
                   THE UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY.

       (a) In General.--Section 51319 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
       (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following 
     new subsections:
       ``(a) Sexual Assault Response Coordinators.--
       ``(1) Requirement for coordinators.--The United States 
     Merchant Marine Academy shall employ or contract with at 
     least 1 full-time sexual assault response coordinator who 
     shall reside at or near the Academy. The Secretary of 
     Transportation may assign additional full-time or part-time 
     sexual assault response coordinators at the Academy as 
     necessary.
       ``(2) Selection criteria.--Each sexual assault response 
     coordinator shall be selected based on--
       ``(A) experience and a demonstrated ability to effectively 
     provide victim services related to sexual harassment, dating 
     violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking; 
     and
       ``(B) protection of the individual under applicable law to 
     provide privileged communication.
       ``(3) Confidentiality.--A sexual assault response 
     coordinator shall, to the extent authorized under applicable 
     law, provide confidential services to a cadet at the Academy 
     who reports being a victim of, or witness to, sexual 
     harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, or stalking.
       ``(4) Training.--
       ``(A) Verification.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2018, the Maritime Administrator, in 
     consultation with the Director of the Maritime Administration 
     Office of Civil Rights, shall develop a process to verify 
     that each sexual assault response coordinator has completed 
     proper training.
       ``(B) Training requirements.--The training referred to in 
     subparagraph (A) shall include training in--
       ``(i) working with victims of sexual harassment, dating 
     violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
       ``(ii) the policies, procedures, and resources of the 
     Academy related to responding to sexual harassment, dating 
     violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking; 
     and
       ``(iii) national, State, and local victim services and 
     resources available to victims of sexual harassment, dating 
     violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
       ``(C) Completion of training.--A sexual assault response 
     coordinator shall complete the training referred to in 
     subparagraphs (A) and (B) not later than--
       ``(i) 270 days after enactment of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018; or
       ``(ii) 180 days after starting in the role of sexual 
     assault response coordinator.
       ``(5) Duties.--A sexual assault response coordinator 
     shall--
       ``(A) confidentially receive a report from a victim of 
     sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, or stalking;
       ``(B) inform the victim of--
       ``(i) the victim's rights under applicable law;
       ``(ii) options for reporting an incident of sexual 
     harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, or stalking to the Academy and law enforcement;
       ``(iii) how to access available services, including 
     emergency medical care, medical forensic or evidentiary 
     examinations, legal services, services provided by rape 
     crisis centers and other victim service providers, services 
     provided by the volunteer sexual assault victim advocates at 
     the Academy, and crisis intervention counseling and ongoing 
     counseling;
       ``(iv) such coordinator's ability to assist in arranging 
     access to such services, with the consent of the victim;
       ``(v) available accommodations, such as allowing the victim 
     to change living arrangements and obtain accessibility 
     services;
       ``(vi) such coordinator's ability to assist in arranging 
     such accommodations, with the consent of the victim;
       ``(vii) the victim's rights and the Academy's 
     responsibilities regarding orders of protection, no contact 
     orders, restraining orders, or similar lawful orders issued 
     by the Academy or a criminal, civil, or tribal court; and
       ``(viii) privacy limitations under applicable law;
       ``(C) represent the interests of any cadet at the Academy 
     who reports being a victim of sexual harassment, dating 
     violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, 
     even if such interests are in conflict with the interests of 
     the Academy;
       ``(D) advise the victim of, and provide written materials 
     regarding, the information described in subparagraph (B);
       ``(E) liaise with appropriate staff at the Academy, with 
     the victim's consent, to arrange reasonable accommodations 
     through the Academy

[[Page H8882]]

     to allow the victim to change living arrangements, obtain 
     accessibility services, or access other accommodations;
       ``(F) maintain the privacy and confidentiality of the 
     victim, and shall not notify the Academy or any other 
     authority of the identity of the victim or the alleged 
     circumstances surrounding the reported incident unless--
       ``(i) otherwise required by applicable law;
       ``(ii) requested to do so by the victim who has been fully 
     and accurately informed about what procedures shall occur if 
     the information is shared; or
       ``(iii) notwithstanding clause (i) or clause (ii), there is 
     risk of imminent harm to other individuals;
       ``(G) assist the victim in contacting and reporting an 
     incident of sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
     violence, sexual assault, or stalking to the Academy or law 
     enforcement, if requested to do so by the victim who has been 
     fully and accurately informed about what procedures shall 
     occur if information is shared; and
       ``(H) submit to the Director of the Maritime Administration 
     Office of Civil Rights an annual report summarizing how the 
     resources supplied to the coordinator were used during the 
     prior year, including the number of victims assisted by the 
     coordinator.
       ``(b) Oversight.--
       ``(1) In general.--
       ``(A) Reporting.--Each sexual assault response coordinator 
     shall--
       ``(i) report directly to the Superintendent; and
       ``(ii) have concurrent reporting responsibility to the 
     Executive Director of the Maritime Administration on matters 
     related to the Maritime Administration and the Department of 
     Transportation and upon belief that the Academy leadership is 
     acting inappropriately regarding sexual assault prevention 
     and response matters.
       ``(B) Support.--The Maritime Administration Office of Civil 
     Rights shall provide support to the sexual assault response 
     coordinator at the Academy on all sexual harassment, dating 
     violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking 
     prevention matters.
       ``(2) Prohibition on investigation by the academy.--Any 
     request by a victim for an accommodation, as described in 
     subsection (a)(5)(E), made by a sexual assault response 
     coordinator shall not trigger an investigation by the 
     Academy, even if such coordinator deals only with matters 
     relating to sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
     violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
       ``(3) Prohibition on retaliation.--A sexual assault 
     response coordinator, victim advocate, or companion may not 
     be disciplined, penalized, or otherwise retaliated against by 
     the Academy for representing the interests of the victim, 
     even if such interests are in conflict with the interests of 
     the Academy.''.
       (b) Access of Academy Cadets to DOD SAFE or Equivalent 
     Helpline.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
     arrange for cadets at the United States Merchant Marine 
     Academy to have access to, and use of, the Department of 
     Defense SAFE Helpline or an equivalent helpline to report 
     incidents of sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic 
     violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
       (2) Training.--The training provided to personnel of the 
     helpline to which cadets at the Academy are given access 
     shall include training on the resources available to cadets 
     at the Academy in connection with sexual assault, sexual 
     harassment, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking.
       (3) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``dating 
     violence'', ``domestic violence'', ``sexual assault'', and 
     ``stalking'' have the meanings given those terms in section 
     51318 of title 46, United States Code.
       (c) Repeal of Duplicate Requirement.--Subsection (c) of 
     section 51319 of title 46, United States Code, as 
     redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended--
       (1) by striking paragraph (5);
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (5); and
       (3) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``(3), (4), and (5)'' and inserting ``(3) and (4)''.

     SEC. 3516. PROTECTION OF CADETS AT THE UNITED STATES MERCHANT 
                   MARINE ACADEMY FROM SEXUAL ASSAULT ONBOARD 
                   COMMERCIAL VESSELS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 513 of title 46, United States 
     Code, as amended by section 3512 of this title, is further 
     amended by adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 51322. Protection of cadets from sexual assault 
       onboard vessels

       ``(a) Riding Gangs.--
       ``(1) Certification of compliance.--The Maritime 
     Administrator shall require the owner or operator of any 
     commercial vessel that is carrying a cadet from the United 
     States Merchant Marine Academy to certify compliance of the 
     vessel with the International Convention for Safety of Life 
     at Sea, 1974 (32 UST 47) and section 8106 of this title.
       ``(2) Information for cadets.--The Maritime Administrator 
     shall ensure that the Academy informs cadets preparing for 
     Sea Year of the obligations that vessel owners and operators 
     have to provide for the security of individuals aboard a 
     vessel under United States law, including chapter 81 and 
     section 70103(c) of this title.
       ``(b) Checks of Commercial Vessels.--
       ``(1) Requirement.--Not less frequently than biennially, 
     staff of the Academy or staff of the Maritime Administration 
     shall conduct both random and targeted unannounced checks of 
     not less than 10 percent of the commercial vessels that host 
     a cadet from the Academy.
       ``(2) Removal of students.--If staff of the Academy or 
     staff of the Maritime Administration determine that a 
     commercial vessel is in violation of the sexual assault 
     policy developed by the Academy through a check conducted 
     under paragraph (1), the staff may--
       ``(A) remove any cadet of the Academy from the vessel; and
       ``(B) report the violation to the owner or operator of the 
     vessel.
       ``(c) Maintenance of Sexual Assault Training Records.--The 
     Maritime Administrator shall require the owner or operator of 
     a commercial vessel, or the seafarer union for a commercial 
     vessel, to maintain records of sexual assault training for 
     the crew and passengers of any vessel hosting a cadet from 
     the Academy.
       ``(d) Sea Year Survey.--
       ``(1) Requirement.--The Maritime Administrator shall 
     require each cadet from the Academy, upon completion of the 
     cadet's Sea Year, to complete a survey regarding the 
     environment and conditions during the Sea Year of the vessel 
     to which the cadet was assigned.
       ``(2) Availability.--The Maritime Administrator shall make 
     available to the public for each year--
       ``(A) the questions used in the survey required by 
     paragraph (1); and
       ``(B) the aggregated data received from such surveys.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     513 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by section 
     3512 of this title, is further amended by adding at the end 
     the following new item:

``51322. Protection of cadets from sexual assault onboard vessels.''.

     SEC. 3517. TRAINING REQUIREMENT FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT 
                   INVESTIGATORS.

       Each employee of the Office of Inspector General of the 
     Department of Transportation who conducts investigations and 
     who is assigned to the Regional Investigations Office in New 
     York, New York, shall--
       (1) participate in specialized training in conducting 
     sexual assault investigations; and
       (2) attend at least 1 Federal Law Enforcement Training 
     Center (FLETC) sexual assault investigation course, or 
     equivalent sexual assault investigation training course, as 
     determined by the Inspector General, each year.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

     SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.

       (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
     specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, 
     or activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified 
     dollar amount for the project, program, or activity is hereby 
     authorized, subject to the availability of appropriations.
       (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, 
     or expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of 
     a dollar amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
       (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in 
     accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 
     of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive 
     procedures; and
       (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
       (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An 
     amount specified in the funding tables in this division may 
     be transferred or reprogrammed under a transfer or 
     reprogramming authority provided by another provision of this 
     Act or by other law. The transfer or reprogramming of an 
     amount specified in such funding tables shall not count 
     against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
     section 1001 or section 1512 of this Act or any other 
     provision of law, unless such transfer or reprogramming would 
     move funds between appropriation accounts.
       (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section 
     applies to any classified annex that accompanies this Act.
       (e) Oral and Written Communications.--No oral or written 
     communication concerning any amount specified in the funding 
     tables in this division shall supersede the requirements of 
     this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.

     SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2018        Conference
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
002               UTILITY F/W AIRCRAFT.          75,115          75,115
004               MQ-1 UAV.............          30,206          90,206
                      UFR: ER Improved                          [60,000]
                      Gray Eagle Air
                      Vehicles.

[[Page H8883]]

 
                  ROTARY
005               HELICOPTER, LIGHT             108,383         108,383
                   UTILITY (LUH).
006               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK            725,976         764,976
                   IIIA REMAN.
                      UFR: Procures                             [39,000]
                      remanufactured
                      AH64Es.
007                  ADVANCE                    170,910         170,910
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK            374,100         647,800
                   IIIB NEW BUILD.
                      UFR: Procures AH-                        [273,700]
                      64E.
009                  ADVANCE                     71,900          71,900
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
010               UH-60 BLACKHAWK M             938,308       1,046,308
                   MODEL (MYP).
                      Unfunded                                 [108,000]
                      requirement--addi
                      tional 5 for ARNG.
011                  ADVANCE                     86,295          86,295
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
012               UH-60 BLACK HAWK A             76,516          93,216
                   AND L MODELS.
                      Unfunded                                  [16,700]
                      requirement--UH-6
                      0Vs.
013               CH-47 HELICOPTER.....         202,576         557,076
                      Emergent                                 [108,000]
                      requirements--add
                      itional 4 CH-47F
                      Block I.
                      Unfunded                                 [246,500]
                      requirement--addi
                      tional 4 MH-47Gs.
014                  ADVANCE                     17,820          17,820
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
015               MQ-1 PAYLOAD (MIP)...           5,910          21,910
                      UFR: Procures of                          [16,000]
                      Common Sensor
                      Payloads.
016               UNIVERSAL GROUND               15,000          15,000
                   CONTROL EQUIPMENT
                   (UAS).
017               GRAY EAGLE MODS2.....          74,291          74,291
018               MULTI SENSOR ABN               68,812          98,287
                   RECON (MIP).
                      UFR: Procures of                          [29,475]
                      Electronic
                      Intelligence
                      (ELINT) upgrades.
019               AH-64 MODS...........         238,141         382,941
                      Unfunded                                 [144,800]
                      requirement.
020               CH-47 CARGO                    20,166          81,166
                   HELICOPTER MODS
                   (MYP).
                      Unfunded                                  [61,000]
                      requirement.
021               GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP).           5,514           5,514
022               ARL SEMA MODS (MIP)..          11,650          11,650
023               EMARSS SEMA MODS               15,279          15,279
                   (MIP).
024               UTILITY/CARGO                  57,737          57,737
                   AIRPLANE MODS.
025               UTILITY HELICOPTER              5,900          40,709
                   MODS.
                      Unfunded                                  [34,809]
                      requirement.
026               NETWORK AND MISSION           142,102         142,102
                   PLAN.
027               COMMS, NAV                    166,050         207,630
                   SURVEILLANCE.
                      Unfunded                                  [41,580]
                      requirement--ARC-
                      201D encrypted
                      radios.
028               GATM ROLLUP..........          37,403          37,403
029               RQ-7 UAV MODS........          83,160         194,160
                      UFR: Procures                            [111,000]
                      Shadow V2 BLK III
                      systems.
030               UAS MODS.............          26,109          26,429
                      UFR: Procures                                [320]
                      OSRVT systems.
                  GROUND SUPPORT
                   AVIONICS
031               AIRCRAFT                       70,913          70,913
                   SURVIVABILITY
                   EQUIPMENT.
032               SURVIVABILITY CM.....           5,884           5,884
033               CMWS.................          26,825          51,825
                      UFR: Limited                              [25,000]
                      Interim Missile
                      Warning System
                      (LIMWS) Quick
                      Reaction
                      Capability.
034               COMMON INFRARED                 6,337          31,337
                   COUNTERMEASURES
                   (CIRCM).
                      UFR: CIRCM B-Kits                         [25,000]
                  OTHER SUPPORT
035               AVIONICS SUPPORT                7,038           7,038
                   EQUIPMENT.
036               COMMON GROUND                  47,404          56,304
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unfunded                                   [1,800]
                      requirement--grow
                      the Army.
                      Unfunded                                   [7,100]
                      requirement--Non
                      destructive test
                      equip.
037               AIRCREW INTEGRATED             47,066          47,066
                   SYSTEMS.
038               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL..          83,790          84,905
                      UFR: Airspace                              [1,115]
                      Information
                      System shelter
                      and Alternate
                      Workstation.
039               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES           1,397           1,397
040               LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET           1,911           1,911
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT         4,149,894       5,500,793
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  SURFACE-TO-AIR
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
001               LOWER TIER AIR AND            140,826         140,826
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   (AMD).
002               MSE MISSILE..........       1,106,040       1,106,040
003               INDIRECT FIRE                  57,742          57,742
                   PROTECTION
                   CAPABILITY INC 2-I.
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
005               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.          94,790         104,790
                      UFR: Procures                             [10,000]
                      maximum Hellfire
                      missile.
006               JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND           178,432         160,126
                   MSLS (JAGM).
                      Excess due to                            [-18,306]
                      delays.
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
008               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)              110,123         257,423
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
                      UFR: Procures                            [147,300]
                      additional
                      Javelin.
009               TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY.          85,851          85,851
010                  ADVANCE                     19,949          19,949
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
011               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET            595,182         606,882
                   (GMLRS).
                      Program                                   [-2,800]
                      reduction--unit
                      cost savings.
                      UFR: Tooling and                          [14,500]
                      practice rounds.
012               MLRS REDUCED RANGE             28,321          34,651
                   PRACTICE ROCKETS
                   (RRPR).
                      UFR: Funds                                 [6,330]
                      Reduced Range
                      Practice Rockets.
013               HIGH MOBILITY                                 435,728
                   ARTILLERY ROCKET
                   SYSTEM (HIMARS.
                      Unfunded                                 [197,000]
                      requirement--ERI.

[[Page H8884]]

 
                      Unfunded                                 [238,728]
                      requirement--grow
                      the Army.
014               LETHAL MINIATURE                               46,600
                   AERIAL MISSILE
                   SYSTEM (LMAMS.
                      Unfunded                                  [46,600]
                      requirement.
                  MODIFICATIONS
015               PATRIOT MODS.........         496,073         496,527
                      UFR: Procures                                [454]
                      additional ELES.
016               ATACMS MODS..........         186,040         186,040
017               GMLRS MOD............             531             531
018               STINGER MODS.........          63,090          91,890
                      UFR: Maximizes                            [28,800]
                      Stinger.
019               AVENGER MODS.........          62,931          62,931
020               ITAS/TOW MODS........           3,500           3,500
021               MLRS MODS............         138,235         187,035
                      UFR: Procures                             [48,800]
                      M270A1 MLRS
                      launchers.
022               HIMARS MODIFICATIONS.           9,566           9,566
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
023               SPARES AND REPAIR              18,915          18,915
                   PARTS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
024               AIR DEFENSE TARGETS..           5,728           5,728
026               PRODUCTION BASE                 1,189           1,189
                   SUPPORT.
                       TOTAL MISSILE          3,403,054       4,120,460
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
                   ARMY
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               BRADLEY PROGRAM......                         111,000
                      UFR: Recap 1                             [111,000]
                      Infantry
                      Battalion Set of
                      M2A4.
002               ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE         193,715         193,715
                   VEHICLE (AMPV).
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
004               STRYKER (MOD)........          97,552         274,552
                      UFR: Second SBCT                         [177,000]
                      set of 30mm.
005               STRYKER UPGRADE......                         348,000
                      Unfunded                                 [348,000]
                      requirement -
                      completes 4th DVH
                      SBCT.
006               BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)         444,851         444,851
007               M109 FOV                       64,230          64,230
                   MODIFICATIONS.
008               PALADIN INTEGRATED            646,413         646,413
                   MANAGEMENT (PIM).
009               IMPROVED RECOVERY              72,402         194,402
                   VEHICLE (M88A2
                   HERCULES).
                      UFR: Procures one                        [122,000]
                      ABCT set of
                      HERCULES (M88A2).
010               ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD).           5,855           5,855
011               ASSAULT BREACHER               34,221          64,221
                   VEHICLE.
                      UFR: Procures                             [30,000]
                      Assault Breacher
                      Vehicles, Combat
                      Dozer Blades,
                      Full Width Mine
                      Plows.
012               M88 FOV MODS.........           4,826           4,826
013               JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE.         128,350         128,350
014               M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD).         248,826         419,826
                      UFR: Completes                           [171,000]
                      the first Brigade
                      set of Trophy
                      (NDI APS) for
                      Abrams w/ ERI OCO
                      (1 APS Set).
015               ABRAMS UPGRADE                275,000         650,000
                   PROGRAM.
                      UFR:                                     [375,000]
                      Recapitalization
                      of 29 Abrams
                      tanks to
                      M1A2SEPv3.
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
018               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE             1,992           3,292
                   GUN (7.62MM).
                      UFR: Procures                              [1,300]
                      additional.
019               MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR           6,520          26,520
                   ANTI-PERSONNEL
                   WEAPON S.
                      UFR: Procures                             [20,000]
                      M3E1 light weight
                      Carl Gustaf
                      weapon systems.
020               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......          21,452          34,552
                      UFR: Procures                             [13,100]
                      M121 120mm
                      Mortars.
021               XM320 GRENADE                   4,524           5,323
                   LAUNCHER MODULE
                   (GLM).
                      UFR: Procures                                [799]
                      M320A1 40mm
                      Grenade Launchers.
023               CARBINE..............          43,150          51,150
                      UFR: Procures                              [8,000]
                      M4A1 carbines.
024               COMMON REMOTELY                   750          10,750
                   OPERATED WEAPONS
                   STATION.
                      UFR: Accelerate                           [10,000]
                      CROWS
                      modifications.
025               HANDGUN..............           8,326           8,704
                      UFR: Procures                                [378]
                      Modular Handgun
                      Systems.
                  MOD OF WEAPONS AND
                   OTHER COMBAT VEH
026               MK-19 GRENADE MACHINE           2,000           2,000
                   GUN MODS.
027               M777 MODS............           3,985          89,772
                      UFR: Funds M777                           [85,787]
                      lightweight towed
                      howitzers.
028               M4 CARBINE MODS......          31,315          31,315
029               M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN          47,414          52,364
                   MODS.
                      UFR: Procures                              [2,350]
                      M2A1 .50cal
                      machine.
                      UFR: Procures                              [2,600]
                      Mk93 MG mounts,
                      M2A1 .50cal MGs,
                      M205 tripods.
030               M249 SAW MACHINE GUN            3,339           3,339
                   MODS.
031               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE             4,577          11,159
                   GUN MODS.
                      UFR: Procures                              [6,582]
                      M192 tripods,
                      M240B 7.62mm,
                      M240L 7.62mm, Gun
                      Optics.
032               SNIPER RIFLES                   1,488           1,488
                   MODIFICATIONS.
033               M119 MODIFICATIONS...          12,678          12,678
034               MORTAR MODIFICATION..           3,998           3,998
035               MODIFICATIONS LESS              2,219           2,219
                   THAN $5.0M (WOCV-
                   WTCV).
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
036               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           5,075           7,775
                   (WOCV-WTCV).
                      UFR: Procures                              [2,700]
                      M150 Rifle Combat
                      Optic (RCO); M68
                      Close Combat
                      Optics (CCO).
037               PRODUCTION BASE                   992             992
                   SUPPORT (WOCV-WTCV).
039               SMALL ARMS EQUIPMENT            1,573           1,573
                   (SOLDIER ENH PROG).
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
042               UNDISTRIBUTED........                           1,200

[[Page H8885]]

 
                      Security Force                             [1,200]
                      Assistance
                      Brigade.
                       TOTAL                  2,423,608       3,912,404
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       W&TCV, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
001               CTG, 5.56MM, ALL               39,767          46,867
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                            [7,100]
                      ammunition.
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL               46,804          61,704
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                           [14,900]
                      ammunition.
003               CTG, HANDGUN, ALL              10,413          10,503
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                               [90]
                      ammunition.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL              62,837          71,727
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                            [8,890]
                      ammunition.
005               CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES.           8,208           8,208
006               CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES.           8,640          40,502
                      UFR: Additional                           [31,862]
                      ammunition.
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          76,850          79,000
                      UFR: Additional                            [2,150]
                      ammunition.
008               CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES.         108,189         125,380
                      UFR: Additional                           [17,191]
                      ammunition.
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
009               60MM MORTAR, ALL               57,359          59,859
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                            [2,500]
                      ammunition.
010               81MM MORTAR, ALL               49,471          52,580
                   TYPES.
                      Unfunded                                   [3,109]
                      requirement.
011               120MM MORTAR, ALL              91,528         109,720
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                           [18,192]
                      120mm.
                  TANK AMMUNITION
012               CARTRIDGES, TANK,             133,500         173,800
                   105MM AND 120MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                           [40,300]
                      Tank cartridge.
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
013               ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES,          44,200          44,200
                   75MM & 105MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
014               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,         187,149         346,330
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                          [159,181]
                      ammunition.
015               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED            49,000         232,500
                   RANGE M982.
                      UFR: Excalibur...                        [183,500]
016               ARTILLERY                      83,046         163,768
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                      UFR: Additional                           [48,601]
                      PGK, prop
                      charges,
                      artillery fuzes.
                      UFR: Required to                          [32,121]
                      execute
                      simultaneous
                      OPLAN.
                  MINES
017               MINES & CLEARING                3,942           6,942
                   CHARGES, ALL TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                            [3,000]
                      ammunition.
                  ROCKETS
019               SHOULDER LAUNCHED               5,000          66,881
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                           [61,881]
                      rockets, grenades.
020               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL         161,155         229,155
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                           [68,000]
                      APKWS.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
021               CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES...           7,441           7,441
022               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,          19,345          21,606
                   ALL TYPES.
                      UFR: Additional                            [2,261]
                      munitions.
023               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..          22,759          48,120
                      UFR: Additional                           [25,361]
                      ammunition.
024               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...           2,583           3,412
                      UFR: Additional                              [829]
                      signal munitions.
025               SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES          13,084          13,534
                      UFR: Additional                              [450]
                      signal munitions.
                  MISCELLANEOUS
026               AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL           12,237          12,237
                   TYPES.
027               NON-LETHAL                      1,500           1,650
                   AMMUNITION, ALL
                   TYPES.
                      UFR: Non-Lethal                              [150]
                      Hand Grenade
                      Munitions.
028               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             10,730          14,395
                   MILLION (AMMO).
                      UFR: Additional                            [3,665]
                      ammunition.
029               AMMUNITION PECULIAR            16,425          16,425
                   EQUIPMENT.
030               FIRST DESTINATION              15,221          15,221
                   TRANSPORTATION
                   (AMMO).
                  PRODUCTION BASE
                   SUPPORT
032               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES         329,356         429,356
                      UFR: Upgrade at                          [100,000]
                      GOCO Army
                      ammuntion plants.
033               CONVENTIONAL                  197,825         197,825
                   MUNITIONS
                   DEMILITARIZATION.
034               ARMS INITIATIVE......           3,719           3,719
                       TOTAL                  1,879,283       2,714,567
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
001               TACTICAL TRAILERS/              9,716           9,716
                   DOLLY SETS.
002               SEMITRAILERS,                  14,151          36,151
                   FLATBED:.
                      UFR: Procures 100                         [22,000]
                      % of equipment
                      shortage in
                      Europe for M872.
003               AMBULANCE, 4 LITTER,           53,000          68,000
                   5/4 TON, 4X4.
                      UFR: Procures                             [15,000]
                      HMMWV ambulances.
004               GROUND MOBILITY                40,935          40,935
                   VEHICLES (GMV).
006               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          804,440         804,440
                   VEHICLE.
007               TRUCK, DUMP, 20T                  967             967
                   (CCE).
008               FAMILY OF MEDIUM               78,650         241,944
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).

[[Page H8886]]

 
                      UFR: Procures                            [154,100]
                      vehicles.
                      Unfunded                                   [9,194]
                      requirement--trai
                      lers.
009               FIRETRUCKS &                   19,404          19,404
                   ASSOCIATED
                   FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.
010               FAMILY OF HEAVY                81,656          88,784
                   TACTICAL VEHICLES
                   (FHTV).
                      UFR: Procures                              [7,128]
                      Forward Repair
                      Systems (FRS).
011               PLS ESP..............           7,129          59,729
                      UFR: Provides                             [52,600]
                      transportion of
                      ammunition and
                      break-bulk cargo.
012               HVY EXPANDED MOBILE                           112,250
                   TACTICAL TRUCK EXT
                   SERV.
                      Unfunded                                 [112,250]
                      requirement.
013               TACTICAL WHEELED               43,040          43,040
                   VEHICLE PROTECTION
                   KITS.
014               MODIFICATION OF IN             83,940         157,792
                   SVC EQUIP.
                      UFR: Additional                           [73,852]
                      Buffalo and MMPV.
                  NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
016               HEAVY ARMORED SEDAN..             269             269
017               PASSENGER CARRYING              1,320           1,320
                   VEHICLES.
018               NONTACTICAL VEHICLES,           6,964           6,964
                   OTHER.
                  COMM--JOINT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
019               WIN-T--GROUND FORCES          420,492         420,492
                   TACTICAL NETWORK.
020               SIGNAL MODERNIZATION           92,718          92,718
                   PROGRAM.
021               TACTICAL NETWORK              150,497         227,997
                   TECHNOLOGY MOD IN
                   SVC.
                      Program reduction                        [-10,000]
                      Unfunded                                  [87,500]
                      requirement.
022               JOINT INCIDENT SITE             6,065           6,065
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   CAPABILITY.
023               JCSE EQUIPMENT                  5,051           5,051
                   (USREDCOM).
                  COMM--SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
024               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE            161,383         161,383
                   WIDEBAND SATCOM
                   SYSTEMS.
025               TRANSPORTABLE                  62,600          62,600
                   TACTICAL COMMAND
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
026               SHF TERM.............          11,622          11,622
028               SMART-T (SPACE)......           6,799           6,799
029               GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--             7,065           7,065
                   GBS.
031               ENROUTE MISSION                21,667          21,667
                   COMMAND (EMC).
                  COMM--COMBAT SUPPORT
                   COMM
033               MOD-IN-SERVICE                     70              70
                   PROFILER.
                  COMM--C3 SYSTEM
034               ARMY GLOBAL CMD &               2,658           2,658
                   CONTROL SYS (AGCCS).
                  COMM--COMBAT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
036               HANDHELD MANPACK              355,351         363,760
                   SMALL FORM FIT (HMS).
                      Unfunded                                   [8,409]
                      requirement.
037               MID-TIER NETWORKING            25,100          25,100
                   VEHICULAR RADIO
                   (MNVR).
038               RADIO TERMINAL SET,            11,160          11,160
                   MIDS LVT(2).
040               TRACTOR DESK.........           2,041           2,041
041               TRACTOR RIDE.........           5,534          13,734
                      UFR: Procurement                           [8,200]
                      of Offensive
                      Cyber Operations.
042               SPIDER APLA REMOTE                996             996
                   CONTROL UNIT.
043               SPIDER FAMILY OF                4,500           6,858
                   NETWORKED MUNITIONS
                   INCR.
                      UFR: Procures                              [2,358]
                      SPIDER INC 1A
                      systems.
045               TACTICAL                        4,411           4,411
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND
                   PROTECTIVE SYSTEM.
046               UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE          15,275          15,275
047               FAMILY OF MED COMM             15,964          15,964
                   FOR COMBAT CASUALTY
                   CARE.
                  COMM--INTELLIGENCE
                   COMM
049               CI AUTOMATION                   9,560           9,560
                   ARCHITECTURE.
050               DEFENSE MILITARY                4,030           4,030
                   DECEPTION INITIATIVE.
                  INFORMATION SECURITY
054               COMMUNICATIONS                107,804         130,667
                   SECURITY (COMSEC).
                      UFR: Security                             [22,863]
                      Data System and
                      End Cyrptographic
                      Units.
055               DEFENSIVE CYBER                53,436          61,436
                   OPERATIONS.
                      UFR: Funds                                 [8,000]
                      Deployable DCO
                      Systems for COMPO
                      2&3 Cyber
                      Protection Teams.
056               INSIDER THREAT                    690             690
                   PROGRAM--UNIT
                   ACTIVITY MONITO.
057               PERSISTENT CYBER                4,000           4,000
                   TRAINING ENVIRONMENT.
                  COMM--LONG HAUL
                   COMMUNICATIONS
058               BASE SUPPORT                   43,751          43,751
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                  COMM--BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
059               INFORMATION SYSTEMS..         118,101         118,101
060               EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT            4,490           4,490
                   MODERNIZATION
                   PROGRAM.
061               HOME STATION MISSION           20,050          20,050
                   COMMAND CENTERS
                   (HSMCC).
062               INSTALLATION INFO             186,251         186,251
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
065               JTT/CIBS-M...........          12,154          19,754
                      UFR: Procures                              [7,600]
                      critical spare
                      parts.
068               DCGS-A (MIP).........         274,782         274,782
070               TROJAN (MIP).........          16,052          29,212
                      UFR: Procures                             [13,160]
                      TROJAN SPIRIT.
071               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP            51,034          51,034
                   (INTEL SPT) (MIP).
072               CI HUMINT AUTO                  7,815           7,815
                   REPRTING AND
                   COLL(CHARCS).
073               CLOSE ACCESS TARGET             8,050           8,050
                   RECONNAISSANCE
                   (CATR).
074               MACHINE FOREIGN                   567             567
                   LANGUAGE TRANSLATION
                   SYSTEM-M.
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (EW)
076               LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER            20,459          20,459
                   MORTAR RADAR.
077               EW PLANNING &                   5,805           5,805
                   MANAGEMENT TOOLS
                   (EWPMT).
078               AIR VIGILANCE (AV)...           5,348           5,348
079               CREW.................                          17,500
                      Unfunded                                  [17,500]
                      requirement--EOD
                      DR SKOs.
080               FAMILY OF PERSISTENT                            5,000
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   CAPABILITIE.

[[Page H8887]]

 
                      Unfunded                                   [5,000]
                      requirement.
081               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/              469             469
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
082               CI MODERNIZATION.....             285             285
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
083               SENTINEL MODS........          28,491         100,491
                      UFR: Procures                             [72,000]
                      additional
                      Sentinal Radars.
084               NIGHT VISION DEVICES.         166,493         229,389
                      UFR: Accelerates                          [15,749]
                      fielding of the
                      LTLM.
                      Unfunded                                  [47,147]
                      requirement--grow
                      the Army.
085               SMALL TACTICAL                 13,947          16,097
                   OPTICAL RIFLE
                   MOUNTED MLRF.
                      UFR: Procures                              [2,150]
                      Small Tactical
                      Optical Rifle
                      Mounted laser
                      range finder.
087               INDIRECT FIRE                  21,380         598,613
                   PROTECTION FAMILY OF
                   SYSTEMS.
                      UFR: IFPC/                               [577,233]
                      Avernger
                      Battalions and
                      Warn Suites.
088               FAMILY OF WEAPON               59,105          59,105
                   SIGHTS (FWS).
089               ARTILLERY ACCURACY              2,129           2,129
                   EQUIP.
091               JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--        282,549         342,649
                   PLATFORM (JBC-P).
                      UFR: Replenishes                          [60,100]
                      Joint Battle
                      Command- Platform.
092               JOINT EFFECTS                  48,664          48,664
                   TARGETING SYSTEM
                   (JETS).
093               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             5,198           5,198
                   (LLDR).
094               COMPUTER BALLISTICS:            8,117           8,117
                   LHMBC XM32.
095               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL            31,813          47,513
                   SYSTEM.
                      UFR: Procures                             [15,700]
                      Mortar Fire
                      Control systems
                      (M95, M96).
096               COUNTERFIRE RADARS...         329,057         393,257
                      UFR: Procures AN/                         [64,200]
                      TPQ-53
                      Counterfire
                      Target
                      Acquisition Radar
                      System.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
097               FIRE SUPPORT C2                 8,700          13,458
                   FAMILY.
                      UFR: Additional                            [4,758]
                      Advanced Field
                      Artillery
                      Tactical Data
                      System (AFATDS).
098               AIR & MSL DEFENSE              26,635         123,613
                   PLANNING & CONTROL
                   SYS.
                      UFR: Supports                             [96,978]
                      fielding (AMD)
                      mission command
                      assets to a Army
                      Corps HQ.
100               LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE             1,992           1,992
                   SUPPORT (LCSS).
101               NETWORK MANAGEMENT             15,179          15,179
                   INITIALIZATION AND
                   SERVICE.
102               MANEUVER CONTROL              132,572         137,174
                   SYSTEM (MCS).
                      UFR: Tactical                              [4,602]
                      Mission Command
                      Equipment.
103               GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT          37,201          37,201
                   SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A).
104               INTEGRATED PERSONNEL           16,140          16,140
                   AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                   (IPP.
105               RECONNAISSANCE AND              6,093          20,848
                   SURVEYING INSTRUMENT
                   SET.
                      UFR: Procures                             [14,755]
                      Engineer
                      Instrument Set
                      Field
                      Reconnaissance
                      and Survey Kits.
106               MOD OF IN-SVC                   1,134           1,134
                   EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   AUTOMATION
107               ARMY TRAINING                  11,575          11,575
                   MODERNIZATION.
108               AUTOMATED DATA                 91,983          91,983
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
109               GENERAL FUND                    4,465           4,465
                   ENTERPRISE BUSINESS
                   SYSTEMS FAM.
110               HIGH PERF COMPUTING            66,363          66,363
                   MOD PGM (HPCMP).
111               CONTRACT WRITING                1,001           1,001
                   SYSTEM.
112               RESERVE COMPONENT              26,183          26,183
                   AUTOMATION SYS
                   (RCAS).
                  ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO
                   VISUAL SYS (A/V)
113               TACTICAL DIGITAL                4,441           4,441
                   MEDIA.
114               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M             3,414          16,414
                   (SURVEYING
                   EQUIPMENT).
                      UFR: Accelerate                            [3,000]
                      procurement of
                      Global
                      Positioning
                      System-Survey.
                      UFR: Procures                             [10,000]
                      Automated
                      Integrated Survey
                      Instrument (AISI)
                      systems.
                  ELECT EQUIP--SUPPORT
115               PRODUCTION BASE                   499             499
                   SUPPORT (C-E).
116               BCT EMERGING                   25,050          25,050
                   TECHNOLOGIES.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
116A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           4,819           4,819
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
117               PROTECTIVE SYSTEMS...           1,613           1,613
118               FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL            9,696           9,696
                   EQUIPMENT (FNLE).
120               CBRN DEFENSE.........          11,110          11,110
                  BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
121               TACTICAL BRIDGING....          16,610          16,610
122               TACTICAL BRIDGE,               21,761          43,761
                   FLOAT-RIBBON.
                      UFR: Procures                             [22,000]
                      Bridge Erection
                      Boats.
124               COMMON BRIDGE                  21,046          61,446
                   TRANSPORTER (CBT)
                   RECAP.
                      UFR: Procure                              [40,400]
                      Common Bridge
                      Transporters.
                  ENGINEER (NON-
                   CONSTRUCTION)
                   EQUIPMENT
125               HANDHELD STANDOFF               5,000          10,600
                   MINEFIELD DETECTION
                   SYS-HST.
                      UFR: Procures                              [5,600]
                      hand held mine
                      detectors.
126               GRND STANDOFF MINE             32,442          43,242
                   DETECTN SYSM
                   (GSTAMIDS).
                      UFR: Equipment                            [10,800]
                      for 15th and 16th
                      ABCT.
127               AREA MINE DETECTION            10,571          10,571
                   SYSTEM (AMDS).
128               HUSKY MOUNTED                  21,695          24,095
                   DETECTION SYSTEM
                   (HMDS).
                      UFR: Procures                              [2,400]
                      Husky Mounted
                      Detection System.
129               ROBOTIC COMBAT                  4,516          19,616
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (RCSS).
                      UFR: Procures                             [15,100]
                      M160s.
130               EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS           10,073          15,073
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
                      UFR: Procures the                          [5,000]
                      Talon 5A robot.
131               ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE           3,000           3,000
                   SYSTEMS.
133               REMOTE DEMOLITION               5,847           7,039
                   SYSTEMS.
                      UFR: Procures                              [1,192]
                      Radio Frequency
                      Remote Activated
                      Munitions.
134               < $5M, COUNTERMINE              1,530           1,530
                   EQUIPMENT.
135               FAMILY OF BOATS AND             4,302           4,302
                   MOTORS.
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT

[[Page H8888]]

 
136               HEATERS AND ECU'S....           7,405          16,461
                      UFR: Procures                              [9,056]
                      Improved
                      Environmental
                      Control Units.
137               SOLDIER ENHANCEMENT..           1,095           1,095
138               PERSONNEL RECOVERY              5,390           5,390
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (PRSS).
139               GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM          38,219          42,808
                      UFR: Procures                              [4,589]
                      NETT Warrior.
140               MOBILE SOLDIER POWER.          10,456          12,018
                      UFR: Procures                              [1,562]
                      ISPDS-C systems
                      for a Security
                      Forces Assistance
                      Bde.
142               FIELD FEEDING                  15,340          29,740
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      UFR: BCT support                          [14,400]
                      equipment.
143               CARGO AERIAL DEL &             30,607          30,607
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
144               FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT          10,426          18,900
                   AND CONSTRUCTION
                   SETS.
                      UFR: Engineering                           [8,474]
                      equipment.
                  PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
146               QUALITY SURVEILLANCE            6,903           6,903
                   EQUIPMENT.
147               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,          47,597          47,597
                   PETROLEUM & WATER.
                  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
148               COMBAT SUPPORT                 43,343          43,343
                   MEDICAL.
                  MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
149               MOBILE MAINTENANCE             33,774          47,070
                   EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS.
                      UFR: Shop                                 [13,296]
                      equipment.
150               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,728           3,682
                   (MAINT EQ).
                      UFR: Additional                              [954]
                      equipment for
                      growing Army.
                  CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT
151               GRADER, ROAD MTZD,                989          15,719
                   HVY, 6X4 (CCE).
                      UFR: Procures 48                          [14,730]
                      Graders for the
                      16th ABCT.
152               SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING          11,180          11,180
154               TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED                          48,679
                      Unfunded                                  [48,679]
                      requirement--T9
                      Dozers.
155               ALL TERRAIN CRANES...           8,935          11,935
                      UFR: Procures                              [3,000]
                      cranes to support
                      bridging assets.
157               HIGH MOBILITY                  64,339          84,899
                   ENGINEER EXCAVATOR
                   (HMEE).
                      UFR: Procures                             [20,560]
                      HMEE for the 16th
                      ABCT.
158               ENHANCED RAPID                  2,563           2,563
                   AIRFIELD
                   CONSTRUCTION CAPAP.
160               CONST EQUIP ESP......          19,032          26,032
                      UFR: Procures                              [7,000]
                      Engineer Mission
                      Module--Water
                      Distributors and
                      31 Vibratory
                      Rollers.
161               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           6,899          11,911
                   (CONST EQUIP).
                      UFR: Procures 2                            [5,012]
                      Vibratory Plate
                      Compactors (VPC)
                      for the 16th ABCT.
                  RAIL FLOAT
                   CONTAINERIZATION
                   EQUIPMENT
162               ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP..          20,110          20,110
163               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,877           2,877
                   (FLOAT/RAIL).
                  GENERATORS
164               GENERATORS AND                115,635         132,845
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
                      UFR: Additional                           [17,210]
                      equipment for
                      growing Army.
165               TACTICAL ELECTRIC               7,436           7,436
                   POWER
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
166               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..           9,000          10,635
                      UFR: Procures                              [1,635]
                      additonal 5K
                      LCRTF.
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
167               COMBAT TRAINING                88,888         126,638
                   CENTERS SUPPORT.
                      Unfunded                                  [37,750]
                      requirement.
168               TRAINING DEVICES,             285,989         285,989
                   NONSYSTEM.
169               CLOSE COMBAT TACTICAL          45,718          45,718
                   TRAINER.
170               AVIATION COMBINED              30,568          30,568
                   ARMS TACTICAL
                   TRAINER.
171               GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN            5,406           5,406
                   SUPPORT OF ARMY
                   TRAINING.
                  TEST MEASURE AND DIG
                   EQUIPMENT (TMD)
172               CALIBRATION SETS                5,564           5,564
                   EQUIPMENT.
173               INTEGRATED FAMILY OF           30,144          30,144
                   TEST EQUIPMENT
                   (IFTE).
174               TEST EQUIPMENT                  7,771           7,771
                   MODERNIZATION
                   (TEMOD).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
175               M25 STABILIZED                  3,956           3,956
                   BINOCULAR.
176               RAPID EQUIPPING                 5,000          10,000
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      UFR: Support 10                            [5,000]
                      initiatives per
                      year.
177               PHYSICAL SECURITY              60,047          60,047
                   SYSTEMS (OPA3).
178               BASE LEVEL COMMON              13,239          13,239
                   EQUIPMENT.
179               MODIFICATION OF IN-            60,192          99,432
                   SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA-
                   3).
                      UFR: Additional                           [39,240]
                      support equipment.
180               PRODUCTION BASE                 2,271           2,271
                   SUPPORT (OTH).
181               SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR           5,319           5,319
                   USER TESTING.
182               TRACTOR YARD.........           5,935           5,935
                  OPA2
184               INITIAL SPARES--C&E..          38,269          38,269
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
185               UNDISTRIBUTED........                          56,000
                      Security Force                            [56,000]
                      Assistance
                      Brigade.
                       TOTAL OTHER            6,469,331       8,485,056
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  JOINT IMPROVISED-
                   THREAT DEFEAT FUND
                  NETWORK ATTACK
001               RAPID ACQUISITION AND          14,442          14,442
                   THREAT RESPONSE.
                       TOTAL JOINT               14,442          14,442
                       IMPROVISED-
                       THREAT DEFEAT
                       FUND.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY

[[Page H8889]]

 
                  COMBAT AIRCRAFT
002               F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER)         1,200,146       1,939,146
                   HORNET.
                      UFR: Additional F/                       [739,000]
                      A-18 E/F Super
                      Hornets.
003                  ADVANCE                     52,971          52,971
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
004               JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER          582,324       1,382,324
                   CV.
                      UFR: Additional F-                       [540,000]
                      35C (Navy).
                      UFR: Additional F-                       [260,000]
                      35C (USMC).
005                  ADVANCE                    263,112         263,112
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
006               JSF STOVL............       2,398,139       2,923,739
                      UFR: Additional F-                       [525,600]
                      35B.
007                  ADVANCE                    413,450         413,450
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT)..         567,605         567,605
009                  ADVANCE                    147,046         147,046
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
010               V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)...         677,404       1,199,404
                      UFR: Additional                          [166,000]
                      MV-22/V-22.
                      UFR: Additional                          [356,000]
                      MV-22B.
011                  ADVANCE                     27,422          27,422
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
012               H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/          678,429         898,929
                   AH-1Z).
                      UFR: Additional                          [220,500]
                      AH-1Z.
013                  ADVANCE                     42,082          42,082
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
016               P-8A POSEIDON........       1,245,251       1,751,751
                      UFR: Additional P-                       [506,500]
                      8A Poseidon.
017                  ADVANCE                    140,333         140,333
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
018               E-2D ADV HAWKEYE.....         733,910         733,910
019                  ADVANCE                    102,026         102,026
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
022               KC-130J..............         129,577         484,877
                      UFR: Additional                          [355,300]
                      KC-130J.
023                  ADVANCE                     25,497          25,497
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
024               MQ-4 TRITON..........         522,126         517,126
                      Excess cost                               [-5,000]
                      growth.
025                  ADVANCE                     57,266          57,266
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
026               MQ-8 UAV.............          49,472          49,472
027               STUASL0 UAV..........             880          60,080
                      UFR: Procure                              [59,200]
                      additional
                      aircraft.
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
030               AEA SYSTEMS..........          52,960          52,960
031               AV-8 SERIES..........          43,555          43,555
032               ADVERSARY............           2,565           2,565
033               F-18 SERIES..........       1,043,661         992,211
                      F/A-18 Infrared                         [-100,000]
                      Search and Track
                      (IRST) Block 1
                      system.
                      UFR: ALQ-214 USMC                         [32,550]
                      Retrofit.
                      UFR: ALR-67                               [16,000]
                      Retrofit A-KITS
                      and Partial B-
                      Kits.
034               H-53 SERIES..........          38,712          38,712
035               SH-60 SERIES.........          95,333          95,333
036               H-1 SERIES...........         101,886         101,886
037               EP-3 SERIES..........           7,231           7,231
038               P-3 SERIES...........             700             700
039               E-2 SERIES...........          97,563          97,563
040               TRAINER A/C SERIES...           8,184           8,184
041               C-2A.................          18,673          18,673
042               C-130 SERIES.........          83,541          83,541
043               FEWSG................             630             630
044               CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C            10,075          10,075
                   SERIES.
045               E-6 SERIES...........         223,508         223,508
046               EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS          38,787          38,787
                   SERIES.
047               SPECIAL PROJECT                 8,304           8,304
                   AIRCRAFT.
048               T-45 SERIES..........         148,071         148,071
049               POWER PLANT CHANGES..          19,827          19,827
050               JPATS SERIES.........          27,007          27,007
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.         146,642         146,642
052               COMMON AVIONICS               123,507         123,507
                   CHANGES.
053               COMMON DEFENSIVE                2,317           2,317
                   WEAPON SYSTEM.
054               ID SYSTEMS...........          49,524          49,524
055               P-8 SERIES...........          18,665          18,665
056               MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION          10,111          10,111
057               MQ-8 SERIES..........          32,361          32,361
059               V-22 (TILT/ROTOR              228,321         228,321
                   ACFT) OSPREY.
060               F-35 STOVL SERIES....          34,963          34,963
061               F-35 CV SERIES.......          31,689          31,689
062               QRC..................          24,766          24,766
063               MQ-4 SERIES..........          39,996          39,996
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
064               SPARES AND REPAIR           1,681,914       1,882,514
                   PARTS.
                      UFR: F-35B Spares                         [32,600]
                      UFR: Fund to max                         [168,000]
                      executable.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
065               COMMON GROUND                 388,052         405,552
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      UFR: F/A-18C/D                            [17,500]
                      Training Systems.
066               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL            24,613          24,613
                   FACILITIES.
067               WAR CONSUMABLES......          39,614          39,614
068               OTHER PRODUCTION                1,463           1,463
                   CHARGES.
069               SPECIAL SUPPORT                48,500          48,500
                   EQUIPMENT.

[[Page H8890]]

 
070               FIRST DESTINATION               1,976           1,976
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        15,056,235      18,945,985
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
001               TRIDENT II MODS......       1,143,595       1,143,595
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
002               MISSILE INDUSTRIAL              7,086           7,086
                   FACILITIES.
                  STRATEGIC MISSILES
003               TOMAHAWK.............         134,375         134,375
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
004               AMRAAM...............         197,109         209,109
                      UFR: Munitions                            [12,000]
                      Wholeness.
005               SIDEWINDER...........          79,692          79,692
006               JSOW.................           5,487           5,487
007               STANDARD MISSILE.....         510,875         510,875
008               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB            20,968          20,968
                   II.
009               RAM..................          58,587         106,587
                      UFR: Additional                           [48,000]
                      RAM BLK II.
010               JOINT AIR GROUND                3,789           3,789
                   MISSILE (JAGM).
013               STAND OFF PRECISION             3,122          12,522
                   GUIDED MUNITIONS
                   (SOPGM).
                      UFR: AGM-176A                              [9,400]
                      Griffin Missile
                      Qualifications.
014               AERIAL TARGETS.......         124,757         124,757
015               OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT           3,420           3,420
016               LRASM................          74,733          74,733
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
017               ESSM.................          74,524          74,524
019               HARPOON MODS.........          17,300          17,300
020               HARM MODS............         183,368         183,368
021               STANDARD MISSILES              11,729          11,729
                   MODS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
022               WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL              4,021           4,021
                   FACILITIES.
023               FLEET SATELLITE COMM           46,357          46,357
                   FOLLOW-ON.
                  ORDNANCE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
025               ORDNANCE SUPPORT               47,159          47,159
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  TORPEDOES AND RELATED
                   EQUIP
026               SSTD.................           5,240           5,240
027               MK-48 TORPEDO........          44,771          70,871
                      MK 48 HWT........                         [26,100]
028               ASW TARGETS..........          12,399          12,399
                  MOD OF TORPEDOES AND
                   RELATED EQUIP
029               MK-54 TORPEDO MODS...         104,044         104,044
030               MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP            38,954          38,954
                   MODS.
031               QUICKSTRIKE MINE.....          10,337          10,337
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
032               TORPEDO SUPPORT                70,383          70,383
                   EQUIPMENT.
033               ASW RANGE SUPPORT....           3,864           3,864
                  DESTINATION
                   TRANSPORTATION
034               FIRST DESTINATION               3,961           3,961
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
035               SMALL ARMS AND                 11,332          11,332
                   WEAPONS.
                  MODIFICATION OF GUNS
                   AND GUN MOUNTS
036               CIWS MODS............          72,698          72,698
037               COAST GUARD WEAPONS..          38,931          38,931
038               GUN MOUNT MODS.......          76,025          76,025
039               LCS MODULE WEAPONS...          13,110          13,110
040               CRUISER MODERNIZATION          34,825          34,825
                   WEAPONS.
041               AIRBORNE MINE                  16,925          16,925
                   NEUTRALIZATION
                   SYSTEMS.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
043               SPARES AND REPAIR             110,255         110,255
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL WEAPONS          3,420,107       3,515,607
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          34,882          34,882
002               JDAM.................          57,343          57,343
003               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL          79,318          79,318
                   TYPES.
004               MACHINE GUN                    14,112          14,112
                   AMMUNITION.
005               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          47,027          47,027
006               CARTRIDGES & CART              57,718          57,718
                   ACTUATED DEVICES.
007               AIR EXPENDABLE                 65,908          65,908
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
008               JATOS................           2,895           2,895
010               5 INCH/54 GUN                  22,112          22,112
                   AMMUNITION.
011               INTERMEDIATE CALIBER           12,804          12,804
                   GUN AMMUNITION.
012               OTHER SHIP GUN                 41,594          41,594
                   AMMUNITION.
013               SMALL ARMS & LANDING           49,401          49,401
                   PARTY AMMO.
014               PYROTECHNIC AND                 9,495           9,495
                   DEMOLITION.
016               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            3,080           3,080
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
019               60MM, ALL TYPES......                          11,000
                      Unfunded                                  [11,000]
                      requirement--Full
                      range practice
                      rounds.
020               MORTARS..............          24,118          24,118
021               81MM, ALL TYPES......                          14,500

[[Page H8891]]

 
                      Unfunded                                  [14,500]
                      requirement--Full
                      range practice
                      rounds.
023               DIRECT SUPPORT                 64,045          64,045
                   MUNITIONS.
024               INFANTRY WEAPONS               91,456          91,456
                   AMMUNITION.
027               ARTILLERY, ALL TYPES.                          17,000
                      Unfunded                                  [17,000]
                      requirement--HE
                      Training Rounds.
029               COMBAT SUPPORT                 11,788          11,788
                   MUNITIONS.
032               AMMO MODERNIZATION...          17,862          17,862
033               ARTILLERY MUNITIONS..          79,427          79,427
034               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,960           5,960
                   MILLION.
                       TOTAL                    792,345         834,845
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  SHIPBUILDING AND
                   CONVERSION, NAVY
                  FLEET BALLISTIC
                   MISSILE SHIPS
001                  ADVANCE                    842,853         842,853
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  OTHER WARSHIPS
002               CARRIER REPLACEMENT         4,441,772       4,441,772
                   PROGRAM.
004               VIRGINIA CLASS              3,305,315       3,305,315
                   SUBMARINE.
005                  ADVANCE                  1,920,596       2,618,596
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      3rd FY20 SSN, EOQ                        [698,000]
                      or SIB expansion.
006               CVN REFUELING               1,604,890       1,569,669
                   OVERHAULS.
                      AN/SPN-46                                 [-3,126]
                      overhaul/upgrade
                      cost growth.
                      AN/SPQ-9B radar                           [-2,746]
                      unjustified
                      request.
                      IFF interrogator                          [-2,094]
                      set unjustified
                      request.
                      JPALS cost growth                           [-555]
                      UCLASS early to                          [-26,700]
                      need.
007                  ADVANCE                     75,897          75,897
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               DDG 1000.............         223,968         173,968
                      Unjustified cost                         [-50,000]
                      growth.
009               DDG-51...............       3,499,079       5,283,079
                      1 additional DDG                       [1,750,000]
                      for FY18-22 MYP
                      contract.
                      Ship Signal                               [34,000]
                      Exploitation
                      Equipment.
010                  ADVANCE                     90,336         340,336
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      EOQ for FY18-22                          [250,000]
                      MYP contract.
011               LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.         636,146       1,536,146
                      LCS..............                        [900,000]
                  AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
013               LPD-17...............                       1,500,000
                      LX(R) or LPD-30..                      [1,500,000]
014               EXPEDITIONARY SEA                             635,000
                   BASE (ESB).
                      ESB..............                        [635,000]
015               LHA REPLACEMENT......       1,710,927       1,710,927
                  AUXILIARIES, CRAFT
                   AND PRIOR YR PROGRAM
                   COST
018               TAO FLEET OILER......         465,988         465,988
019                  ADVANCE                     75,068          75,068
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
020               TOWING, SALVAGE, AND           76,204          76,204
                   RESCUE SHIP (ATS).
023               LCU 1700.............          31,850          31,850
024               OUTFITTING...........         548,703         542,626
                      Virginia class                            [-1,689]
                      outfitting cost
                      growth.
                      Virginia class                            [-4,388]
                      post-delivery
                      cost growth.
025               SHIP TO SHORE                 212,554         524,554
                   CONNECTOR.
                      UFR: 5 additional                        [312,000]
                      Ship-to-Shore
                      Connector.
026               SERVICE CRAFT........          23,994          62,994
                      UFR: Berthing                             [39,000]
                      barge.
029               COMPLETION OF PY              117,542         117,542
                   SHIPBUILDING
                   PROGRAMS.
032               CABLE SHIP...........                         250,000
                      Procure cable                            [250,000]
                      ship.
                       TOTAL                 19,903,682      26,180,384
                       SHIPBUILDING AND
                       CONVERSION, NAVY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  SHIP PROPULSION
                   EQUIPMENT
003               SURFACE POWER                  41,910          41,910
                   EQUIPMENT.
004               HYBRID ELECTRIC DRIVE           6,331           6,331
                   (HED).
                  GENERATORS
005               SURFACE COMBATANT              27,392          27,392
                   HM&E.
                  NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
006               OTHER NAVIGATION               65,943          65,943
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  PERISCOPES
007               SUB PERISCOPES &                               29,000
                   IMAGING EQUIP.
                      Submarine Warfare                         [29,000]
                      Federated Tactial
                      Systems.
                  OTHER SHIPBOARD
                   EQUIPMENT
008               SUB PERISCOPE,                151,240         151,240
                   IMAGING AND SUPT
                   EQUIP PROG.
009               DDG MOD..............         603,355         650,864
                      AWS upgrade kits                          [-4,526]
                      unit cost growth.
                      Conjunctive                               [-5,185]
                      alteration
                      definition and
                      integration
                      previously funded.
                      Destroyer                                 [65,000]
                      modernization.
                      DM013                                     [-6,780]
                      installation
                      insufficient
                      budget
                      justification.
                      DVSS and wireless                         [-1,000]
                      communications
                      equipment
                      insufficient
                      budget
                      justification.
010               FIREFIGHTING                   15,887          15,887
                   EQUIPMENT.
011               COMMAND AND CONTROL             2,240           2,240
                   SWITCHBOARD.
012               LHA/LHD MIDLIFE......          30,287          30,287
014               POLLUTION CONTROL              17,293          17,293
                   EQUIPMENT.
015               SUBMARINE SUPPORT              27,990          27,990
                   EQUIPMENT.
016               VIRGINIA CLASS                 46,610          46,610
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.

[[Page H8892]]

 
017               LCS CLASS SUPPORT              47,955          47,955
                   EQUIPMENT.
018               SUBMARINE BATTERIES..          17,594          17,594
019               LPD CLASS SUPPORT              61,908          61,908
                   EQUIPMENT.
021               STRATEGIC PLATFORM             15,812          15,812
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
022               DSSP EQUIPMENT.......           4,178           4,178
023               CG MODERNIZATION.....         306,050         306,050
024               LCAC.................           5,507           5,507
025               UNDERWATER EOD                 55,922          55,922
                   PROGRAMS.
026               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             96,909          96,909
                   MILLION.
027               CHEMICAL WARFARE                3,036           3,036
                   DETECTORS.
028               SUBMARINE LIFE                 10,364          10,364
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
                  REACTOR PLANT
                   EQUIPMENT
029               REACTOR POWER UNITS..         324,925         324,925
030               REACTOR COMPONENTS...         534,468         534,468
                  OCEAN ENGINEERING
031               DIVING AND SALVAGE             10,619          10,619
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SMALL BOATS
032               STANDARD BOATS.......          46,094          46,094
                  PRODUCTION FACILITIES
                   EQUIPMENT
034               OPERATING FORCES IPE.         191,541         191,541
                  OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
036               LCS COMMON MISSION             34,666          34,666
                   MODULES EQUIPMENT.
037               LCS MCM MISSION                55,870          89,870
                   MODULES.
                      UFR: Additional                           [34,000]
                      MCM USV.
039               LCS SUW MISSION                52,960          52,960
                   MODULES.
040               LCS IN-SERVICE                 74,426         158,426
                   MODERNIZATION.
                      LCS Modernization                         [84,000]
                  LOGISTIC SUPPORT
042               LSD MIDLIFE &                  89,536          49,536
                   MODERNIZATION.
                      Contract cost                            [-40,000]
                      savings.
                  SHIP SONARS
043               SPQ-9B RADAR.........          30,086          20,086
                      Program                                  [-10,000]
                      underexecution.
044               AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW            102,222         102,222
                   COMBAT SYSTEM.
046               SSN ACOUSTIC                  287,553         287,553
                   EQUIPMENT.
047               UNDERSEA WARFARE               13,653          13,653
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
                  ASW ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
049               SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC             21,449          21,449
                   WARFARE SYSTEM.
050               SSTD.................          12,867          12,867
051               FIXED SURVEILLANCE            300,102         300,102
                   SYSTEM.
052               SURTASS..............          30,180          40,180
                      UFR: 1 Additional                         [10,000]
                  ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   EQUIPMENT
054               AN/SLQ-32............         240,433         240,433
                  RECONNAISSANCE
                   EQUIPMENT
055               SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT.         187,007         227,007
                      UFR: 3 SSEE                               [40,000]
                      Increment F and
                      Paragon/Graywing.
056               AUTOMATED                         510             510
                   IDENTIFICATION
                   SYSTEM (AIS).
                  OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
058               COOPERATIVE                    23,892          23,892
                   ENGAGEMENT
                   CAPABILITY.
060               NAVAL TACTICAL                 10,741          10,741
                   COMMAND SUPPORT
                   SYSTEM (NTCSS).
061               ATDLS................          38,016          38,016
062               NAVY COMMAND AND                4,512           4,512
                   CONTROL SYSTEM
                   (NCCS).
063               MINESWEEPING SYSTEM            31,531          31,531
                   REPLACEMENT.
064               SHALLOW WATER MCM....           8,796           8,796
065               NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS          15,923          15,923
                   (SPACE).
066               AMERICAN FORCES RADIO           2,730           2,730
                   AND TV SERVICE.
067               STRATEGIC PLATFORM              6,889           6,889
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  AVIATION ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
070               ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT.          71,882          71,882
071               AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT.          44,611          44,611
077               ID SYSTEMS...........          21,239          21,239
078               NAVAL MISSION                  11,976          11,976
                   PLANNING SYSTEMS.
                  OTHER SHORE
                   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
080               TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I            32,425          32,425
                   SYSTEMS.
081               DCGS-N...............          13,790          13,790
082               CANES................         322,754         322,754
083               RADIAC...............          10,718          10,718
084               CANES-INTELL.........          48,028          48,028
085               GPETE................           6,861           6,861
086               MASF.................           8,081           8,081
087               INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM             5,019           5,019
                   TEST FACILITY.
088               EMI CONTROL                     4,188           4,188
                   INSTRUMENTATION.
089               ITEMS LESS THAN $5            105,292         105,292
                   MILLION.
                  SHIPBOARD
                   COMMUNICATIONS
090               SHIPBOARD TACTICAL             23,695          23,695
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
091               SHIP COMMUNICATIONS           103,990         103,990
                   AUTOMATION.
092               COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS           18,577          18,577
                   UNDER $5M.
                  SUBMARINE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
093               SUBMARINE BROADCAST            29,669          29,669
                   SUPPORT.
094               SUBMARINE                      86,204          86,204
                   COMMUNICATION
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
095               SATELLITE                      14,654          14,654
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   SYSTEMS.

[[Page H8893]]

 
096               NAVY MULTIBAND                 69,764          69,764
                   TERMINAL (NMT).
                  SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
097               JOINT COMMUNICATIONS            4,256           4,256
                   SUPPORT ELEMENT
                   (JCSE).
                  CRYPTOGRAPHIC
                   EQUIPMENT
099               INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY          89,663          89,663
                   PROGRAM (ISSP).
100               MIO INTEL                         961             961
                   EXPLOITATION TEAM.
                  CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
101               CRYPTOLOGIC                    11,287          11,287
                   COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP.
                  OTHER ELECTRONIC
                   SUPPORT
110               COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT          36,584          36,584
                  SONOBUOYS
112               SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES.         173,616         173,616
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
113               WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT          72,110          72,110
                   EQUIPMENT.
114               AIRCRAFT SUPPORT              108,482         108,482
                   EQUIPMENT.
115               ADVANCED ARRESTING             10,900          10,900
                   GEAR (AAG).
116               METEOROLOGICAL                 21,137          21,137
                   EQUIPMENT.
117               DCRS/DPL.............             660             660
118               AIRBORNE MINE                  20,605          20,605
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
119               AVIATION SUPPORT               34,032          34,032
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP GUN SYSTEM
                   EQUIPMENT
120               SHIP GUN SYSTEMS                5,277           5,277
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS
                   EQUIPMENT
121               SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT          272,359         272,359
                   EQUIPMENT.
122               TOMAHAWK SUPPORT               73,184          73,184
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
123               STRATEGIC MISSILE             246,221         246,221
                   SYSTEMS EQUIP.
                  ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
124               SSN COMBAT CONTROL            129,972         129,972
                   SYSTEMS.
125               ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          23,209          23,209
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
126               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             15,596          15,596
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
127               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,981           5,981
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER EXPENDABLE
                   ORDNANCE
128               SUBMARINE TRAINING             74,550          74,550
                   DEVICE MODS.
130               SURFACE TRAINING               83,022          83,022
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
131               PASSENGER CARRYING              5,299           5,299
                   VEHICLES.
132               GENERAL PURPOSE                 2,946           2,946
                   TRUCKS.
133               CONSTRUCTION &                 34,970          34,970
                   MAINTENANCE EQUIP.
134               FIRE FIGHTING                   2,541           2,541
                   EQUIPMENT.
135               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          19,699          19,699
136               AMPHIBIOUS EQUIPMENT.          12,162          12,162
137               POLLUTION CONTROL               2,748           2,748
                   EQUIPMENT.
138               ITEMS UNDER $5                 18,084          18,084
                   MILLION.
139               PHYSICAL SECURITY               1,170           1,170
                   VEHICLES.
                  SUPPLY SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
141               SUPPLY EQUIPMENT.....          21,797          21,797
143               FIRST DESTINATION               5,572           5,572
                   TRANSPORTATION.
144               SPECIAL PURPOSE               482,916         482,916
                   SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
                  TRAINING DEVICES
146               TRAINING AND                   25,624          25,624
                   EDUCATION EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
147               COMMAND SUPPORT                59,076          55,765
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Consolidate                               [-3,311]
                      requirements Navy
                      Enterprise
                      Resource Planning.
149               MEDICAL SUPPORT                 4,383           4,383
                   EQUIPMENT.
151               NAVAL MIP SUPPORT               2,030           2,030
                   EQUIPMENT.
152               OPERATING FORCES                7,500           7,500
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
153               C4ISR EQUIPMENT......           4,010           4,010
154               ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT          23,644          23,644
                   EQUIPMENT.
155               PHYSICAL SECURITY             101,982         101,982
                   EQUIPMENT.
156               ENTERPRISE                     19,789          19,789
                   INFORMATION
                   TECHNOLOGY.
                  OTHER
160               NEXT GENERATION               104,584         104,584
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICE.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
161A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          23,707          23,707
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
161               SPARES AND REPAIR             278,565         278,565
                   PARTS.
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
162               UNDISTRIBUTED........                          50,000
                      Classified                                [50,000]
                      Project 0428.
                       TOTAL OTHER            8,277,789       8,518,987
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               AAV7A1 PIP...........         107,665         107,665
002               AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT             161,511         161,511
                   VEHICLE 1.1.
003               LAV PIP..............          17,244          17,244
                  ARTILLERY AND OTHER
                   WEAPONS
004               EXPEDITIONARY FIRE                626             626
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
005               155MM LIGHTWEIGHT              20,259          20,259
                   TOWED HOWITZER.
006               HIGH MOBILITY                  59,943          59,943
                   ARTILLERY ROCKET
                   SYSTEM.
007               WEAPONS AND COMBAT             19,616          19,616
                   VEHICLES UNDER $5
                   MILLION.

[[Page H8894]]

 
                  OTHER SUPPORT
008               MODIFICATION KITS....          17,778          17,778
                  GUIDED MISSILES
010               GROUND BASED AIR                9,432           9,432
                   DEFENSE.
011               JAVELIN..............          41,159          41,159
012               FOLLOW ON TO SMAW....          25,125          25,125
013               ANTI-ARMOR WEAPONS             51,553          51,553
                   SYSTEM-HEAVY (AAWS-
                   H).
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEMS
016               COMMON AVIATION                44,928          44,928
                   COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (C.
                  REPAIR AND TEST
                   EQUIPMENT
017               REPAIR AND TEST                33,056          33,056
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
020               ITEMS UNDER $5                 17,644          37,844
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
                      UFR: Night Optics                         [20,200]
                      for Sniper Rifle.
021               AIR OPERATIONS C2              18,393          18,393
                   SYSTEMS.
                  RADAR + EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
022               RADAR SYSTEMS........          12,411          12,411
023               GROUND/AIR TASK               139,167         139,167
                   ORIENTED RADAR (G/
                   ATOR).
024               RQ-21 UAS............          77,841          77,841
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
025               GCSS-MC..............           1,990           1,990
026               FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM..          22,260          22,260
027               INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT           55,759          55,759
                   EQUIPMENT.
029               UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS           10,154          23,654
                   (INTEL).
                      UFR: Long                                 [13,500]
                      Endurance Small
                      UAS.
030               DCGS-MC..............          13,462          13,462
031               UAS PAYLOADS.........          14,193          14,193
                  OTHER SUPPORT (NON-
                   TEL)
035               NEXT GENERATION                98,511          98,511
                   ENTERPRISE NETWORK
                   (NGEN).
036               COMMON COMPUTER                66,894          66,894
                   RESOURCES.
037               COMMAND POST SYSTEMS.         186,912         206,912
                      Additional NOTM-A                         [20,000]
                      Systems for
                      emerging
                      operational
                      requirements.
038               RADIO SYSTEMS........          34,361          34,361
039               COMM SWITCHING &               54,615          54,615
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
040               COMM & ELEC                    44,455          44,455
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
                   SUPPORT.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
040A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           4,214           4,214
                  ADMINISTRATIVE
                   VEHICLES
042               COMMERCIAL CARGO               66,951          66,951
                   VEHICLES.
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
043               MOTOR TRANSPORT                21,824          21,824
                   MODIFICATIONS.
044               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          233,639         233,639
                   VEHICLE.
045               FAMILY OF TACTICAL              1,938           1,938
                   TRAILERS.
046               TRAILERS.............          10,282          10,282
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
048               ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL           1,405           1,405
                   EQUIP ASSORT.
050               TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS           1,788           1,788
051               POWER EQUIPMENT                 9,910           9,910
                   ASSORTED.
052               AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT              5,830           5,830
                   EQUIPMENT.
053               EOD SYSTEMS..........          27,240          27,240
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
054               PHYSICAL SECURITY              53,477          53,477
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  GENERAL PROPERTY
056               TRAINING DEVICES.....          76,185          85,064
                      UFR: ITESS-II                              [8,879]
                      Force on Force
                      Training System.
058               FAMILY OF                      26,286          26,286
                   CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT.
059               FAMILY OF INTERNALLY            1,583           1,583
                   TRANSPORTABLE VEH
                   (ITV).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
060               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              7,716           7,716
                   MILLION.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
062               SPARES AND REPAIR              35,640          35,640
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL                  2,064,825       2,127,404
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL FORCES
001               F-35.................       4,544,684       5,634,684
                      Additional                                [60,000]
                      Tooling in
                      Support of
                      Unfunded Priority.
                      UFR: Procure                           [1,030,000]
                      additional F-35As.
002                  ADVANCE                    780,300         780,300
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
002A              O/A-X LIGHT ATTACK                            400,000
                   FIGHTER.
                      O/A-X Light                              [400,000]
                      Attack Fighter.
                  TACTICAL AIRLIFT
003               KC-46A TANKER........       2,545,674       2,945,674
                      UFR: Procure KC-                         [400,000]
                      46.
                  OTHER AIRLIFT
004               C-130J...............          57,708         159,708
                      Technical                                [102,000]
                      adjustments for
                      Weapon System
                      Trainers.
006               HC-130J..............         198,502         298,502
                      UFR: Procure HC-                         [100,000]
                      130s.
008               MC-130J..............         379,373         979,373
                      UFR: Procures MC-                        [600,000]
                      130s.
009                  ADVANCE                     30,000          30,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MISSION SUPPORT
                   AIRCRAFT

[[Page H8895]]

 
012               CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C.           2,695           2,695
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
014               TARGET DRONES........         109,841         109,841
017               MQ-9.................         117,141         117,141
017A              COMPASS CALL.........                         108,173
                      Technical                                [108,173]
                      adjustment.
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
018               B-2A.................          96,727          96,727
019               B-1B.................         155,634         121,634
                      Excess funding...                        [-34,000]
020               B-52.................         109,295         109,295
021               LARGE AIRCRAFT                  4,046           4,046
                   INFRARED
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
022               A-10.................           6,010         109,010
                      UFR: A-10 Wings..                        [103,000]
023               F-15.................         417,193         417,193
024               F-16.................         203,864         203,864
025               F-22A................         161,630         161,630
026                  ADVANCE                     15,000          15,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
027               F-35 MODIFICATIONS...          68,270          68,270
028               INCREMENT 3.2B.......         105,756         105,756
030               KC-46A TANKER........           6,213           6,213
                  AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
031               C-5..................          36,592          36,592
032               C-5M.................           6,817           6,817
033               C-17A................         125,522         125,522
034               C-21.................          13,253          13,253
035               C-32A................          79,449          79,449
036               C-37A................          15,423          15,423
037               C-130J...............          10,727               0
                      Technical                                [-10,727]
                      adjustments.
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
038               GLIDER MODS..........             136             136
039               T-6..................          35,706          35,706
040               T-1..................          21,477          21,477
041               T-38.................          51,641          51,641
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
042               U-2 MODS.............          36,406          36,406
043               KC-10A (ATCA)........           4,243           4,243
044               C-12.................           5,846           5,846
045               VC-25A MOD...........          52,107          52,107
046               C-40.................          31,119          31,119
047               C-130................          66,310         195,310
                      C-130H NP2000                             [55,000]
                      Prop.
                      C-130H T56 3.5...                         [74,000]
048               C-130J MODS..........         171,230         181,957
                      Technical                                 [10,727]
                      adjustments.
049               C-135................          69,428          69,428
050               OC-135B..............          23,091          23,091
051               COMPASS CALL MODS....         166,541         102,968
                      Technical                               [-108,173]
                      adjustment.
                      UFR: Avionics                             [10,000]
                      Viability Program
                      (AVP) upgrades.
                      UFR: Expected                             [10,000]
                      disconnect in air
                      vehicle.
                      UFR: Mission and                          [24,600]
                      support equipment.
052               COMBAT FLIGHT                     495             495
                   INSPECTION (CFIN).
053               RC-135...............         201,559         201,559
054               E-3..................         189,772         189,772
055               E-4..................          30,493          30,493
056               E-8..................          13,232          13,232
057               AIRBORNE WARNING AND          164,786         164,786
                   CONTROL SYSTEM.
058               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-         24,716          24,716
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
059               H-1..................           3,730           3,730
060               H-60.................          75,989          92,089
                      Unfunded                                  [16,100]
                      requirement.
061               RQ-4 MODS............          43,968         101,868
                      HA-ISR Payload                            [18,300]
                      Adapters.
                      UFR: Replace RQ-4                         [39,600]
                      TFT Antennas.
062               HC/MC-130                      67,674          67,674
                   MODIFICATIONS.
063               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......          59,068          59,068
065               MQ-9 MODS............         264,740         264,740
066               CV-22 MODS...........          60,990          60,990
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
067               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR       1,041,569       1,121,169
                   PARTS.
                      Additional F-35                           [79,600]
                      Initial Spares.
                  COMMON SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
068               AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT           75,846          75,846
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
069               OTHER PRODUCTION                8,524           8,524
                   CHARGES.
071               T-53A TRAINER........             501             501
                  POST PRODUCTION
                   SUPPORT
072               B-2A.................             447             447
073               B-2A.................          38,509          38,509
074               B-52.................             199             199
075               C-17A................          12,028          12,028

[[Page H8896]]

 
078               RC-135...............          29,700          29,700
079               F-15.................          20,000          20,000
080               F-15.................           2,524           2,524
081               F-16.................          18,051           5,651
                      Program reduction                        [-12,400]
082               F-22A................         119,566         119,566
083               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......          85,000          85,000
085               RQ-4 POST PRODUCTION           86,695          86,695
                   CHARGES.
086               CV-22 MODS...........           4,500           4,500
                  INDUSTRIAL
                   PREPAREDNESS
087               INDUSTRIAL                     14,739          30,739
                   RESPONSIVENESS.
                      Program increase.                         [16,000]
088               C-130J...............         102,000               0
                      Technical                               [-102,000]
                      adjustments for
                      Weapon System
                      Trainers.
                  WAR CONSUMABLES
089               WAR CONSUMABLES......          37,647          37,647
                  OTHER PRODUCTION
                   CHARGES
090               OTHER PRODUCTION            1,339,160       1,339,160
                   CHARGES.
092               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......             600             600
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
092A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          53,212          53,212
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        15,430,849      18,420,649
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  MISSILE REPLACEMENT
                   EQUIPMENT--BALLISTIC
001               MISSILE REPLACEMENT            99,098          99,098
                   EQ-BALLISTIC.
                  TACTICAL
002               JOINT AIR-SURFACE             441,367         441,367
                   STANDOFF MISSILE.
003               LRASM0...............          44,728          61,728
                      UFR: Long Range                           [17,000]
                      Anti-Ship Missile
                      (LRASM).
004               SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X)..         125,350         125,350
005               AMRAAM...............         304,327         304,327
006               PREDATOR HELLFIRE              34,867          34,867
                   MISSILE.
007               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..         266,030         266,030
                  INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
008               INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/             926             926
                   POL PREVENTION.
                  CLASS IV
009               ICBM FUZE MOD........           6,334           6,334
010               MM III MODIFICATIONS.          80,109          80,109
011               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....             289             289
013               AIR LAUNCH CRUISE              36,425          36,425
                   MISSILE (ALCM).
014               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..          14,086          14,086
                  MISSILE SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
015               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR         101,153         101,153
                   PARTS.
                  SPECIAL PROGRAMS
020               SPECIAL UPDATE                 44,917          44,917
                   PROGRAMS.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
020A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         708,176         708,176
                       TOTAL MISSILE          2,308,182       2,325,182
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  SPACE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
001               ADVANCED EHF.........          56,974          56,974
002               AF SATELLITE COMM              57,516          57,516
                   SYSTEM.
003               COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS.          28,798          28,798
004               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-        146,972         146,972
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
005               WIDEBAND GAPFILLER             80,849          80,849
                   SATELLITES(SPACE).
006               GPS III SPACE SEGMENT          85,894          85,894
007               GLOBAL POSTIONING               2,198           2,198
                   (SPACE).
008               SPACEBORNE EQUIP               25,048          25,048
                   (COMSEC).
010               MILSATCOM............          33,033          33,033
011               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            957,420         957,420
                   LAUNCH CAPABILITY.
012               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            606,488         606,488
                   LAUNCH VEH(SPACE).
013               SBIR HIGH (SPACE)....         981,009       1,054,809
                      UFR: SBIRS                                [73,800]
                      equipment.
014                  ADVANCE                    132,420         132,420
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
015               NUDET DETECTION                 6,370           6,370
                   SYSTEM.
016               SPACE MODS...........          37,203          37,203
017               SPACELIFT RANGE               113,874         113,874
                   SYSTEM SPACE.
                  SSPARES
018               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          18,709          18,709
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL SPACE            3,370,775       3,444,575
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  ROCKETS
001               ROCKETS..............         147,454         147,454
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........         161,744         161,744
                  BOMBS
003               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          28,509          28,509
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS         329,501         329,501
005               MASSIVE ORDNANCE               38,382          38,382
                   PENETRATOR (MOP).
006               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           319,525         319,525
                   MUNITION.

[[Page H8897]]

 
007               B61..................          77,068          77,068
008                  ADVANCE                     11,239          11,239
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  OTHER ITEMS
009               CAD/PAD..............          53,469          53,469
010               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE              5,921           5,921
                   DISPOSAL (EOD).
011               SPARES AND REPAIR                 678             678
                   PARTS.
012               MODIFICATIONS........           1,409           1,409
013               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,047           5,047
                   MILLION.
                  FLARES
015               FLARES...............         143,983         143,983
                  FUZES
016               FUZES................          24,062          24,062
                  SMALL ARMS
017               SMALL ARMS...........          28,611          28,611
                       TOTAL                  1,376,602       1,376,602
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING             15,651          15,651
                   VEHICLES.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
002               MEDIUM TACTICAL                54,607          67,907
                   VEHICLE.
                      Unfunded                                  [13,300]
                      requirement.
003               CAP VEHICLES.........           1,011           1,011
004               CARGO AND UTILITY              28,670          78,020
                   VEHICLES.
                      Unfunded                                  [49,350]
                      requirement.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
005               SECURITY AND TACTICAL          59,398          69,362
                   VEHICLES.
                      UFR: Set the                               [9,964]
                      Theater
                      initiative, PACOM.
006               SPECIAL PURPOSE                19,784          30,391
                   VEHICLES.
                      Unfunded                                  [10,607]
                      requirement.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
007               FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH            14,768          14,768
                   RESCUE VEHICLES.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               MATERIALS HANDLING             13,561          59,089
                   VEHICLES.
                      UFR: Set the                              [45,528]
                      Theater (StT)
                      PACOM.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
009               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV &             3,429          11,550
                   CLEANING EQUIP.
                      Unfunded                                   [8,121]
                      requirement.
010               BASE MAINTENANCE               60,075          73,305
                   SUPPORT VEHICLES.
                      UFR: Set the                              [13,230]
                      Theater (StT)
                      PACOM.
                  COMM SECURITY
                   EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
011               COMSEC EQUIPMENT.....         115,000         123,000
                      UFR: Cyber                                 [8,000]
                      Squadron
                      Initiative.
                  INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
013               INTERNATIONAL INTEL            22,335          22,335
                   TECH & ARCHITECTURES.
014               INTELLIGENCE TRAINING           5,892           5,892
                   EQUIPMENT.
015               INTELLIGENCE COMM              34,072          34,072
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
016               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL &          66,143         104,843
                   LANDING SYS.
                      UFR: Cyber                                 [6,000]
                      Squadron
                      Initiative (WSCR).
                      UFR: Deployable                           [16,500]
                      Radar Approach
                      Control.
                      UFR: D-ILS                                [16,200]
                      Procurement.
017               NATIONAL AIRSPACE              12,641          12,641
                   SYSTEM.
018               BATTLE CONTROL                  6,415           7,815
                   SYSTEM--FIXED.
                      UFR: Battle                                [1,400]
                      Control System
                      (BCS) Tech
                      Refresh.
019               THEATER AIR CONTROL            23,233          23,233
                   SYS IMPROVEMENTS.
020               WEATHER OBSERVATION            40,116          40,116
                   FORECAST.
021               STRATEGIC COMMAND AND          72,810          72,810
                   CONTROL.
022               CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN               9,864           9,864
                   COMPLEX.
023               MISSION PLANNING               15,486          15,486
                   SYSTEMS.
025               INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN           9,187           9,187
                   & ANALY NETWORK
                   (ISPAN).
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
026               GENERAL INFORMATION            51,826          51,826
                   TECHNOLOGY.
027               AF GLOBAL COMMAND &             3,634           3,634
                   CONTROL SYS.
028               MOBILITY COMMAND AND           10,083          10,083
                   CONTROL.
029               AIR FORCE PHYSICAL            201,866         219,866
                   SECURITY SYSTEM.
                      Unfunded                                  [18,000]
                      requirement--Intr
                      usion Detection
                      Systems.
030               COMBAT TRAINING               115,198         115,198
                   RANGES.
031               MINIMUM ESSENTIAL                 292             292
                   EMERGENCY COMM N.
032               WIDE AREA                      62,087          62,087
                   SURVEILLANCE (WAS).
033               C3 COUNTERMEASURES...          37,764          37,764
034               GCSS-AF FOS..........           2,826           2,826
035               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE              1,514           1,514
                   ACCOUNTING AND MGMT
                   SYSTEM.
036               THEATER BATTLE MGT C2           9,646           9,646
                   SYSTEM.
037               AIR & SPACE                    25,533          25,533
                   OPERATIONS CTR-WPN
                   SYS.
                  AIR FORCE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
040               BASE INFORMATION               28,159          28,159
                   TRANSPT INFRAST
                   (BITI) WIRED.
041               AFNET................         160,820         186,820
                      UFR: ARAD                                 [26,000]
                      Enterprise
                      Software.
042               JOINT COMMUNICATIONS            5,135           5,135
                   SUPPORT ELEMENT
                   (JCSE).
043               USCENTCOM............          18,719          18,719
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
044               TACTICAL C-E                  123,206         123,206
                   EQUIPMENT.

[[Page H8898]]

 
045               COMBAT SURVIVOR                 3,004           3,004
                   EVADER LOCATER.
046               RADIO EQUIPMENT......          15,736          15,736
047               CCTV/AUDIOVISUAL                5,480           5,480
                   EQUIPMENT.
048               BASE COMM                     130,539         130,539
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                  MODIFICATIONS
049               COMM ELECT MODS......          70,798          70,798
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
051               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             52,964         116,864
                   MILLION.
                      UFR: Battlefield                          [59,400]
                      Airman Combat
                      Equipment.
                      UFR: Procure                                 [500]
                      Parachute Phantom
                      Oxygen System.
                      Unfunded                                   [4,000]
                      requirements.
                  DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS
                   HANDLING EQ
052               MECHANIZED MATERIAL            10,381          10,381
                   HANDLING EQUIP.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
053               BASE PROCURED                  15,038          20,038
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Program increase--                         [5,000]
                      Civil Engineers
                      Construction,
                      Surveying, and
                      Mapping Equipment.
054               ENGINEERING AND EOD            26,287          58,837
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unfunded                                  [32,550]
                      requirement.
055               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...           8,470          45,150
                      UFR: Basic                                [36,680]
                      Expeditionary
                      Airfield
                      Resources spare
                      requirements in
                      support of the
                      Set the Theater,
                      PACOM.
056               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             28,768          28,768
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
058               DARP RC135...........          25,985          25,985
059               DCGS-AF..............         178,423         178,423
061               SPECIAL UPDATE                881,980         881,980
                   PROGRAM.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
062A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..      16,848,568      16,848,568
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
064               SPARES AND REPAIR              26,675          26,675
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER           19,891,552      20,271,882
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
042               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD.          36,999          36,999
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
041               INFORMATION SYSTEMS             5,938           5,938
                   SECURITY PROGRAM
                   (ISSP).
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
045               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS.          10,529          10,529
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
007               INFORMATION SYSTEMS            24,805          24,805
                   SECURITY.
008               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....          46,638          46,638
009               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             15,541          15,541
                   MILLION.
010               NET CENTRIC                     1,161           1,161
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICES
                   (NCES).
011               DEFENSE INFORMATION           126,345         126,345
                   SYSTEM NETWORK.
012               CYBER SECURITY                  1,817           1,817
                   INITIATIVE.
013               WHITE HOUSE                    45,243          45,243
                   COMMUNICATION AGENCY.
014               SENIOR LEADERSHIP             294,139         294,139
                   ENTERPRISE.
016               JOINT REGIONAL                188,483         188,483
                   SECURITY STACKS
                   (JRSS).
017               JOINT SERVICE                 100,783         100,783
                   PROVIDER.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
019               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           2,951           2,951
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DSS
023               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           1,073           1,073
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCAA
001               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              1,475           1,475
                   MILLION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
043               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS.           9,341           9,341
044               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS--            903             903
                   CE2T2.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
027               THAAD................         960,732         960,732
027A              GROUND BASED                  180,000         180,000
                   MIDCOURSE.
027B                 ADVANCE                     88,000          88,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
028               AEGIS BMD............         876,018         876,018
029                  ADVANCE                     38,738          38,738
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
030               BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS.          11,947          11,947
031               ARROW UPPER TIER.....                         120,000
                      Program increase                         [120,000]
                      for co-production.
032               DAVID'S SLING........                         120,000
                      Program increase                         [120,000]
                      for co-production.
033               AEGIS ASHORE PHASE             59,739          59,739
                   III.
034               IRON DOME............          42,000          92,000
                      Increase for Co-                          [50,000]
                      production of
                      Iron Dome Tamir
                      interceptors.
035               AEGIS BMD HARDWARE            160,330         160,330
                   AND SOFTWARE.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
003               PERSONNEL                      14,588          14,588
                   ADMINISTRATION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DEFENSE THREAT
                   REDUCTION AGENCY
025               VEHICLES.............             204             204
026               OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT          12,363          12,363
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DODEA
021               AUTOMATION/                     1,910           1,910
                   EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT
                   & LOGISTICS.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
002               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           4,347           4,347
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DMACT

[[Page H8899]]

 
020               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......          13,464          13,464
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
045A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         657,759         657,759
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
049               ROTARY WING UPGRADES          158,988         145,488
                   AND SUSTAINMENT.
                      SOCOM requested                          [-13,500]
                      transfer.
050               UNMANNED ISR.........          13,295          13,295
051               NON-STANDARD AVIATION           4,892           4,892
052               U-28.................           5,769           5,769
053               MH-47 CHINOOK........          87,345          87,345
055               CV-22 MODIFICATION...          42,178          42,178
057               MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL           21,660          21,660
                   VEHICLE.
059               PRECISION STRIKE              229,728         229,728
                   PACKAGE.
060               AC/MC-130J...........         179,934         179,934
061               C-130 MODIFICATIONS..          28,059          28,059
                  SHIPBUILDING
062               UNDERWATER SYSTEMS...          92,606          79,806
                      SOCOM requested                          [-12,800]
                      transfer.
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
063               ORDNANCE ITEMS 
