

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 155 (Wednesday, September 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 155 (Wednesday, September 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6187-S6188]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill 
to amend the Public Health Service Act to establish a public health 
insurance option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 364

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 364, a bill to 
amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to exempt certain recipients of 
Department of Agriculture conservation assistance from certain 
reporting requirements, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 538

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 538, a bill to clarify 
research and development for wood products, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to increase the number of permanent faculty 
in palliative care at accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical 
schools, nursing schools, social work schools, and other programs, 
including physician assistant education programs, to promote education 
and research in palliative care and hospice, and to support the 
development of faculty careers in academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 951

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 951, a bill to reform the process by which Federal 
agencies analyze and formulate new regulations and guidance documents, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1144

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1144, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to encourage business creation 
by allowing faster recovery of start-up and organizational expenses, to 
simplify accounting methods for small businesses, to expand expensing 
and provide accelerated cost recovery to encourage investment in new 
plants and equipment, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1292

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1292, a bill to amend the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to monitor and combat 
anti-Semitism globally, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1319

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1319, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a continuing medical 
education program for non-Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
professionals who treat veterans to increase knowledge and recognition 
of medical conditions common to veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1358

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1358, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the treatment of certain 
direct primary care service arrangements and periodic provider fees.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse 
practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, 
intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1505

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1505, a bill to provide that silencers be treated the 
same as firearms accessories.


                                S. 1531

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1531, a bill to require reporting by the Secretary of 
Education on the implementation of recent Government Accountability 
Office recommendations.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1568, a bill to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1595, a bill to amend the 
Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose 
additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1595, supra.


                                S. 1697

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1697, a bill to

[[Page S6188]]

condition assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the 
Palestinian Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli 
citizens and United States Citizens.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill 
to authorize the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of 
the end of World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1753

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1753, a bill to amend the 
S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 to provide a temporary license 
for loan originators transitioning between employers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1754

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. 
Duckworth) were added as cosponsors of S. 1754, a bill to reauthorize 
section 340H of the Public Health Service Act to continue to encourage 
the expansion, maintenance, and establishment of approved graduate 
medical residency programs at qualified teaching health centers, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1767

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1767, a bill to reauthorize the farm to school 
program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1774, a bill to provide protections for workers 
with respect to their right to select or refrain from selecting 
representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1816

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1816, a bill to 
amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to enhance fraud alert procedures 
and provide free access to credit freezes, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1823

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1823, a bill to amend the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to 
clarify that houses of worship are eligible for certain disaster relief 
and emergency assistance on terms equal to other eligible private 
nonprofit facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) 
and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1829, a bill to amend title V of the Social Security Act to 
extend the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1868

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1868, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide tax credits for energy storage 
technologies, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a 
resolution condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's 
Rohingya population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active 
role in ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                              S. RES. 264

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 264, a resolution designating September 
2017 as ``National Kinship Care Month'' .


                              S. RES. 267

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. Res. 267, a resolution designating September 2017 as ``National 
Workforce Development Month'' .
  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. 
Graham) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 267, supra.

                          ____________________



