

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7943-S7944]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING JUDGE FRED L. FOX II

 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the 
Honorable Fred L. Fox, a proud Vietnam veteran and West Virginian, 
noble public servant, and very dear friend of mine, who left a 
significant imprint on our home State of West Virginia.
  Fred was born in Charleston and raised in Sutton in lovely Braxton 
County. His grandfather, Fred Fox, Sr., or ``grandfox,'' was a lawyer, 
a State senator, and a West Virginia Supreme Court justice. His father, 
John Fox, was a prosecuting attorney in Braxton County for more than a 
decade. Despite this family tradition, Fred grew up determined that he 
did not want to be a lawyer.
  He loved our country, and after graduating from the Greenbrier 
Military Academy in 1956 and Davis and Elkins College in 1960, he 
enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps and served from 1960 to 1963. Once he 
returned home with his new perspective, he finally did follow in his 
family's footsteps and enrolled at West Virginia University's College 
of Law, ranking second in his class, and remained in the Marine Corps 
Reserves.
  Fred also graduated from the Naval Justice School in Newport, RI. His 
success in these endeavors prepared him for his first law experience at 
Furbee, Amos, Webb and Critchfield, a local firm in Fairmont. Fred 
began working as a personal attorney for my father and our lifelong 
friendship began.
  However, soon after joining the firm at the height of the Vietnam 
war, Fred again answered the call of duty. He wanted to be a combat 
marine because, in his words, ``It was the right thing to do.'' After 
nearly a year as an infantry company commander, Fred was wounded. He 
was awarded a Purple Heart, two Bronze Stars with combat ``V,'' and two 
Vietnamese Crosses of Gallantry with Gold Star. Due to his injuries, 
Fred retired as a captain in 1969. I can recall Fred saying, ``You 
don't win Bronze Stars, they're awarded to you.'' His experience during 
Vietnam set the groundwork for how he viewed the rest of his endeavors. 
In his opinion, he certainly faced pressure as a judge, but he had 
already faced so much as a marine that nothing ever quite compared.
  Even now, I remember Fred so clearly with his globe and anchor marine

[[Page S7944]]

lapel pin and a warm smile on his face, and that is how I'll always 
remember him. I chose Fred to swear me in at my second inauguration as 
Governor, and it made the day even more special.
  What made Fred's presence so comforting was that he wasn't afraid to 
admit he didn't know an answer. In fact, when he was elected as Marion 
County circuit court Judge in 1970, he frequently called upon one of 
his mentors, Judge Robert Maxwell of Elkins, for help. He followed 
Judge Maxwell's example and always maintained a good relationship with 
his colleagues. He had only been out of law school a few years, but 
because of his compassion, intelligence, and fairness, he was reelected 
every 8 years until his retirement in 2010. Young judges and lawyers 
often called on him for advice thereafter, and he was happy to oblige.
  His view of the law is something I will always admire, and I know has 
inspired countless young judges and lawyers. He was fiercely protective 
of the interests of the people before him in the courtroom, 
acknowledging the heavy responsibility of representing the entire 
justice system. He didn't necessarily agree with every verdict, but he 
respected every verdict because he trusted the system.
  Following his 40-year career as Circuit Court Judge, he served 3 
years as a senior-status judge. At the time of his retirement, he was 
the longest sitting circuit judge in the State. In 1995, he was 
appointed to serve a 10-month term with the West Virginia Supreme Court 
of Appeals. He was instrumental in the creation of the CASA Program, 
which provides a voice for abused and neglected children who find 
themselves in the court system, and it has changed countless lives for 
the better. Among his many recognitions, he was also rightfully 
nominated as a Marion County Public Servant of the Year.
  What is most important is that Fred lived a full life, surrounded by 
dear friends, colleagues, and family. It is my hope that his loved ones 
are able to find peace, strength, and support in one another. This is a 
time to celebrate his life and legacy and to honor his memory in our 
thoughts and prayers. He touched countless lives, and his loss has left 
a deep void in our statewide community. He was a dear friend to Gayle 
and I and our family, and we will miss him dearly.
  Again, I extend my most sincere condolences to his loving wife, 
Debra; his children Charlee Anne, Joseph, Logan, and Zach; his 
grandchildren Lindsay, Kelsey, Nick, and Benjamin; his sister Janie; 
and the entire Fox family. I am honored to join the people of West 
Virginia and beyond in recognizing Fred's memory, as well as the 
unwavering love he had for his family, friends, the judicial system, 
our State of West Virginia, and our great Nation. His legacy of service 
will live on forever.

                          ____________________



