

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7932-S7933]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SENATE RESOLUTION 353--DESIGNATING DECEMBER 16, 2017, AS ``WREATHS 
                          ACROSS AMERICA DAY''

  Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr. King) submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 353

       Whereas, 26 years before the date of adoption of this 
     resolution, the Wreaths Across America project began with an 
     annual tradition, which occurs in December, of donating, 
     transporting, and placing 5,000 Maine balsam fir remembrance 
     wreaths on the graves of the fallen heroes buried at 
     Arlington National Cemetery;
       Whereas, during the 26 years preceding the date of adoption 
     of this resolution, more than 4,517,000 wreaths have been 
     sent to locations, including national cemeteries and veterans 
     memorials, in every State and overseas;
       Whereas the mission of the Wreaths Across America project, 
     to ``Remember, Honor, Teach'', is carried out in part by 
     coordinating wreath-laying ceremonies in all 50 States and 
     overseas, including at--
       (1) Arlington National Cemetery;

[[Page S7933]]

       (2) veterans cemeteries; and
       (3) other locations;
       Whereas the Wreaths Across America project carries out a 
     week-long veterans parade from Maine to Virginia, stopping 
     along the way to spread a message about the importance of--
       (1) remembering the fallen heroes of the United States;
       (2) honoring those who serve; and
       (3) reminding the people of the United States about the 
     sacrifices made by veterans and the families of veterans to 
     preserve freedoms in the United States;
       Whereas, in 2016, approximately 1,200,000 remembrance 
     wreaths were sent to more than 1,220 locations across the 
     United States and overseas, which is an increase of more than 
     100 locations compared to the previous year;
       Whereas, in December 2017, the tradition of escorting 
     tractor-trailers filled with donated wreaths from Harrington, 
     Maine, to Arlington National Cemetery will be continued by--
       (1) the Patriot Guard Riders; and
       (2) other patriotic escort units, including--
          (A) motorcycle units;
          (B) law enforcement units; and
          (C) first responder units;
       Whereas hundreds of thousands of individuals volunteer each 
     December to help lay remembrance wreaths;
       Whereas, in 2017, the trucking industry in the United 
     States continues to support the Wreaths Across America 
     project by providing drivers, equipment, and related services 
     to assist in the transportation of wreaths to more than 1,300 
     locations across the United States;
       Whereas the Senate designated December 17, 2016, as 
     ``Wreaths Across America Day''; and
       Whereas, on December 16, 2017, the Wreaths Across America 
     project will continue the proud legacy of bringing 
     remembrance wreaths to Arlington National Cemetery: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates December 16, 2017, as ``Wreaths Across 
     America Day'';
       (2) honors--
       (A) the Wreaths Across America project;
       (B) patriotic escort units, including--
       (i) motorcycle units;
       (ii) law enforcement units; and
       (iii) first responder units;
       (C) the trucking industry in the United States; and
       (D) the volunteers and donors involved in this worthy 
     tradition; and
       (3) recognizes--
       (A) the service of veterans and members of the Armed 
     Forces; and
       (B) the sacrifices that veterans and members of the Armed 
     Forces have made, and continue to make, for the United 
     States, a great nation.

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I am pleased to be joined by my colleague 
Senator Angus King in sponsoring this resolution to designate December 
16, 2017, as Wreaths Across America Day. Since its inception, the 
Wreaths Across America project has become an annual tradition of 
donating, transporting, and placing Maine balsam fir remembrance 
wreaths on the graves of our fallen heroes buried at Arlington National 
Cemetery, as well as at veterans cemeteries and memorials in every 
State and overseas. In the program's 26 years, more than 4.5 million 
wreaths have been placed in honor of those who have served our country.
  The origin of Wreaths Across America is an inspiring example of that 
generosity and gratitude. During the Christmas season in 1992, Morrill 
and Karen Worcester took time during their busiest season to donate and 
deliver wreaths from their company in Harrington, ME, to Arlington 
National Cemetery to honor the heroes who lie at rest there. At first, 
a small group of volunteers laid the wreaths with little notice. In 
recent years, however, the Arlington Wreath Project has grown to become 
a national phenomenon. The people of Maine are proud that this 
important and well-deserved tradition began in our State.
  This year, on December 16, thousands of volunteers in Arlington, 
throughout our Nation, and overseas will carry out the mission of 
Wreaths Across America to ``Remember, Honor, Teach.'' This will 
conclude a weeklong procession between Maine and Virginia, with stops 
along the way to pause and remember the men and women who have died to 
preserve our freedoms, spread the message about the importance of 
honoring those who serve, and remind the people of the United States 
about the sacrifices made by our veterans and their families. This 
procession helps to ensure that those sacrifices are never forgotten.
  The Patriot Guard Riders, along with other dedicated escort groups, 
will accompany tractor-trailers filled with donated wreaths from Maine 
to Arlington National Cemetery. America's trucking industry has long 
supported Wreaths Across America by providing drivers, equipment, fuel, 
and related services to assist in the transportation of wreaths across 
the country to more than 1,200 locations.
  Wreaths Across America not only honors our departed heroes but also 
imparts the important message to veterans who are still with us that we 
honor their service. It tells our men and women in uniform today that 
we are grateful for their courage and devotion to duty. It tells the 
families of those serving our country that they are in our thoughts and 
prayers. And it tells the families of the fallen that we share their 
grief.
  Throughout human history, the evergreen wreath has been offered as a 
tribute to heroes. On December 16, 2017, we will again offer this 
enduring symbol of valor and sacrifice as part of our never-ending 
obligation to thank those who wore the uniform of our country. In this 
season of giving, we will pay tribute to those who have given us the 
most precious gift of all--our freedom.

                          ____________________



