

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7226-H7227]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               JOLENE HERFEL, VICE PRINCIPAL OF THE YEAR

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate an educator in my 
district whose dedication to her students has earned her an important 
award.
  Jolene Herfel, who serves as the assistant principal at St. Michael-
Albertville High School, was recently named the Vice Principal of the 
Year by the Minnesota Association of Secondary School Principals.
  Jolene has served as assistant principal at St. Michael-Albertville 
High School for 9 years. She is known for her strong leadership and 
commitment to providing students with a great environment in which to 
learn and a top-notch education.
  She has shown her commitment by consistently improving curriculum and 
implementing many different programs designed to assist her students. 
One program she created is called Freshman Connections which helps 
build relationships between incoming freshman students and their 
upperclassmen peers.
  Successful students are the key to our future, so it is important 
that we recognize educators like Jolene who are guiding our students on 
the path to success. Congratulations, Jolene, on being named the Vice 
Principal of the Year. You deserve it.


  St. Cloud Hospital is Recognized as one of the Most Wired Hospitals

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the St. Cloud 
Hospital for being recognized as one of the most digitally connected 
hospitals in the Nation. This is not St. Cloud Hospital's first major 
award. In fact, just last year, they were named one of the top 100 
hospitals in the country.
  As technology continues to develop and advance, our Nation's 
hospitals are better suited to provide their patients with the very 
best care possible, which is exactly what the St. Cloud Hospital does 
each and every day.
  We are proud that the St. Cloud Hospital is a leader in this 
healthcare industry and in utilizing useful technology, allowing 
patients to stay in touch with their doctors and nurses, renew 
prescriptions, gain access to their records, and even take part in 
virtual physician exams.
  This high distinction is the result of the healthcare providers and 
the information systems staff working for CentraCare Health and the St. 
Cloud Hospital. Thank you for your service, and thank you for making 
the St. Cloud Hospital a leader in 21st century healthcare.


      The Hubins are Named the Pizza Ranch Franchisees of the Year

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Randall and Sheryl 
Hubin, the owners of the Pizza Ranch in Andover, on being recognized as 
the Pizza Ranch Franchisee of the Year.
  The Hubins received this award not just because of their dedication 
to the Pizza Ranch brand but also because of their commitment to the 
Andover community.
  Randall and Sheryl have owned the Pizza Ranch for the past 4 years, 
and, as a direct result of its success, not only have they been named 
Franchisee

[[Page H7227]]

of the Year, but they were also awarded the Community Impact Award last 
year.
  Opening and operating a franchise business is not an easy job. We 
appreciate the jobs that people like Randall and Sheryl Hubin create 
and the commerce they bring to our communities.
  Congratulations, Randall and Sheryl, on your award, and thank you for 
your contribution to Minnesota's Sixth Congressional District and the 
Andover community.

                              {time}  1015


                        Recognizing POW/MIA Day

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize National POW/MIA Day and 
to remember the brave Americans who became prisoners of war during 
their service and those still missing in action.
  Since America's founding, hundreds of thousands of Americans have 
been held as prisoners of war. To this day, more than 80,000 Americans 
remain missing in action.
  These patriots answered the call of duty during some of our Nation's 
darkest times. Their service and enormous sacrifice must never be 
forgotten or taken for granted. So I stand here today reaffirming our 
Nation's commitment to these Americans.
  They deserve to return home, and their families deserve answers. That 
is why every third Friday in September we not only honor these 
Americans, but we recommit to our promise to search until every missing 
soldier is accounted for.
  Today, I ask that we all pause for a moment to remember these 
Americans.
  Remember their sacrifice, and if they are still missing, pray for 
their homecoming.

                          ____________________



