

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7562-S7563]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF COMMITTEE

  The following executive reports of nominations were submitted:

       By Mr. McCAIN for the Committee on Armed Services.
       *John C. Rood, of Arizona, to be Under Secretary of Defense 
     for Policy.
       *Randall G. Schriver, of Virginia, to be an Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense.
       Army nomination of Col. Douglas F. Stitt, to be Brigadier 
     General.
       Navy nomination of Capt. Michael E. Boyle, to be Rear 
     Admiral (lower half).
       Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Lisa M. Franchetti, to be Vice 
     Admiral.
       Air Force nomination of Brig. Gen. Arthur E. Jackman, Jr., 
     to be Major General.
       Air Force nomination of Brig. Gen. Josef F. Schmid III, to 
     be Major General.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Col. John M. Breazeale 
     and ending with Col. Christopher F. Yancy, which nominations 
     were received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on November 14, 2017.
       Air Force nomination of Col. Darlow G. Botha, Jr., to be 
     Brigadier General.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Col. Steven J. 
     deMilliano and ending with Col. Christopher E. Finerty, which 
     nominations were received by the Senate and appeared in the 
     Congressional Record on November 14, 2017.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Col. Michele K. 
     LaMontagne and ending with Col. Michael J. Regan, Jr., which 
     nominations

[[Page S7563]]

     were received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on November 14, 2017.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Col. Travis K. Acheson 
     and ending with Col. Jeffrey D. Young, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on November 14, 2017.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Brig. Gen. Ondra L. 
     Berry and ending with Brig. Gen. Dean A. Tremps, which 
     nominations were received by the Senate and appeared in the 
     Congressional Record on November 14, 2017.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Brig. Gen. George M. 
     Degnon and ending with Brig. Gen. Thomas K. Wark, which 
     nominations were received by the Senate and appeared in the 
     Congressional Record on November 14, 2017.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Brig. Gen. Douglas A. 
     Farnham and ending with Brig. Gen. Clay L. Garrison, which 
     nominations were received by the Senate and appeared in the 
     Congressional Record on November 14, 2017.

  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Armed Services I 
report favorably the following nomination lists which were printed in 
the Records on the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save 
the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar that these 
nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of 
Senators.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

       Air Force nominations beginning with Dane V. Campbell and 
     ending with Richard L. Woodruff, Jr., which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on September 5, 2017.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Joseph Benjamin Ahlers 
     and ending with Trenton M. White, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on November 14, 2017.
       Air Force nomination of Erika R. Woodson, to be Major.
       Air Force nomination of Michael S. Stroud, to be Major.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Lance A. Aiumopas and 
     ending with Tara L. Villena, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     November 14, 2017.
       Air Force nomination of Robert Sarlay, Jr., to be Colonel.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Richard G. Adams and 
     ending with Joseph F. Zingaro, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on November 16, 2017.
       Army nomination of Ashley R. Sellers, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Elias M. Chelala, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Cathleen A. Labate, to be Colonel.
       Army nominations beginning with Rebecca J, Cooper and 
     ending with Matthew L. Daniels, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on October 16, 2017.
       Army nomination of Brantley J. Combs, to be Lieutenant 
     Colonel.
       Army nominations beginning with Mark E. Query and ending 
     with Samuel H. Tahk, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on November 
     14, 2017.
       Army nomination of Victor A. Pachecofowler, to be 
     Lieutenant Colonel.
       Army nomination of James M. Brumit, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Melvin J. Nickell, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Erica L. Herzog, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Adam W. Vanek, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Jason Park, to be Major.
       Army nomination of John T. Huckabay, to be Major.

  *Nomination was reported with recommendation that it be confirmed 
subject to the nominee's commitment to respond to requests to appear 
and testify before any duly constituted committee of the Senate.
  (Nominations without an asterisk were reported with the 
recommendation that they be confirmed.)

                          ____________________



