

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 179 (Friday, November 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 179 (Friday, November 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8494-H8495]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. MacArthur, and Mr. Norcross):

[[Page H8495]]

  

       H.R. 4236. A bill to ensure that the prescription drug 
     monitoring program of each State receiving funds through the 
     Account for the State Response to the Opioid Abuse Crisis 
     meets certain minimum requirements, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself and Mr. King of Iowa):
       H.R. 4237. A bill to prohibit United States assistance to 
     foreign countries that oppose the position of the United 
     States in the United Nations; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Sherman, and Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 4238. A bill to impose terrorism-related sanctions 
     with respect to As-Saib Ahl Al-Haq and Harakat Hizballah Al-
     Nujaba, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. SCALISE (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 4239. A bill to distribute revenues from oil and gas 
     leasing on the outer Continental Shelf to certain coastal 
     States, to require sale of approved offshore oil and gas 
     leases, to promote offshore wind lease sales, and to empower 
     States to manage the development and production of oil and 
     gas on available Federal land, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself and Mr. King 
             of New York):
       H.R. 4240. A bill to protect Second Amendment rights, 
     ensure that all individuals who should be prohibited from 
     buying a firearm are listed in the National Instant Criminal 
     Background Check System, and provide a responsible and 
     consistent background check process; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.R. 4241. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to carry out a pilot program to improve transportation 
     planning, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. 
             Wenstrup, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Bost, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. 
             Arrington, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, 
             Mr. Bergman, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Dunn, Mr. 
             Walz, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Mr. Correa, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Peters, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Takano, 
             and Ms. Brownley of California):
       H.R. 4242. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     establish a permanent VA Care in the Community Program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. 
             Wenstrup, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Bost, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. 
             Arrington, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, 
             Mr. Bergman, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 4243. A bill to establish a commission for the purpose 
     of making recommendations regarding the modernization or 
     realignment of facilities of the Veterans Health 
     Administration, to improve construction and management leases 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to amend and 
     appropriate funds for the Veterans Choice Program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Rules, and Appropriations, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4244. A bill to require the release of all records 
     relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. WALZ (for himself, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire, and Mr. Bergman):
       H.R. 4245. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to submit to Congress certain documents relating to 
     the Electronic Health Record Modernization Program of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN (for herself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Khanna, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Soto, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Evans, and Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 4246. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to 
     create a buffer in between oil and gas drilling operations 
     and homes, businesses, schools, and other buildings that 
     require special protection, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BUDD:
       H.R. 4247. A bill to repeal title VIII of the Dodd-Frank 
     Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. HUIZENGA:
       H.R. 4248. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to repeal certain disclosure requirements related to 
     conflict minerals, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 4249. A bill to provide housing and Medicaid 
     assistance to families affected by a major disaster, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 4250. A bill to promote category management principles 
     within the Federal Government, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Soto, and Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4251. A bill to promote the use of resilient energy 
     systems to rebuild infrastructure following disasters; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 4252. A bill to expand geothermal production, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Bass, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham 
             of New Mexico, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, and Mr. Evans):
       H.R. 4253. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide for certain protections for aliens granted 
     temporary protected status or deferred enforced departure, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas (for himself, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Brady of Texas, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, 
             Mr. Hurd, Mr. Babin, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Weber 
             of Texas, Mr. Barton, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Culberson, Mr. 
             Burgess, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Flores, Mr. Sessions, 
             Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Arrington, 
             Mr. Marchant, Ms. Granger, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Smith 
             of Texas, and Mr. Conaway):
       H. Res. 605. A resolution congratulating the Houston Astros 
     on winning the 2017 Major League Baseball World Series; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself, Mr. Biggs, and Mr. Gohmert):
       H. Res. 606. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that Robert Mueller should resign from his 
     special counsel position; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



