

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5478-S5479]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

  At 11:26 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following joint resolution, without amendment:

       S.J. Res. 49. Joint resolution condemning the violence and 
     domestic terrorist attack that took place during events 
     between August 11 and August 12, 2017, in Charlottesville, 
     Virginia, recognizing the first responders who lost their 
     lives while monitoring the events, offering deepest 
     condolences to the families and friends of those individuals 
     who were killed and deepest sympathies and support to those 
     individuals who were injured by the violence, expressing 
     support for the Charlottesville community, rejecting White 
     nationalists, White supremacists, the Ku

[[Page S5479]]

     Klux Klan, neo-Nazis, and other hate groups, and urging the 
     President and the President's Cabinet to use all available 
     resources to address the threats posed by those groups.

  The message further announced that the House has passed the following 
bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the Senate:

       H.R. 931. An act to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to develop a voluntary registry to collect 
     data on cancer incidence among firefighters.
       H.R. 2427. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to direct the Assistant Secretary for State and Local 
     Law Enforcement to produce and disseminate an annual catalog 
     on Department of Homeland Security training, publications, 
     programs, and services for State, local, and tribal law 
     enforcement agencies, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2433. An act to direct the Under Secretary of Homeland 
     Security for Intelligence and Analysis to develop and 
     disseminate a threat assessment regarding terrorist use of 
     virtual currency.
       H.R. 2442. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require an annual report on the Office for State and 
     Local Law Enforcement.
       H.R. 2443. An act to require an inventory of all facilities 
     certified by the Department of Homeland Security to host 
     infrastructure or systems classified above the Secret level, 
     and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2453. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish the Intelligence Rotational Assignment 
     Program in the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 2454. An act to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to establish a data framework to provide access for 
     appropriate personnel to law enforcement and other 
     information of the Department, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2468. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish a homeland intelligence doctrine for the 
     Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2470. An act to require an annual homeland threat 
     assessment, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2471. An act to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to share with State, local, and regional fusion 
     centers release information from a Federal correctional 
     facility, including name, charging date, and expected place 
     and date of release, of certain individuals who may pose a 
     terrorist threat, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2611. An act to modify the boundary of the Little Rock 
     Central High School National Historic Site, and for other 
     purposes.

  The message also announced that the House has agreed to the following 
concurrent resolution, without amendment:

       S. Con. Res. 23. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center for a 
     ceremony to present the Congressional Gold Medal to the 
     Filipino Veterans of World War II.

                          ____________________



