

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9818]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RUTLEDGE PEARSON POST OFFICE BUILDING

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 3638) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 1100 Kings Road in Jacksonville, Florida, as the 
``Rutledge Pearson Post Office Building''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3638

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. RUTLEDGE PEARSON POST OFFICE BUILDING.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 1100 Kings Road in Jacksonville, Florida, 
     shall be known and designated as the ``Rutledge Pearson Post 
     Office Building''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Rutledge Pearson Post Office Building''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Montana (Mr. Gianforte) and the gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. Demings) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Montana.


                             General Leave

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Montana?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3638, introduced by the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Lawson). The bill names the United States 
Post Office at 1100 Kings Road in Jacksonville, Florida, after Rutledge 
Pearson.
  Rutledge Pearson was an educator and instrumental leader in the civil 
rights movement. He is remembered for his ability to attract young 
people to the fight for civil rights. Tragically, he was killed in a 
car accident in 1967. Today, we honor his legacy and service to his 
community in Jacksonville.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 3638, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Post 
Office located at 1100 Kings Road in Jacksonville, Florida, as the 
Rutledge Pearson Post Office Building.
  Born in 1929, Rutledge Pearson graduated from New Stanton High School 
in 1947, before attending Tillatson College on a baseball scholarship. 
Following his graduation, he began playing for the Negro League's 
Birmingham Black Barons, but because of his race, the Jacksonville 
Beach Seabirds refused to allow Mr. Pearson to play on their team, 
deciding they would rather close the park.
  His rejection, however, inspired him, and he went on to become an 
influential member of Jacksonville's education system and civil rights 
movements. He served at every level in the NAACP, and he continued to 
energize and inspire young people around his community, as he did in 
the classroom every day.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation to 
honor Mr. Rutledge Pearson. I urge the passage of H.R. 3638, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Lawson).

                              {time}  1500

  Mr. LAWSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to stand before you 
today as we move to honor the legacy of Rutledge Pearson by naming the 
Jacksonville Post Office in his honor. He was a tremendous leader. 
Rutledge Pearson was a civil rights leader, an American history 
teacher, and a distinguished baseball player. His legacy in 
Jacksonville, and especially for civil rights, is long lasting, and 
this is the fitting way to honor his contribution to our community.
  As a young man, Rutledge Pearson had a successful baseball career, as 
we heard from the Congressman, with the Birmingham Black Barons of the 
Negro League. His talent granted him the opportunity to play major 
league baseball in his hometown.
  However, as we heard earlier, because of his race, the Jacksonville 
Beach Seabirds rejected Pearson from joining the team. In fact, park 
officials, as was stated also earlier, said that they would rather 
close the park than to have this outstanding hero, baseball player, and 
educator play in his hometown.
  This experience prepared Pearson to pursue a career in education, 
and, like most of us, when you pursue a career in education, you break 
down a lot of barriers. Rutledge Pearson was elected president of the 
Jacksonville branch of the NAACP and was later elected to be president 
of the Florida State Conference of the NAACP.
  He was known for his ability to attract young people, which all of us 
do today, to get young people involved in the NAACP and many community 
organizations. Pearson was instrumental as a leader in the fight for 
civil rights. Little did I know that I would be on the floor speaking 
for this great person whom I learned about many years ago in a history 
class.
  Pearson was instrumental in all of his efforts, especially locally 
and nationally, helping change Jacksonville's culture as it is today in 
its landscape.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman for the time, and I urge a 
``yes'' vote to honor Rutledge Pearson for his contribution to the city 
of Jacksonville and to our Nation.
  Also, little did I know, in 1970, that I would be sitting in a class 
in college with Rutledge Pearson's niece. It is so exciting to have 
Congress honor this great leader among people throughout the State of 
Florida.
  Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Montana (Mr. Gianforte) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 3638.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



