

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9295-H9296]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     ROBERT H. JENKINS POST OFFICE

  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 3893) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 100 Mathe Avenue in Interlachen, Florida, as the 
``Robert H. Jenkins Post Office'', as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3893

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. ROBERT H. JENKINS, JR. POST OFFICE.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 100 Mathe Avenue in Interlachen, Florida, 
     shall be known and designated as the ``Robert H. Jenkins, Jr. 
     Post Office''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Robert H. Jenkins, Jr. Post Office''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Comer) and the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. Watson 
Coleman) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky.


                             General Leave

  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
to include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Kentucky?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3893, introduced by the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Yoho).
  The bill names the United States Post Office located at 100 Mathe 
Avenue in Interlachen, Florida, after U.S. Marine Private First Class 
Robert H. Jenkins, Jr., who was killed in action during the Vietnam 
war.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Yoho) to further describe the bill and Private First 
Class Jenkins' service to our country.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of my bill, H.R. 3893, which renames the 
post office in Interlachen, Florida, to honor a great American hero, 
Robert H. Jenkins, Jr.
  Robert H. Jenkins, Jr., enlisted in the Marines in February of 1968. 
In July of that year, as a Private First Class, he was transferred to 
the Republic of Vietnam.
  Serving as a machine gunner with Company C, south of the 
demilitarized zone, he was killed in action.
  On March 5, 1969, his reconnaissance team was assaulted by a North 
Vietnamese Army platoon. During the firefight, a hand grenade was 
thrown at him and a comrade. Realizing the consequences of his actions, 
Private First Class Jenkins, Jr., pushed his comrade to the ground and 
leapt on the hand grenade to shield him from the explosion. Absorbing 
the full impact of the blast, he was seriously injured and succumbed to 
his wounds.
  John 15:13 states:

       Greater love has no one than this: to lay down one's life 
     for one's friend.

  On April 20, 1970, the Medal of Honor was presented to his family at 
the White House by Vice President Agnew.
  Private First Class Jenkins, Jr., is buried at Sister Spring Baptist 
Cemetery in Interlachen, Florida.
  The sacrifice Private First Class Jenkins, Jr., made cannot be 
understated. Naming his hometown post office after him is just one 
small way we as a nation can continue to honor this American hero.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 3893, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Post 
Office located at 100 Mathe Avenue in Interlachen, Florida, as the 
Robert H. Jenkins Post Office.
  Robert Jenkins joined the United States Marine Corps in Jacksonville, 
Florida, in February of 1968.
  After completing training at Camp Lejeune, Robert was assigned to the 
3rd Marine Division in Vietnam. There he served as a scout, driver, 
machine gunner for Company C in an area south of the demilitarized 
zone.
  In the early morning of March 5, 1969, Private First Class Jenkins' 
team was suddenly attacked by the North Vietnamese Army. While Private 
First Class Jenkins and a fellow marine returned machine gun fire, a 
hand grenade was thrown at their location.
  In an act of pure selflessness, Private First Class Jenkins threw 
himself on top of his fellow marine, shielding him from the explosion, 
while absorbing the full force himself. Tragically, Private First Class 
was gravely wounded and died soon after.
  Private First Class Jenkins was posthumously awarded the Medal of 
Honor for his valiant actions in April 1970.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to honor the valiant actions of 
Private First Class Jenkins and to remember his courage and 
selflessness devotion to his fellow marines.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of H.R. 3893. I have no further speakers, 
and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of H.R. 3893, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Comer) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 3893, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.

[[Page H9296]]

  The title of the bill was amended so as to read: ``A bill to 
designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 
100 Mathe Avenue in Interlachen, Florida, as the `Robert H. Jenkins, 
Jr. Post Office'.''.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



