

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5243-S5244]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the National Defense Authorization Act 
is one of the most important pieces of legislation to come before the 
Senate each and every year. It is, after all, the measure that 
authorizes the resources, the capabilities, and the pay and benefits 
that our men and women in uniform need to perform their mission. It is 
always worth remembering that our country fields an all-volunteer 
force. We owe a special obligation to all those who volunteer to fight 
on behalf of each and every one of us.
  This year the bill, thanks to the good work of the Armed Services 
Committee under the leadership of Chairman McCain and Ranking Member 
Reed, passed out of committee with unanimous bipartisan support. It 
recommends a national defense level of authorization that will allow 
the Department of Defense to begin to rebuild our military and deliver 
a well-deserved pay raise to our men and women in uniform. That is 
especially important today. Our Nation faces a myriad of challenges 
around the world from both state actors and terror organizations that 
threaten American national security. These growing pressures require 
that our forces have the training and resources they need to combat 
those challenges and win.
  Yet, due to a combination of the last administration's actions and 
the harmful consequences of sequestration, our military does not have 
the resources it needs to address the many global challenges before us 
in either a comprehensive or responsible way. We have to keep faith 
with the force. So we have to correct this situation, and doing so 
means equipping our servicemembers with the weapons and the training 
they need to sufficiently defeat these threats.
  As I said yesterday, this spring's government funding bill made an 
important down payment toward rebuilding our forces, and the NDAA bill 
before us can build upon that progress further. As we consider the 
NDAA, I remain firmly committed to the men and women in the Armed 
Forces, including to those stationed in my home State.
  I am proud to represent three Army installations and the Kentucky Air 
and Army National Guard. One of these installations, Fort Campbell in 
Christian County, is home to the 101st Airborne Division, the 5th 
Special Forces Group, and the 160th Special Operations Aviation 
Regiment.
  Since World War II, the 101st Airborne Division has responded to 
threats around the globe, including, most recently, during multiple 
deployments in Afghanistan and Iraq. This highly decorated unit, known 
as the Screaming Eagles, is contributing to keeping our Nation and 
national interests secure.
  The NDAA will authorize the resources and capabilities to ensure that 
the troops at Fort Campbell, as part of the joint force, are prepared 
to continue responding to threats against our Nation.
  Another Kentucky military installation is Fort Knox. With a 
distinguished history during both World Wars, Fort Knox has remained an 
essential Army facility with numerous responsibilities. Home to the 
Army's Cadet Command, Fort Knox hosts about 10,000 ROTC cadets every 
summer for Cadet Summer

[[Page S5244]]

Training. Fort Knox is also home to the Army's Recruiting Command--a 
critical mission for increasing readiness--and in 2009, the Army Human 
Resources Command center relocated to Fort Knox, bringing with it an 
entirely new mission. Responsible for career management and 
development, the Human Resources Command represents a fundamental part 
of the Army.
  The NDAA will reform the Pentagon to streamline administration, and 
it will also take action to improve troop morale and restructure the 
benefits that servicemembers and their families, like the many 
stationed in Kentucky, rely upon.
  Kentucky is also home to the Blue Grass Army Depot, located in 
Madison County. As a munitions storage and disposal site, the Blue 
Grass Army Depot is responsible for the maintenance, storage, and 
demilitarization of both conventional and legacy chemical weapons. For 
decades I have fought to ensure that Congress allocated necessary funds 
to this installation to support the continuation of safe 
demilitarization efforts.
  The NDAA will help us prepare for a wide range of threats, and 
munitions depots like the one in my State play an integral role in 
supporting our Nation's efforts to rebuild our military.
  I am also proud to represent the Kentucky Air and Army National 
Guard, including the 123rd Airlift Wing, which deployed to assist in 
the relief efforts of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma.
  Last week, I had the privilege of welcoming the National Guard 
Association of the United States to Louisville for their annual 
conference. These citizen soldiers and airmen have proved time and 
again that during a crisis at home or abroad, the National Guard is 
always ready.
  The NDAA legislation will authorize funds for military construction 
for National Guard units across the country, including in Kentucky to 
help the Guard carry out its critical missions.
  As we continue to debate this bill, I will be thinking of these men 
and women at these military installations in Kentucky and of the 
Kentucky National Guard. I will cast my vote for what will help them 
receive the equipment, training, and resources they need to address the 
threats facing our Nation.
  I know many colleagues feel the same way about their own States. I 
know many colleagues are determined to continue the hard work of 
rebuilding our military and restoring our combat readiness. Passing the 
bill before us will take us closer to that goal.
  Also, Mr. President, later today the Senate will vote to table an 
amendment that would rescind the authorization for the use of military 
force, or AUMF, which authorizes the operations of forces currently 
battling al-Qaida, ISIL, and associated forces. Sixteen years after the 
terrorist attacks of September 11, our enemies are not gone and our 
troops are still in harm's way.
  Ayman al-Zawahiri remains hidden somewhere in the tribal areas of 
Pakistan, and he continues to lead al-Qaida as he plots to kill 
Americans and strike our homeland. Al-Qaida's affiliates have proved to 
be resilient and lethal. Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula has not 
ceased attempting to kill Americans. Its online magazine, Inspire, 
created a manual for terrorists and set an early example for what ISIL 
perfected in the use of social media and propaganda.
  ISIL, of course, emerged from al-Qaida in Iraq, which continues to 
threaten the United States, as does the al-Nusrah Front.
  To rescind the AUMF that authorizes action against these forces--and 
to leave nothing but uncertainty for our deployed forces and our 
allies--is simply irresponsible, and it breaks faith with our volunteer 
force.
  Al-Qaida and its affiliates have not been defeated. The myriad 
programs and operations that rely upon the AUMF for legal authority 
have contributed to keeping America safe.
  Why would we vote to rescind the authority to defeat al-Qaida and 
leave our forces in the field questioning whether the elected officials 
here in Washington have any understanding as to what is occurring in 
the theaters of active hostilities? All that we do to defeat al-Qaida 
and ISIL rests on this AUMF.
  We honored those killed on September 11 earlier this week. Let's 
honor those pursuing terrorists by defeating this amendment and 
ensuring they have the tools they need to keep us safe.
  Once again, we have an all-volunteer force that protects all of us 
and fights for us. We cannot break faith with these brave men and women 
by removing the authority they rely upon to pursue the enemy and 
leaving them questioning whether elected officials in Washington 
understand what they are doing abroad.

                          ____________________



