

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7108]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           MEASURES REFERRED

  The following bills were read the first and the second times by 
unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

       H.R. 918. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish mental 
     health care to certain former members of the Armed Forces who 
     are not otherwise eligible to receive such care, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 1133. An act to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to authorize the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to provide for an operation on a live donor 
     for purposes of conducting a transplant procedure for a 
     veteran, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 1900. An act to designate the Veterans Memorial and 
     Museum in Columbus, Ohio, as the National Veterans Memorial 
     and Museum, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
       H.R. 2123. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the ability of health care professionals to treat 
     veterans through the use of telemedicine, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 2148. An act to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Act to clarify capital requirements for certain acquisition, 
     development, or construction loans; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
       H.R. 2601. An act to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to improve the access of veterans 
     to organ transplants, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 3634. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that individuals may access documentation verifying 
     the monthly housing stipend paid to the individual under the 
     Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
       H.R. 3897. An act to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for the issuance of the Gold Star Installation Access 
     Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, and other 
     next of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while 
     serving on certain active or reserve duty, to ensure that a 
     remarried surviving spouse with dependent children of the 
     deceased member remains eligible for installation benefits to 
     which the surviving spouse was previously eligible, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
       H.R. 3911. An act to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 with respect to risk-based examinations of Nationally 
     Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

                          ____________________



