

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7493]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   ESCALATING THREAT FROM NORTH KOREA

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Comer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about an issue that my 
constituents in the First District of Kentucky are following closely: 
the escalating threat from North Korea.
  The world has watched as the North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-un, has 
built up his country's nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles programs 
over the past several years.
  Just this month, North Korea conducted its sixth nuclear test--the 
largest one yet. This followed a series of missile tests that led U.S. 
intelligence analysts to conclude that the Kim regime is on the verge 
of developing a reliable intercontinental missile capable of carrying a 
nuclear weapon, a feat that officials previously did not expect would 
be possible for several more years.
  Clearly, this rogue state is moving full steam ahead toward its goal 
of becoming a nuclear power that cannot only threaten our allies and 
territories in the region, but also the American mainland.
  I have the utmost confidence in our military leaders, and I trust 
Secretary Mattis when he says that our existing missile defense systems 
have what it takes to keep our country safe from the North Korean 
threat. The American people can feel safe and secure, knowing that our 
military is protecting them and that their Representatives in Congress, 
like myself, are ready to provide whatever funding is needed to support 
the development and deployment of missile defense technology, both now 
and in the future.
  That being said, it is simply unacceptable to allow a leader like Kim 
Jong-un, who shows no regard for international norms or human rights, 
to gain valuable leverage and deterrent capability as a nuclear-armed 
state.
  I was encouraged to hear our Commander in Chief speak out forcefully 
against the ``forces of destruction'' that are gathering power in our 
world in his address to the United Nations last week. President Trump 
has made it clear to North Korea that denuclearization is the only path 
forward, and he has successfully mobilized the international community 
to impose strong sanctions that will help deprive the Kim regime of the 
resources it needs to continue its rush to nuclear weapons.
  This is a critical step forward, but make no mistake: the nuclear 
advancements that North Korea has been allowed to achieve in recent 
years pose a very serious threat to our Nation, our allies, and the 
international community overall. That is why we must stand firm now and 
be prepared to do whatever is necessary to protect our national 
security and that of our allies, including military action.
  I am proud that Congress is doing its part to support the Trump 
administration's efforts to counter the North Korean threat, including 
passing sanctions legislation that was enacted into law in August; and 
the North Korean Human Rights Reauthorization Act, which passed the 
House yesterday.
  We must continue to stand united, both as a country and with our 
international partners, to send a clear message to North Korea that its 
hostile behavior must end and that it must never be allowed to threaten 
the world with nuclear weapons.

                          ____________________



