

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6972-S6973]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 1,

[[Page S6973]]

2017, at 10 a.m., in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing on the following 
nominations: James Bridenstine, of Oklahoma, to be Administrator of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Dana Baiocco, of Ohio, 
to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and 
Nazakhtar Nikakhtar, of Maryland, and Neil Jacobs, of North Carolina, 
both to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 1, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., to vote on the following nominations: David J. Ryder, of 
New Jersey, to be Director of the Mint, Department of the Treasury, and 
Hester Maria Peirce, of Ohio, and Robert J. Jackson, Jr., of New York, 
both to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 1, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Scott 
Garrett, of New Jersey, to be President, Kimberly A. Reed, of West 
Virginia, to be First Vice President, Mark L. Greenblatt, of Maryland, 
to be Inspector General, and Spencer Bachus III, of Alabama, Judith 
Delzoppo Pryor, of Ohio, and Claudia Slacik, of New York, each to be a 
Member of the Board of Directors, all of the Export-Import Bank.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 1, 2017, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Irwin Steven Goldstein, 
of New York, to be Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy, Rebecca Eliza 
Gonzales, of Texas, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of Lesotho, Lisa A. 
Johnson, of Washington, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Namibia, 
James Randolph Evans, of Georgia, to be Ambassador to Luxembourg, and 
Sean P. Lawler, of Maryland, to be Chief of Protocol, and to have the 
rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service, all of the Department 
of State.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 1, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SD-226 to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Leonard 
Steven Grasz, of Nebraska, to be United States Circuit Judge for the 
Eighth Circuit, Terry A. Doughty, to be United States District Judge 
for the Western District of Louisiana, Terry Fitzgerald Moorer, to be 
United States District Judge for the Southern District of Alabama, and 
Mark Saalfield Norris, Sr., to be United States District Judge for the 
Western District of Tennessee.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 1, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in 
room SD-628 to conduct a hearing entitled ``Building Tribal economies: 
Modernizing tax policies that work for Indian country.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 1, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in 
room SH-216 to conduct a hearing entitled ``Social Media Influence in 
the 2016 U.S. Elections.''


 Subcommittee on Multilateral International Development, Multilateral 
  Institutions, and International Economic, Energy, and Environmental 
                                 Policy

  The Subcommittee on Multilateral International Development, 
Multilateral Institutions, and International Economic, Energy, and 
Environmental Policy of the Committee on Foreign Relations is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate Wednesday, November 
1, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing.

                          ____________________



