

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5478]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ALLIANCE TO SAVE ENERGY

 Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
achievements of the Alliance to Save Energy over its 40-year history of 
working with Presidents of both political parties and Members of 
Congress on both sides of the aisle to advance Federal energy 
efficiency policy.
  In 1977, Senators Charles Percy and Hubert Humphrey--a Republican 
from Illinois and a Democrat from Minnesota--founded the alliance as 
the leading energy efficiency coalition of businesses, governments, 
environmental groups, and consumer advocates. The goal of the alliance 
from the start has been simple: ``Use less and do more.'' In the wake 
of the oil embargoes and energy shortages of the 1970s, that message 
resonated loud and clear, and it still does.
  Energy efficiency is America's largest energy resource, contributing 
more to our Nation's energy needs over the last 40 years than any other 
fuel source. Without the economy-wide improvements in energy efficiency 
made since 1973, it is estimated that today's economy would require 60 
percent more energy than we consume now. In fact, savings from energy 
efficiency improvements over the last 40 years have reduced our 
national energy bill by an estimated $800 billion, all while growing 
and expanding our economy. Energy efficiency saves money, improves 
national security, reduces pollution, encourages innovation, boosts 
U.S. competitiveness, and creates jobs.
  For 40 years, the alliance has taken great care to cultivate and 
maintain bipartisan support for policies supporting energy efficiency. 
Maybe the best example--certainly for me the most personal example--is 
the alliance's steadfast support and continued advocacy for the Energy 
Savings and Industrial Competitiveness Act, bipartisan energy 
efficiency legislation I have introduced along with my friend and 
partner, Senator Rob Portman. They recognize, as I do, that to 
accomplish anything in Washington, you must have friends and supporters 
across the entire political spectrum. The alliance's commitment to 
bipartisanship is not simply rooted in their history, but is also as a 
matter of practicality. In a Congress that is divided along partisan 
lines on so many issues, energy efficiency is one priority that can 
bring us together on a bipartisan, bicameral basis to get big things 
done.
  The alliance also prides itself on its ability to bring businesses 
together alongside public and consumer advocates. The business case for 
energy efficiency is unimpeachable. Energy efficiency is the largest 
sector within the U.S. clean energy economy, employing nearly 2.2 
million Americans nationwide--the majority of whom work for small 
businesses. American companies are leading the way in innovation and 
technological advancements in lighting, appliances, and building 
materials, to name a few. By working collaboratively with businesses 
and consumer leaders, the alliance is helping to improve energy 
efficiency across all sectors of the economy and develop new ways to 
bring new products and services to market.
  Today the alliance is led by President Kateri Callahan, and the 
fiduciary board is chaired by Gil Quiniones, who is president and chief 
executive officer of the New York Power Authority. It is my privilege 
to serve as the honorary cochair of the alliance. I am joined by 
Honorary Vice Chairs Senators Rob Portman and Chris Coons, as well as 
Senators Lamar Alexander, Susan Collins, Ed Markey, Lisa Murkowski, 
Mark Warner, and Ron Wyden, as well as Representatives Michael Burgess, 
Adam Kinzinger, David McKinley, Dave Reichert, Paul Tonko, and Peter 
Welch. The alliance is rightfully proud of their storied bipartisan 
traditions, and this ideologically diverse and talented roster is a 
testament to the possibilities to make positive change when we listen 
to one another and work together.
  I would like to close today by recognizing the past contributions of 
members who previously served on the alliance honorary board: Senators 
Jeff Bingaman, Larry Craig, Alan Cranston, Byron Dorgan, John Heinz, 
Jim Jeffords, Bennett Johnston, Richard Lugar, Mark Pryor, Mark Udall, 
and Timothy Wirth, along with Representatives Ralph Hall, Steve Israel, 
John Edward Porter, and Zach Wamp. I had the good fortune of working 
alongside many of these distinguished public servants. I am proud to be 
part of the shared legacy of this collection of energy-efficiency 
champions.
  I congratulate the alliance on all they have accomplished since it 
was founded in 1977. Now, the alliance stands at the precipice of the 
next 40 years, which will undoubtedly usher in unforeseeable challenges 
and opportunities in the energy sector. I stand with them today, 
energized by their success so far, and ready for the next set of energy 
efficiency policies we need to succeed.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



