

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7011-S7012]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        REMEMBERING BERNARD SHAW

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, Bernard Shaw devoted his life to 
supporting Maine's family farms and to preserving our State's 
agricultural heritage. His recent passing at 88 years of

[[Page S7012]]

age was a great loss, but he left behind a legacy that will be 
cherished for generations to come.
  I rise today in tribute to this outstanding leader and to offer my 
deepest condolences to his wife Norma, family, and friends.
  Growing up in Aroostook County, the heart of Maine's potato industry, 
I saw every day the importance of family farms to our way of life and 
to our communities. Bernard was a leader in this iconic Aroostook 
industry.
  Born in Limestone, ME, near my hometown of Caribou, Bernard began 
farming with Norma's father, Herman Ward. In addition to helping to 
build a strong and successful family business, he served the industry 
in numerous agricultural organizations at the local, State, and 
national levels.
  Bernard served as Maine's commissioner of agriculture from 1988 to 
1996 during Governor McKernan's administration. During my own service 
in State government, I had the pleasure of working alongside Bernard, a 
leader of uncommon energy, intelligence, and dedication.
  During their 67 years of marriage, in both Aroostook County and our 
State capital of Augusta, Bernard and Norma were active volunteers in 
their community, serving youth programs, civic organizations, schools, 
and their church. Upon Bernard's retirement in 1996, the couple devoted 
countless hours to the Augusta Food Bank, helping their neighbors in 
need throughout the capital region.
  In 2012, Bernard and Norma were honored with the Maine Agriculture 
Commissioner's Distinguished Service Award. The citation accompanying 
that award described them as ``two of the most accomplished, yet 
humble, contributors to Maine's agricultural community'' who 
personified the traditional, hard-working Maine farm family.
  Bernard Shaw was guided by the traditions that define Maine, and he 
strengthened them for the future. His invaluable contributions to 
agriculture and to our State will be deeply missed, but he will long be 
remembered for his leadership and vision.
  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today we remember the life of Bernard 
``Bernie'' Shaw, who passed away earlier this year at the age of 88. As 
a lifelong resident of Maine, a wonderful husband and father to three, 
and a champion for agriculture, future generations will continue to 
remember Bernie by the lasting impact he has left on the State.
  Originally from Limestone, Bernie attend the Limestone schools and 
later the University of Maine. It was after this that he met his 
beloved wife, Norma. In over 65 years of marriage, Bernie and Norma 
raised three children--Steve, Susan, and Sara--all while running a 
successful family farm and giving back to their community in numerous 
ways.
  Bernie first began farming with Norma's father, Herman Ward, and 
eventually took over the family business, before moving to Augusta in 
1987. From 1988 to 1994, Bernie served the State of Maine as the 
commissioner of agriculture. Over the years, he served on local, State, 
and national level agriculture committees, drawing from his own 
experience as a former Aroostook County potato farmer. Only a few out 
of the many groups he championed for, Bernie devoted his time to the 
Maine Potato Council, the Maine Potato Board, the Agricultural 
Bargaining Council, and the Land For Maine's Future Board.
  After retiring, Bernie devoted much of his time to volunteering at 
the Augusta Food Bank, and the Windsor Fair. He was honored for this 
commitment back in 2012, when he received the Agriculture 
Commissioner's Distinguished Service Award, along with his wife, Norma. 
Both were lauded for their weekly efforts with the food bank and their 
success in expanding the number of families able to be helped.
  Bernie Shaw represented in so many ways the values we hold dear in 
Maine: family, faith, community, service, and tradition. We have much 
to be thankful for in Maine because of Bernie's dedication and service 
to the State, and he will be deeply missed by many.

                          ____________________



