

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7679]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               RECOGNITION OF NATIONAL MANUFACTURING DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia). The Chair 
recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, this Friday is National 
Manufacturing Day. We celebrate Manufacturing Day annually in order to 
recognize the manufacturing industry's part in the growth and 
prosperity of the United States economy, as well as raise awareness of 
the important investment and career opportunities within the 
manufacturing sector.
  Manufacturing Day started in 2012 as an annual celebration of modern 
manufacturing meant to inspire the next generation of manufacturers, 
and it has done just that. According to a 2016 survey of students who 
attended Manufacturing Day events, 89 percent were more aware of 
manufacturing jobs in their communities; 84 percent were more convinced 
that manufacturing provides careers that are interesting and rewarding; 
64 percent were more motivated to pursue careers in manufacturing; and 
71 percent were more likely to tell friends, family, parents, or 
colleagues about manufacturing after attending the event.
  Mr. Speaker, the manufacturing industry impacts every community in 
the United States, and that is certainly true for Pennsylvania's Fifth 
Congressional District. Pennsylvania has a rich history of being a 
manufacturing leader, especially our storied Pennsylvania Steel. The 
Commonwealth has been an important cog in the wheels of this country's 
industrial revolution thanks to industries like iron, coal, and lumber, 
in addition to steel.
  Our Pennsylvania farmers have fed and continue to feed generations of 
Americans, providing safe and nutritious food for all our neighbors.
  From heritage companies to newer rising stars, we have a wide cross-
section of products produced in the Fifth District of Pennsylvania, and 
Mr. Speaker, I would like to highlight just a few.
  Brookville Equipment Corporation in Jefferson County is the leading 
American manufacturer of diesel locomotive engines, street trolleys, 
and mining machinery. Brookville's mass transit resume includes fully 
refurbishing streetcars for cities, including New Orleans, 
Philadelphia, and San Francisco.
  Since 1889, W.R. Case & Sons Cutlery Company has been fashioning 
handcrafted pocketknives and sporting knives in McKean County.
  Zippo Manufacturing Company, makers of the world famous Zippo 
windproof lighter, owns Case Knives today. Zippo is another family-
owned business, based in the city of Bradford, McKean County, since 
1936.
  Major leaguers have been swinging our fine Pennsylvania hardwoods 
thanks to Jefferson County company BWP Bats. BWP's slogan is ``Built 
With Pride.''
  Huntingdon County's Bonney Forge has a state-of-the-art forge 
facility capable of manufacturing our entire line of forged steel 
fitting and forged steel valve products since 1875.
  A new manufacturer is DiamondBack Truck Covers. Two Penn State 
students started this company in their garage in 2003. They make heavy-
duty, utility-oriented, diamond plate aluminum truck bed covers for 
pickup trucks in Philipsburg, Pennsylvania, in Centre County.
  Mr. Speaker, this is just a handful of the manufacturers in my 
district who produce quality, American-made products. As co-chair of 
the Career and Technical Education Caucus, I am proud that the 
manufacturing industry employs scores of career and technical education 
students in family-sustaining careers. These are great family-
sustaining jobs.
  As we celebrate National Manufacturing Day on Friday and draw 
attention to the roles manufacturers play in our communities, I commend 
all those who keep our economy booming through manufacturing.

                          ____________________



