

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6716]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 283

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 283, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for the treatment of veterans who 
participated in the cleanup of Enewetak Atoll as radiation exposed 
veterans for purposes of the presumption of service-connection of 
certain disabilities by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 322, a bill to protect victims of domestic violence, 
sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence from emotional and 
psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or threats of violence 
against their pets.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to 
amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving 
through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and to require the provision of advance electronic 
information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 916

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 916, a bill to 
amend the Controlled Substances Act with regard to the provision of 
emergency medical services.


                                S. 1016

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1016, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to expand access to telehealth services, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1073

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was withdrawn as a cosponsor 
of S. 1073, a bill to authorize Escambia County, Florida, to convey 
certain property that was formerly part of Santa Rosa Island National 
Monument and that was conveyed to Escambia County subject to 
restrictions on use and reconveyance.


                                S. 1370

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1370, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to revise and extend projects 
relating to children and violence to provide access to school-based 
comprehensive mental health programs.


                                S. 1421

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1421, a bill to support 
educational entities in fully implementing title IX and reducing and 
preventing sex discrimination in all areas of education.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1589, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act to expand the 
availability of employee stock ownership plans in S corporations, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to 
amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of 
that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users 
of interactive computer services of Federal and State criminal and 
civil law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1787

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1787, a bill 
to reauthorize the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1839

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1839, a bill to amend the 
Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 to extend and expand the market access 
program and the foreign market development cooperator program.


                                S. 1893

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1893, a bill to 
amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to 
specify when bank holding companies may be subject to certain enhanced 
supervision, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1942

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1942, a bill to direct the Attorney General to 
review, revise, and develop law enforcement and justice protocols 
appropriate to address missing and murdered Indians, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1970

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1970, a bill to 
establish a public health plan.


                              S.J. RES. 47

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 47, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Arbitration Agreements''.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the 
Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), 
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. 
Inhofe) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 139, a resolution 
condemning the Government of Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its 
Baha'i minority and its continued violation of the International 
Covenants on Human Rights.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a resolution condemning 
horrific acts of violence against Burma's Rohingya population and 
calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active role in ending this 
humanitarian tragedy.


                              S. RES. 295

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 295, a resolution 
designating October 2017 as ``National Employee Ownership Month''.

                          ____________________



