

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7005-S7011]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session and resume consideration of the Engel 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read the nomination of Steven Andrew Engel, of 
the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General.


                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader is recognized.


                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
of November 2, which notwithstands rule XXII, be modified to have all 
executive session cloture motions ripen following the disposition of 
the Gibson nomination; further, that if cloture is invoked on the Engel 
nomination, the time postcloture be counted as if invoked at 5:30 p.m. 
on Monday.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                       Texas Church Mass Shooting

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, for most Americans, a church is a place 
of worship and love, a place where the faithful go to feel mercy and 
compassion, which is why what happened in Texas yesterday is so 
difficult for many to comprehend. Why would an individual do this? 
Families lost so much. Our hearts go out to them in this time of untold 
grief. Our gratitude goes out to the civilians and first responders who 
answer the call when others are in need.
  As we continue to learn the details of yesterday's tragic events, I, 
along with all Members of the Senate, will keep the victims of this 
tragedy and their families in my prayers.
  Mr. President, on a completely different matter, last Monday I said 
the Senate would confirm four excellent judicial nominees by the end of 
the week. That is just what we did--Amy Barrett, confirmed; Joan 
Larsen, confirmed; Allison Eid, confirmed; Stephanos Bibas, confirmed.
  After 8 years of a President who selected judges based upon an 
ideological litmus test designed to find nominees who favor certain 
groups or individuals over others, we now have a President who is 
sending over nominees who will ensure that the judiciary is actually 
living up to the role we expect in our democracy: treating everyone 
equally, giving every litigant a fair shake, applying the law as it is 
actually written, not as the judge wishes it might be. The four circuit 
court nominees the Senate confirmed last week will do just that.
  Democrats have put up a lot of procedural roadblocks to prevent the 
Senate from moving forward all year. We have moved ahead anyway. As a 
result, despite all the obstacles from the other side, we are making 
significant progress.
  Of course, none of this would be possible without the hard work and 
notable leadership of Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, and 
I want to thank him again for everything he has done.
  We are not finished yet. We are going to keep pressing forward on 
judicial nominees. We are going to keep confirming the other nominees 
before us as well.
  This week the Senate will consider some of President Trump's other 
qualified nominees for various positions throughout the Federal 
Government. Each of these individuals will help lead their agencies to 
fulfill their particular mission in running the government.
  First, we will advance the nomination of Steven Engel to serve as 
Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel. Mr. Engel 
previously worked in the OLC, having done so under President Bush. He 
also served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General

[[Page S7006]]

and counsel to the Assistant Attorney General. He obviously has a lot 
of experience advising senior policymakers on a wide variety of legal 
issues facing the executive branch. That is good because the role he 
has been nominated to has the responsibility for providing legal advice 
to the executive branch on all constitutional questions and reviewing 
pending legislation for constitutionality.
  I look forward to advancing Mr. Engel's nomination tomorrow so that 
he can begin putting his experience to work for our country as soon as 
possible, and then we will turn to the various other nominees before us 
so they can begin doing the same. Confirming the President's nominees 
is an important part of the Senate's business, and I urge all of our 
colleagues to work together so we can get this done.


                               Tax Reform

  Now on one final matter, Mr. President, today our colleagues on the 
House Ways and Means Committee began marking up the tax reform 
legislation they unveiled last week. Under Chairman Brady's leadership, 
the committee is continuing its work to get our economy reaching again 
for its true potential. This is yet more momentum for our country's 
once-in-a-generation opportunity to update the tax system, deliver 
relief to hard-working American families, and get our economy creating 
more opportunities and prosperity.
  Under Chairman Hatch's leadership, the Senate Finance Committee is 
continuing to move forward on its own legislation to increase 
opportunity and to provide more take-home pay for American families. In 
an open process through regular order, members of the committee will 
continue to have input in the writing of this tax reform legislation.
  Both Chambers are working with the President and his team to overhaul 
our country's complex and outdated tax system. We are united around a 
commonsense set of goals to make taxes lower, simpler, and fairer; take 
more money out of Washington's pockets and put more money in the 
pockets of America's middle class; and level the playing field for 
American workers and businesses so they can compete against foreign 
competitors on an equal footing and not only create more jobs in 
America but keep them here too. These are goals shared by so many 
across our country regardless of party.
  It is time to deliver real tax relief for hard-working families, and 
we are going to keep working together to do just that.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                       Texas Church Mass shooting

  Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the mass 
shooting in Texas yesterday--the latest mass shooting in what seems 
like never-ending gun violence in our country. My heart breaks for the 
victims and their families and for the community of Sutherland Springs 
in Texas.
  We are still gathering all the facts about this specific crime. We 
are still learning about what happened, how this murderer was able to 
purchase a gun, whatever his twisted rationale was for walking into a 
house of worship in a small town and slaughtering more than 20 people, 
including young children, with an assault weapon. Our incredible law 
enforcement officials are working hard to answer all of that, but the 
most important fact of all is something we already know very well. This 
was yet another case where someone on American soil who had absolutely 
no business getting his hands on a weapon of war was able to get one 
and use it to commit heinous mass murder.

  Of the five worst mass shootings in our history, three of them have 
occurred in just the past 17 months. Think about that. In a small town 
in America, nearly 7 percent of the town's population was slaughtered 
just because they went to church that day. The weapon he used was based 
on a military weapon designed for a war zone, but this was not a war 
zone. It was a church. People were singing and praying and savoring 
life.
  I reject the notion that it is too soon to act. If not now, then 
when? We should ban assault weapons and bump stocks today. People who 
don't want to have an honest conversation say we need to wait. Well, 
for how long? Because we wait, and we wait, and we will see evil rear 
its ugly head over and over again, and we are told to wait again.
  We have enough information today for Congress to do its job and try 
to keep our constituents safe from gun violence. We had enough 
information before yesterday to act, but what Congress does not have is 
the political will to act. My friends, this must change. Thoughts and 
prayers are not going to stop the next mass shooting. Merely talking 
about doing something about the mentally ill obtaining guns isn't going 
to stop the next deranged person with hate in their soul from 
committing yet another mass murder. The Second Amendment does not mean 
that Americans should have to risk getting shot because they walked 
down the wrong street in a city or decided to go to a music festival in 
Las Vegas or a night club in Orlando or an elementary school in Newtown 
or a movie theater in Aurora or a church on Sunday in Texas.
  After each of these horrific acts of violence, what happened here in 
Congress? Nothing. More than a month after Las Vegas, we still can't 
even tackle the most obvious fixes like banning bump stocks. Plain and 
simple, Americans are being slaughtered and Congress is refusing to 
protect them.
  I hear my colleagues who rightly say we can't pass laws to stop every 
instance of a deranged gunman who wants to kill innocent men, women, 
and children, just like our other criminal laws will not necessarily 
stop every instance of crime, but there is no excuse for not even 
trying. Everyone in this Chamber knows that a shooting in a church is 
something that should never happen in this country. Mr. President, I 
think you would agree with that. I think everyone who serves in this 
Chamber would agree with that. So then why aren't we doing anything to 
stop this violence? Why aren't we making it harder for a crazed, evil 
person to get their hands on a weapon of war?
  It makes me wonder what our colleagues are waiting for. Are they 
waiting for the NRA to come in and give them cover and tell them it is 
OK to act? Are they waiting for the NRA to give them permission to 
stand up and do something? If the NRA said today assault rifles or bump 
stocks should be banned, it would be done tomorrow. That is the sad 
truth of this place, but we know the NRA will not say that because they 
want to keep selling these weapons of war to anyone who is willing to 
buy them, no matter how unsafe it makes it for the rest of us.
  Congress has caved in over and over again to the enormous pressure by 
the NRA and the gun industry--which just wants to protect their 
profits--and has ignored the vast majority of Americans. Gun owners and 
nongun owners alike support commonsense measures to keep their fellow 
Americans safe.
  These mass slaughters continue, and Congress has done nothing--
absolutely nothing. To me, this is a monumental failure of leadership, 
and it is no wonder that gun violence and mass shootings happen here at 
a higher rate than any other developed country in the world. This has 
to change. It is not enough to solve the individual crime after the 
fact. We have to take meaningful, real action to prevent the next one. 
This is what has to happen. To those who doubt that Congress can 
actually get something done, we already know that, depending on the 
motivation, depending on whom Congress is actually listening to, 
Congress is fully capable of moving quickly to enact change. Instead of 
acting like its hands are tied and refusing to do anything--which is 
what is happening right now--far more often than not, Congress listens 
to the special interests instead of the people who actually elect them 
to keep them safe.
  Look at the shameful state of our gun laws now and tell me if you 
think these laws came about because families in our States demanded 
them or was it because the NRA demanded them? Congress has turned a 
collective back on strengthening and expanding our national background 
check system. We should be fixing the holes in the system--whatever is 
necessary--not just

[[Page S7007]]

shrugging our shoulders and saying there is nothing that can be done. 
Who do you think demanded that we don't fix the background check 
system? Was it families in your State or was it the NRA? Congress 
refuses to ban high-capacity magazines, which are literally made for 
war, and let killers fire dozens of rounds without having to stop and 
reload. Who do you think demanded that, families or the NRA?
  Congress still refuses to ban assault weapons, which are designed for 
war--designed to kill as many people as possible as rapidly as possible 
but are given different names so they can be sold in the civilian 
world. Who do you think demanded that, our families or the NRA?
  Congress is on the verge of passing legislation to make it easier 
right now for killers to buy suppressers, known by many of us as 
silencers, to attach to their weapons and make it harder for the police 
to do their jobs and catch violent criminals. Who do you think demanded 
that? Certainly not the police and not our families--the NRA.
  Congress is dragging its feet on banning bump stocks, the inexpensive 
piece of equipment the killer in Las Vegas used to turn its already-
powerful firearm into an automatic weapon capable of firing hundreds of 
rounds per minute. Who do you think demanded that, families or the NRA?
  Just this February, Congress overturned a rule that had prevented 
people who were so incapacitated that they could no longer handle their 
own finances from getting their hands on a gun. Who do you think 
demanded that, families or the NRA?
  Congress even went so far as to pass a law that blocked the Centers 
for Disease Control from studying the issue of gun deaths the way they 
are allowed to study any other cause of death in this country. Why? 
Because it is an attempt to hide the overwhelming data showing that 
keeping guns out of the hands of dangerous people would decrease gun 
crime. Who do you think demanded that? Who do you think demanded that 
Congress suppress the facts and the alarming data about gun violence? 
Do you think it was families or the NRA?
  This really has to change. Congress needs to start protecting the 
people we were elected to represent. Their voices matter, and it really 
does matter whom you are listening to. Their voices matter, and they 
must be heard. We must listen and enact change that would actually help 
to keep our States safer from gun violence. We are the ones who need to 
act. We can't ignore our responsibility to keep our country safe from 
this kind of violence.
  To all the people who are watching us right now, I would say this: 
After all these massacres, pay attention to what your elected leaders 
are saying. Pay attention to what they are actually doing. Watch how 
they react. Look closely at how they use their time here. Listen to 
what they say or don't say. After these mass shootings, did they tell 
you we were going to bow our heads for a moment of silence and leave it 
there or did they tell you we were going to fight with every bit of 
energy to actually fix these broken gun laws and protect our American 
citizens?
  Democracy only works when regular people stand up and demand action. 
I urge everyone listening today to demand that action and to hold 
elected leaders accountable and to ask them to pass meaningful gun 
reform now.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Texas.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, today we join the stunned community of 
Sutherland Springs, TX--a small town near San Antonio--in mourning the 
loss of too many innocent lives. One innocent life is too many.
  I listened to the impassioned comments of our colleague from New York 
asking us to do something, but I actually think it is important we 
understand exactly what did happen, and once the fog of this terrible 
tragic event lifts, after the law enforcement agencies can do the 
appropriate investigation, then I think it is appropriate for us to 
ask: What can we do, consistent with the Constitution and laws of the 
United States--what can we do to make something like this less likely?
  I wish I was optimistic there was some magic wand we could wave and 
that we could prevent terrible tragedies like this, but in a free and 
open society, unfortunately, we don't have that magic wand.
  On the other hand, we have arrived at a consensus, I think, in this 
country, that background checks, for example, are appropriate for 
people suffering from mental illness, people who committed previous 
felonies. Those people are banned from possessing or purchasing 
firearms, and there is a consensus that they should be banned.
  There are some early reports--and, again, the fog of this terrible 
tragedy has not yet lifted. We need clarity in order to know what did 
and did not happen and where we might be able to act to make a 
difference. There is some indication by some news reports that this 
individual had committed domestic violence and had been convicted of 
that by a court-martial. That, too, would likely have been a 
disqualifying factor in his ability to possess or purchase firearms. So 
we need to know exactly what the facts are.
  I appreciate the passion of our colleague from New York. We are all 
stunned by what happened, but I think being rational people, we ought 
to want to know exactly what the facts are before we decide what the 
best course of action might be. It may be that, like we saw a few years 
back at Virginia Tech, an individual who had previously been 
adjudicated mentally ill, that determination, that judgment was not 
entered into the National Instant Background Checks System run by the 
FBI, and because it wasn't--because of a failure of communication 
between the State and Federal authorities--he was able to purchase a 
firearm when he was legally disqualified from being able to do so.
  So those are the sorts of things I think we could work together on. I 
know, for example, after the terrible shooting in Las Vegas, I was 
shocked, like so many others were, that somebody could essentially 
bypass the prohibition against making a semiautomatic weapon into an 
automatic weapon by the use of the so-called bump stock. As somebody 
who enjoys the outdoors and is a hunter and enjoys recreational 
shooting, I can tell you I know of no sportsman, no hunter, who uses a 
bump stock. It seems to me the sole purpose of this is to bypass the 
prohibition about turning semiautomatic weapons into automatic weapons. 
That is something I hope the Senate Judiciary Committee will continue 
to look into and determine whether the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
Firearms ought to be extended the authority to regulate the so-called 
bump stocks.
  Back when President Obama was President of the United States, the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms said they did not believe they 
had the authority, but several of us have written to them and asked 
them to clarify for us just where they think they do have authority and 
where they feel they need additional authority so we can work with 
them, hopefully, to prevent terrible tragedies like that from occurring 
in the future.
  Yesterday we all received the news that a gunman opened fire on 
parishioners at First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, TX, killing 
at least 26 people during the Sunday morning church service. I can't 
imagine a more vulnerable time. People were sitting in the pews with 
their heads bowed and their eyes closed and then were exposed to this 
madman unleashing death in that house of worship. The victims included 
young children and a pregnant woman, among others. All 26 of them are 
now gone, aged 18 months to 72 years old.
  This small community and an entire Nation must now bind its wounds as 
we mourn the dead and meet the face of evil with moral clarity and a 
newfound determination to stem the violence that continues to plague 
the United States of the America.
  We saw in New York that somebody used a vehicle--a car--to mow down 
people and to kill people as an act of terrorism.
  We are vulnerable in so many ways because we are an open society. 
Unfortunately, these sorts of tragedies seem to come back to us time 
and again, and we in Texas are not immune.
  We remember the knife attack at the University of Texas in Austin 
earlier this year. We remember the shooting of police officers in 
downtown Dallas last year, where five police officers perished, and at 
Fort Hood in 2009. Each of

[[Page S7008]]

these events has been shocking, inexplicable, and, certainly, 
reprehensible.
  This tragedy may be the worst of all. That this event occurred in a 
house of worship makes it all the more grotesque and despicable. Hymns 
of praise were silenced, and those led to cries for help.
  The shooting in Sutherland Springs has been called the deadliest mass 
shooting in Texas history. It is perhaps better understood by the words 
of one man whose mother and father were both killed yesterday. He was 
sitting on the curb, outside the emergency room, at Connally Memorial 
Medical Center in Floresville, a town nearby. Shaken to the core, he 
called the events of yesterday ``unimaginable.'' It is impossible to 
comprehend what it must have felt like to wake up this morning in 
Sutherland Springs--a small, tight-knit, rural community that is 
roughly 35 miles southeast of San Antonio--with so many neighbors lost 
and the sound of yesterday's gunfire and sirens still ringing in the 
air.
  One of the people who lost her life was Crystal Holcombe, who died 
with her unborn child and several relatives. Another was Annabelle 
Pomeroy, a shy 14-year-old girl, whose uncle describes her as an 
``angel in the flesh.''
  We know, thankfully, that two Good Samaritans turned on and pursued 
the shooter and may have prevented this nightmare from lasting even 
longer. We are grateful for the heroism and the quick decisive action 
of these two men. We know that about 20 injured remain in hospitals, 
including a 5-year-old, Ryland Ward, who was shot multiple times.
  Yesterday I spoke with Texas Governor Greg Abbott and Wilson County 
Sheriff Joe Tackitt, Jr., and offered not only my condolences but my 
unequivocal and complete support. Sheriff Tackitt said that the bloody 
scene inside First Baptist was horrific, but that the response to the 
tragedy was instantaneous. First responders from the surrounding area, 
as well as State and Federal officials, inundated Sutherland Springs 
with logistical resources and personnel, offering their love and 
compassion, as well--a proud display of what I often see, which is an 
attitude that being a Texan doesn't describe just where you are from. 
It describes who your family is.
  Today I join the sheriff, as well as Governor Abbott, and my friend 
Representative Henry Cuellar, in whose congressional district this 
tragedy occurred, my colleague in the Senate, Senator Cruz, and so many 
other Texans in asking God for healing and for understanding.
  We know the investigation into exactly what happened and why is 
ongoing, and it is important that we allow this investigation to be 
completed so we can know what happened and exactly what we might be 
able to do to prevent tragedies like this from occurring in the future.
  I hope that Texans who call Sutherland Springs and First Baptist 
Church home will soon have some answers. I send my thoughts and prayers 
to those who lost parents, children, friends, and relatives in this 
outrageous and inhuman act. I hope each of us will pledge to be a light 
in the darkness. To the families whose lives are forever changed by 
this atrocity, let us provide a strong shoulder of support.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Ernst). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  (The remarks of Ms. Collins and Ms. Cortez Masto pertaining to the 
introduction of S. 2076 are printed in today's Record under 
``Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions.'')
  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. DAINES. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. DAINES. Madam President, today the U.S. House of Representatives 
begins marking up H.R. 1, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, and as the U.S. 
Senate continues to debate tax cuts, I am reminded of a speech that 
former Democratic President John F. Kennedy delivered in New York City 
in 1962. In fact, it was in December of 1962, when he said:

       In short, it is a paradoxical truth that tax rates are too 
     high today and tax revenues are too low and the soundest way 
     to raise the revenues in the long run is to cut the rates 
     now. The experience of a number of European countries and 
     Japan have borne this out. This country's own experience with 
     tax reduction in 1954 has borne this out. And the reason is 
     that only full employment can balance the budget, and tax 
     reduction can pave the way to that employment. The purpose of 
     cutting taxes now is not to incur a budget deficit, but to 
     achieve the more prosperous, expanding economy which can 
     bring a budget surplus.

  President Kennedy went on to say:

       I repeat: our practical choice is not between a tax-cut 
     deficit and a budgetary surplus. It is between two kinds of 
     deficits: a chronic deficit of inertia, as the unwanted 
     result of inadequate revenues and a restricted economy; or a 
     temporary deficit of transition, resulting from a tax cut 
     designed to boost the economy, increase tax revenues, and 
     achieve--and I believe this can be done--a budget surplus. 
     The first type of deficit is a sign of waste and weakness; 
     the second reflects an investment in the future.

  If someone had just tuned in, they might think I was quoting, 
perhaps, President Reagan or perhaps some other Republican leader. This 
was President John F. Kennedy in 1962.
  We need to cut taxes once again and put money back into the pockets 
of the American people. I can state that Montanans need more jobs, but, 
importantly, we need better paying jobs. Most importantly, they need 
bigger paychecks. The best way to give Montanans a pay raise--how about 
cutting their taxes? We need tax cuts.


                       Texas Church Mass Shooting

  Madam President, separately, I just want to express my sincere and 
heartfelt sympathies to the people of Sutherland Springs, TX. What a 
devastating turn of events there--men, women, and children showing up 
for worship on a Sunday in a church. This was an act of pure evil.
  My wife Cindy and I are praying for the victims, their families, and 
the community that has been changed forever.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Daines). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                       Natural Gas Liquid Storage

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I would like to talk about an issue in my 
State of West Virginia--really my region--that is becoming very 
important, I think, to this country's energy security and prosperity.
  As we know, West Virginia has extensive natural gas liquid resources. 
Nearly a century ago, when these resources were discovered, the rapid 
growth that followed turned Central West Virginia into a national hub 
for the petrochemical industry. You know what, we have never looked 
back.
  Today, chemistry remains our State's second largest industry and 
directly impacts other major sectors like energy, biomedical 
engineering, and manufacturing. West Virginia is home to 140 different 
chemical companies that employ nearly 13,000 workers. West Virginia's 
share of GDP from the chemical industry is the sixth largest in the 
country, and these products are about one-quarter of our State's major 
international exports. We still have one of the highest concentrations 
of chemical, polymer, and resin manufacturers in the world.
  The sector is sort of a microcosm of the challenges and opportunities 
facing this important American industry during a time of fierce 
international competition. Estimates show, more than 100,000 workers in 
West Virginia already have the industrial skills to fill jobs in this 
sector, and there are thousands more who could easily be retrained to 
fill these jobs in this important industry. With our region's abundance 
of natural gas from Marcellus

[[Page S7009]]

and Utica shale, West Virginia is perfectly positioned for a massive 
increase of economic growth and new jobs.

  Natural gas liquids provide the building blocks for many of the 
products used by our consumers every single day--products ranging from 
the dashboard in your car or the water bottle that many of us use. 
Right now, we don't have the right infrastructure in place to store and 
distribute the building blocks that make up these products. As a 
result, these valuable resources are being used to generate heat and 
electricity, instead of being made into consumer products. As Energy 
Secretary Perry put it, that's like cooking your breakfast over a fire 
of hundred dollar bills. This represents a huge opportunity to act on 
this administration's ``America First'' energy policy. It is an 
opportunity to grow an industry here at home with an American workforce 
and America's natural resources.
  To elevate these issues in Congress, I am proud to serve as the 
cochair of the bipartisan Senate Chemistry Caucus. We host briefings 
about the importance of this industry to America's economy and national 
security. States that may not have robust petrochemical sectors, 
nonetheless, rely on its products for manufacturing, agriculture, and 
several other key industries.
  For months--I would say more than months, years--I have been 
advancing the development of an Appalachian natural gas liquids market 
to improve our storage and distribution capabilities. New drilling 
technologies have unlocked access to trillions upon trillions of cubic 
feet of natural gas and their associated liquids in West Virginia, 
Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Kentucky. Some of our most downtrodden economic 
areas have this valuable asset right there.
  Unpredicted just a decade ago, this asset can create a renaissance in 
the region's petrochemical industry, but this can only happen if 
policymakers and the private sector seize this once-in-a-generation 
opportunity. To do that, we need to create a natural gas liquid storage 
hub in Central Appalachia. The concept of this new hub is simple. Right 
now, because we don't have a way to store these liquids, we are unable 
to fully maximize this resource. That hurts producers, refiners, and 
our manufacturers in the State of West Virginia, and Ohio, and beyond.
  A storage hub and the necessary pipeline infrastructure would create 
a robust Appalachian market for natural gas liquids. This would have 
major national benefits, and here is why. Let's think about the 
hurricane that just occurred and devastated our friends in Texas. The 
gulf--and particularly Houston and the storage hub at Mont Belvieu, 
TX--dominate the domestic market there. Hurricane Harvey knocked out as 
much as 60 percent of that supply. It knocked it offline, and it took a 
month to get the hub back up and running. By establishing an 
Appalachian storage hub away from Hurricane Alley, we would add 
redundancy that protects our economy and our national security. Having 
all this storage capacity in only one region of the country only drives 
up production costs for American manufacturers. I would also add that 
this resource is in Appalachia. Appalachia should have this storage hub 
to be able to capitalize and create the jobs right in our own 
neighborhood.
  As Appalachia has become a robust producer of natural gas liquids, 
pipelines that used to flow from the gulf to the Northeast have been 
reversed. They are now sent to the gulf for storage and refining. It is 
sent back as ethylene to the interior of the country--often Appalachia 
itself--and to the Midwest for manufacturing. This back-and-forth 
obviously drives up prices for the goods you buy every day, from 
furniture to toys, to cars.
  To be clear, development of an Appalachian hub would not come at the 
expense of the gulf's market. It is a comparative advantage. The 
Appalachian hub can more efficiently serve many of the domestic 
manufacturers, while the gulf can expand its export capacity. Besides 
making the national market more efficient and resilient, an Appalachian 
market will drive significant development in a region that desperately 
needs a boost.
  A recent study found that the Appalachian States of West Virginia, 
Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Kentucky would see as much as $35.8 million in 
new capital investment, creating more than 100,000 jobs by 2025 with 
this new hub.
  When Secretary Perry accepted my invitation and visited West Virginia 
in July, the development of an Appalachian natural gas liquid storage 
hub and market was a great topic of emphasis. The Secretary met with 
several business leaders as part of a roundtable discussion to discuss 
paths forward in developing a regional ethane market. Needless to say, 
the Secretary saw the obvious benefits of such a project and that the 
hub could play a key role in the administration's related goals of 
rejuvenating the Appalachian economy and achieving an ``America First'' 
energy policy.
  The Secretary and I have discussed how best to bring this public-
private partnership to life since his visit to West Virginia. I think 
all of my colleagues--particularly those representing Appalachia--
should be as excited about this concept as the Secretary and I are. 
Several private entities are undertaking that initial development work 
right now, with interest coming from both domestic and foreign 
investors.
  I have been engaging frequently with Secretary Perry and with 
Commerce Secretary Ross about making this storage hub a reality. The 
Trump administration understands the importance of this project to the 
economies of West Virginia and the region. I appreciate their efforts 
to help move our State forward beyond the economic disasters we have 
had over the last several years. I will continue my advocacy for this 
enormous economic development opportunity and encourage my colleagues--
not just from the States I mentioned but all around the country--to 
join as partners in this effort.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Ohio.


                        Nomination of Peter Robb

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, this morning I drove from Cleveland to 
Youngstown. I was in Youngstown, OH--Mahoning Valley--at Teamsters 
Local 377 talking to workers. There were maybe 200 of them in the room, 
mostly retirees who are in danger of having their pensions cut--
pensions they earned over a lifetime of hard work.
  To understand how that happens, when workers are at the bargaining 
table, whether it is Teamsters, electricians, Steelworkers or SCIU, 
they so often are willing to give up wages today in order to have a 
secure retirement in 5 years, 10 years, 20 years, 30 years.
  That is what these workers chose to do. They chose to give up wages. 
Whether they worked for Schwebel's in Youngstown, whether they worked 
for Roadway, over the road, whether they were working for any number of 
companies, they were willing, at the bargaining table, to give up 
higher wages today to have money to set aside that was then invested 
often in Wall Street. We will get to that in a minute. It is bad enough 
Wall Street squandered those workers' money. It is worse that the 
government that is supposed to look out for these workers simply isn't 
doing it. One of the retired workers, Ed Barker, told us: We did our 
part. Now it is time for Members of Congress to cross party lines and 
do theirs.
  We talk a good game in this body about how we respect workers and 
respect their work, but I am not sure we always live that. If we really 
value a hard day's work in this country, we start by keeping our 
promise to these hard-working Ohioans, Virginians, Montanans, and all 
over this country. We keep our promise to those hard-working people in 
our country, but we can't end there. That is just the beginning of what 
we need to do to ensure that hard work pays off for ordinary Americans.
  During his campaign, Candidate Trump made a lot of big promises to 
workers in Ohio. He ran some of his big rallies across our State. He 
made big promises to workers in Ohio and across the country. He told 
them he would put American workers first. Well, the White House today 
looks like a retreat for Wall Street executives, and many of the people 
the President has put in charge have a record of doing the opposite of 
putting American workers first.
  That is certainly true of Peter Robb, the nominee to serve as the 
general

[[Page S7010]]

counsel of the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Robb has spent his 
career working to strip workers of their rights, defend corporations 
accused of mistreating workers, and he has tried to undermine the 
watchdog agency he is now seeking to join. He will be working at the 
National Labor Relations Board, which is supposed to strike a balance 
and advocate only for American workers. The President's nominee is 
someone who received a very high salary building his career defending 
corporations accused of mistreating workers, working to strip workers 
of their rights, and trying to undermine the NLRB's effort to get a 
fair shake and build a level playing field for workers.
  Someone who views unions and collective bargaining as a threat to be 
dealt with was primarily the story of Mr. Robb's career, instead of 
helping to protect the central rights for workers. A person like that 
has no business serving as the top lawyer for the National Labor 
Relations Board.
  His nomination is just the latest in a long line of evidence that 
work simply isn't valued in this country the way it used to be. People 
in Ohio and around the country work harder. They work more days, more 
hours, longer hours, harder than ever before, and they have less to 
show for it.
  Over the past 40 years, GDP has gone up, corporate profits have gone 
up, and executive compensation has gone up--all because of the 
productivity of the American worker, but, fundamentally, the workers 
haven't shared in the wealth they have created. Again, GDP goes up, 
profits go up, executive salaries go up, productivity goes up, but 
workers' wages are stagnant or worse. We know that.
  We also know people in this body rarely side with workers in that 
equation. One major reason the economic growth has not brought higher 
wages to workers is Americans are less likely to have a union card to 
protect them. When Americans reminisce about the good jobs that 
disappeared, I am willing to bet most of those jobs were union.
  As manufacturing employment declined, the share of workforce 
represented by unions declined with it--only more rapidly. I can accept 
that the workforce is changing, but what we can't accept is more and 
more of our workers are paid less in wages, have fewer benefits, and 
have little economic security.
  It is no coincidence that over the same timeframe, economic growth in 
this country has been shared among fewer and fewer Americans. Keep in 
mind, as the 1 percent gets richer, they take more and more of the 
profits, they take more of the productivity gains, and workers are left 
further behind.
  We know what will happen with this so-called tax reform that is being 
considered in the House. They are then going to negotiate it right down 
the hall here in the majority leader's office the same way they did 
healthcare. They will be right down the hall in the majority leader's 
office with lots of lobbyists but no light shone, no public, and no 
media coverage.
  We know what happens. We know what happens with tax reform like that. 
The rich get richer and the middle class shrinks. That is the story of 
those Teamsters in Youngstown today. As I walked with the crowd of 
Teamsters, I spoke with a number of them on the way in and the way out. 
I asked how long they had driven a truck. Most had driven 30, some 40, 
and a few 45 years. They worked that hard. They gave up wages today so 
they would have a pension in the future. Yet, right now, because of 
Wall Street misfeasance and malfeasance, in large part, and because 
government, the people in this body don't have the guts to stand up for 
these workers, we know what has happened to their pensions, and we know 
what will happen to their pensions if we don't step in and do the right 
thing come December this year.
  We know what will happen with the tax reform bill, again, written 
down the hall in the majority leader's office--the same thing. The 
wealthiest 1 percent get richer. The rich get richer and the powerful 
get more power and what happens is, the middle class shrinks. We know 
that.
  Last week, I was on the floor with many of my colleagues talking 
about a case before the Supreme Court--Janus v. AFSCME. The case is 
part of a decades-long attempt to chip away at workers' power in the 
workplace. Mr. Robb has been part of that effort. The nominee to be the 
top lawyer at the National Labor Relations Board has been part of the 
effort to chip away at workers' rights, to continue the demeaning and 
diminishing role of workers in this country, to suppress wages in this 
country. He is the person the President of the United States wants to 
serve as the top lawyer on the National Labor Relations Board.
  What is wrong with that picture? He defended corporations accused of 
discrimination of not paying their workers the paychecks they earned. 
Imagine, he represented the corporations that tried to keep these 
workers from getting the paychecks they earned. He worked for an energy 
company that was working to defeat workers' organizing effort. His own 
law firm's website brags about how they delayed the election 2 more 
years.
  You know how it works. My colleagues know this. These workers signed 
a petition. They signed a card, if you will, saying they would like to 
have a union election. A majority of these workers--probably a majority 
of 60, 70 percent--signed a card saying they wanted to have a union 
election. It is a right in this country. It is a right since the 1930s. 
When President Roosevelt pushed through the National Labor Relations 
Act, workers received the right to vote on a union. Mr. Robb's company 
was bragging. They were bragging that they were able to delay the 
election for 2 years. So maybe they couldn't defeat the workers, but do 
you know what you do then? You delay the election because you have 
really good, high-priced lawyers who know how to do this for 
management, for the corporation.

  If you delay the election for a week, for a month, for a quarter, for 
half a year, for a year, for 2 years, you know what happens. Many of 
those workers who signed that petition who thought they might have a 
shot at the union, some of them got fired, some just left, some of them 
were ready to retire, maybe some of them died. So by the time the 
election is held, you have pretty much defeated the organizing effort. 
That is why people like Mr. Robb don't belong at the National Labor 
Relations Board.
  We need someone in this job who wakes up every day ready to defend 
American workers, not oppress them, not shut them down, not depress 
their wages. You don't want somebody who has spent his career trying to 
bring these workers down.
  What Mr. Robb doesn't seem to understand is, it is not corporations 
that drive the economy, it is workers. We grow the economy from the 
middle class out.
  I know you are going to hear a number of my colleagues who support 
this huge tax break in this tax bill. It is all about cutting the 
corporate tax so corporations make more money, have higher profits, 
have higher executive salaries. It will not have anything to do with 
wages. It never does. No matter how profitable the companies are, they 
are not willingly giving higher wages to its workers. You are going to 
hear from these companies. You are going to hear the defenders of these 
companies come to this body, and they are going to talk about how 
corporations are driving the economy; that if you give tax breaks to 
the richest people in the country, it will trickle down and create jobs 
and increase wages. Well, it hasn't worked that way in the past.
  In the 1990s, Bill Clinton grew the economy. He focused the tax 
breaks in the tax bills on the middle-class workers and grew the 
economy out from the middle. Twenty-two million net private sector jobs 
increased during the Clinton years.
  The next 8 years, under President Bush 2, the tax cuts all went to 
the rich, two major tax cuts--not entirely to the rich but 
overwhelmingly to the rich. For trickle down, zero net increase of 
private sector jobs. There were 22 million during the Clinton years 
because he focused on the middle class. There was zero job growth 
during the Bush years because it was trickle-down economics.
  What is going on in the back room in the majority leader's, Senator 
McConnell's, back office? It is another tax cut for the rich, trickle 
down, see what happens. The rich get richer, and the middle class 
shrinks.

[[Page S7011]]

  What Mr. Robb doesn't understand is, it is not corporations that 
drive the economy, it is workers. When the workers are doing better, 
they are buying more things, they are creating more demand, companies 
sell more products, the economy grows. If work isn't valued, if 
corporations shortchange workers with the help of lawyers like Mr. 
Robb, then Americans can't earn their way to a better life for their 
families no matter how hard they work.
  We all know, workers are working harder than ever before. They are 
working longer hours than ever before. They are more productive. 
Profits are up. Executive compensation is up. Wages have been flat. 
What is fair about that? What should we do about that? What we should 
do about that is not to put people on the National Labor Relations 
Board who want to do more of the same.
  Whenever we face another attack on American workers and their freedom 
to organize, I think of the words of Pope Francis. He said: ``There is 
no good society without a good union, and there is no good union that 
is not reborn every day in the peripheries--that does not transform the 
disregarded stones of the economy into cornerstones.'' We need laws 
that reflect the dignity of every discarded stone, of every American 
working too many hours for too little pay. The last thing we need is 
another nominee who doesn't value work, another nominee who doesn't 
respect the Americans who do it, another nominee who always lines up on 
the side of the richest people in the country and always is working to 
take rights away from workers, to take wages away from workers, and to 
take benefits away from workers. That is the story of Mr. Robb's work 
history in the private sector.
  Is that the kind of person you want representing workers and 
representing the American economy at the National Labor Relations 
Board? I think not.
  I urge my colleagues to listen a little bit more. Go to the 
Teamsters' hall in Youngstown like I did today. Listen a little more to 
the Americans we serve. Listen a little less at the country club, to 
the big corporations trying to squeeze every last penny out of these 
workers' hands, to squeeze every last penny out of these workers. 
Reject Mr. Robb's nomination.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



