

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8260-S8261]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 793, a bill to prohibit 
sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the extension 
of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased 
payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 946

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 946, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice 
Outreach Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
involved veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments 
for certain rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center 
services furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1697

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1697, a bill to 
condition assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the 
Palestinian Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli 
citizens and United States Citizens.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1706, a bill to prevent 
human health threats posed by the consumption of equines raised in the 
United States.


                                S. 1719

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1719, a bill to eliminate 
duties on imports of recreational performance outerwear, to establish 
the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1873

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1873, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out

[[Page S8261]]

a program to establish peer specialists in patient aligned care teams 
at medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2051

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2051, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to modernize the physician self-
referral prohibitions to promote care coordination in the merit-based 
incentive payment system and to facilitate physician practice 
participation in alternative payment models under the Medicare program, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2065

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2065, a bill to establish 
a demonstration program to provide integrated care for Medicare 
beneficiaries with end-stage renal disease, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2088

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2088, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to provide for the issuance of the Gold Star 
Installation Access Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, 
and other next of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while 
serving on certain active or reserve duty, to ensure that a remarried 
surviving spouse with dependent children of the deceased member remains 
eligible for installation benefits to which the surviving spouse was 
previously eligible, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2105

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2105, a bill to modify the 
presumption of service connection for veterans who were exposed to 
herbicide agents while serving in the Armed Forces in Thailand during 
the Vietnam era, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the 
Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current 
law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2159, a bill to 
require covered harassment and covered discrimination awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered harassment and covered discrimination complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2203

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. 
Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of S. 2203, a bill to amend title 9 
of the United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2236, a bill to require covered 
discrimination and covered harassment awareness and prevention training 
for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, and detailees of 
Congress within 30 days of employment and annually thereafter, to 
require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend the enforcement 
process under the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights for covered 
discrimination and covered harassment complaints, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2250

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2250, a bill to 
ensure due process protections of individuals in the United States 
against unlawful detention based solely on a protected characteristic.


                                S. 2259

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2259, a bill to 
establish certain duties for pharmacies to ensure provision of Food and 
Drug Administration-approved contraception, medication related to 
contraception, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 139, a resolution 
condemning the Government of Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its 
Baha'i minority and its continued violation of the International 
Covenants on Human Rights.


                              S. RES. 363

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 363, a resolution 
expressing profound concern about the growing political, humanitarian, 
and economic crisis in Venezuela and the widespread human rights abuses 
perpetrated by the Government of Venezuela.

                          ____________________



