

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8267-H8268]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1315
                     BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. 
Hill) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today during Breast Cancer Awareness 
Month to call attention to this topic that is so important throughout 
our Nation.
  With one in eight U.S. women, or 12 percent, developing breast cancer 
over the course of their lives, too many of us know someone who has 
been diagnosed with this tragic disease.
  I lost my mother as a result of breast cancer, and my friend and 
former district director, Jill Cox, was diagnosed with breast cancer in 
2015. She attributes her strides in recovery to early detection and 
self-examinations.
  Many women with breast cancer have no symptoms, underscoring the 
importance of how regular breast cancer screenings and self-
examinations can save lives. No test is too early.
  We all must continue to work together and move forward addressing 
breast cancer, and I urge my colleagues to continue their focus on this 
critical issue.


                Cody Hiland Appointment as U.S. Attorney

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize my good friend Cody 
Hiland's appointment as the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of 
Arkansas.
  A native of Conway, Arkansas, Cody graduated from the University of 
Central Arkansas and the William H. Bowen School of Law in Little Rock. 
He served as the prosecuting attorney for the 20th Judicial District of 
Arkansas since 2010.
  Before beginning his career in law enforcement, Cody was a partner at 
his own firm, a staff attorney and rural communication liaison for the 
Arkansas Public Service Commission, and the program director for the 
Arkansas Transitional Employment Board.
  His experience and activism truly embody all that communities need in 
the fight against crime.
  I am proud of this leader and consummate professional. He is devoted 
to law and order. He will be a great voice in reducing crime throughout 
central Arkansas.
  I congratulate my friend, Cody Hiland.


     Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families 40th Anniversary

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Arkansas Advocates for 
Children and Families on the occasion of their 40th anniversary.
  AACF was established in 1977 by 10 Arkansans, including our former 
First Lady, Betty Bumpers, who were passionate about the status of 
children in our State.
  Over the past four decades, AACF has helped families throughout 
Arkansas to ensure that they have the resources and opportunities to 
lead healthy and productive lives.
  Working to promote good public policy that makes kids' lives better, 
AACF played an integral role in the creation of ARKids First and the 
expansion of quality pre-K for at-risk 3- and 4-year-olds.
  I would like to extend my congratulations to AACF and wish it much 
continued success for generations to come.


                 Springfield-Des Arc Bridge Dedication

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the joint efforts of 
the city of Conway, Faulkner County, the Faulkner County Historical 
Society, and Workin' Bridges, a nonprofit organization, that are 
collaborating to restore a historic bridge in Faulkner County, 
Arkansas.
  The Springfield-Des Arc Bridge, an iron bowstring arc bridge, is the 
oldest bridge in Arkansas and one of the oldest of its type in the 
country. The bridge was placed on the National Register of Historic 
Places in 1988.
  This bridge was originally constructed back in 1874 to facilitate 
travel between Faulkner and Conway Counties in the Second Congressional 
District.
  Over the years, the bridge faced continued operational wear and tear, 
three major floods, and lost its flooring to a fire. The bridge was 
decommissioned when the road was rerouted to a new and better concrete 
bridge.
  Faulkner County Historical Society and the city of Conway worked 
together to establish a restoration plan for the bridge and proposed to 
relocate it to Beaverfork Lake Park. The 146-foot structure was 
dismantled and transported to North Little Rock for cleaning and 
refinishing. The bridge now sits at Beaverfork Lake Park as a link 
between the swimming area and the fishing pier.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank all those who have worked so diligently over the 
years to preserve this historic bridge and give it a new use for a new 
generation.


             50th Anniversary of Theodore Roosevelt Island

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow is certainly a historic day, as it is 
the

[[Page H8268]]

159th anniversary of our 26th President's birthday--Theodore 
Roosevelt--October 27, 1858.
  The National Park Service is also celebrating the birthday 
anniversary weekend with the 50th anniversary of the dedication of the 
Theodore Roosevelt Memorial on Theodore Roosevelt Island in the Potomac 
River across from Georgetown. That family-friendly program will be on 
October 29 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
  The event will include addresses at 2 p.m. by President Roosevelt's 
great-grandson, Tweed Roosevelt, and other academics, who will talk 
about the amazing legacy of our 26th President, Theodore Roosevelt.
  I thank, also, the National Park Service for their outstanding work 
on Theodore Roosevelt Island, restoring the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial 
that is out on the island. It is one of the best places to visit when 
families come to Washington, D.C., on its very peaceful and tranquil 
island location in the Potomac River.
  The National Park Service, on this restoration work, collaborated 
with the Friends of Theodore Roosevelt Island and the Theodore 
Roosevelt Association. I congratulate them for their work; I 
congratulate them on the 50th anniversary of the Theodore Roosevelt 
Memorial on Theodore Roosevelt Island; and, of course, my hat is off to 
Teddy on the anniversary of his birth.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



