

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7844]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING LONGFELLOW ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

 Ms. HEITKAMP. Mr. President, I want to congratulate the 
students, faculty, and parents of Longfellow Elementary School, located 
in Fargo, ND, on being awarded the 2017 National Blue Ribbon School 
Award.
  Founded in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program recognizes 
public and private elementary, middle, and high schools where students 
perform at very high levels or where significant improvements are being 
made in students' academic achievement. A National Blue Ribbon Schools 
flag overhead has become a mark of excellence in education recognized 
by everyone from parents to policymakers in thousands of communities. 
Since the program's founding, the U.S. Department of Education has 
bestowed this coveted award to more than 8,500 of America's best 
schools.
  Longfellow Elementary School serves nearly 370 students and was one 
of three schools in North Dakota to be designated as an Exemplary High 
Performing School under this award. Receiving recognition as a National 
Blue Ribbon School signifies the hard work and dedication of the 
educators, students, and parents involved, and I have no doubt students 
at Longfellow are on a path to success. At Longfellow Elementary, every 
educator serves multiple roles in their students' day-to-day 
activities. To best support its students, families are heavily involved 
in the school and its functions. Unlike many schools in the Nation, 
Longfellow Elementary enjoys strong engagement and support from their 
students' parents, making them a shining example of how our public 
schools can thrive through robust community support.
  Longfellow is one of two elementary schools in the Fargo Public 
School District that provides an educational setting for students with 
a wide range of impairments that require extra attention. The multiple 
impairments magnet program provides speech, occupational, and physical 
therapy services to students. Cass County Public Health supports the 
program with regular visits by a nurse, and a music therapist visits 
with the class two times a week. It is through the Longfellow community 
that the school has been able tailor the teaching to their students' 
needs.
  The Longfellow's vision includes, ``Equitable opportunities will 
ensure a quality educational experience to stimulate and support all 
students in their intellectual, social, and personal growth.'' This 
vision statement embodies all that Longfellow Elementary is working to 
accomplish by including parents and family in their discussions. I wish 
the very best to the community of Fargo and congratulations to all 
engaged at Longfellow Elementary for achieving this high honor. Thank 
you for your commitment to our children and leaders of 
tomorrow.

                          ____________________



