

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7159-S7160]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




SENATE RESOLUTION 330--MANDATING ANTI-HARASSMENT TRAINING FOR SENATORS 
  AND OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND INTERNS OF, AND DETAILEES TO THE SENATE

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Grassley, Mrs. Capito, Ms. Cortez 
Masto, Mr. Shelby, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
Cochran, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Udall, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Warner,

[[Page S7160]]

Mr. Blunt, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Cruz, Mr. King, Mr. Wicker, and Mrs. Fischer) 
submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 330

       Resolved,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This resolution may be cited as the ``Senate Anti-
     Harassment Training Resolution of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

       In this resolution--
       (1) the term ``covered office'' means an office, including 
     a joint commission or joint committee, employing Senate 
     employees;
       (2) the term ``covered position'' means a position as--
       (A) a Senate employee that is not a position as a Senate 
     manager;
       (B) an intern or fellow in a covered office--
       (i) without regard to whether the intern or fellow receives 
     compensation; and
       (ii) if the intern or fellow does receive compensation, 
     without regard to the source of compensation; or
       (C) a detailee in a covered office, without regard to 
     whether the service is on a reimbursable basis;
       (3) the term ``head of a covered office'' means--
       (A) the Senator, officer, or Senate manager having final 
     authority to appoint, hire, discharge, and set the terms, 
     conditions, or privileges of the employment of the Senate 
     employees employed by a covered office; or
       (B) in the case of a covered office that is a joint 
     committee or joint commission, the Senator from the majority 
     party of the Senate who--
       (i) is a member of, or has authority over, the committee or 
     commission; and
       (ii)(I) serves in the highest leadership role in the 
     committee or commission; or
       (II) if there is no such leadership role for a Senator on 
     the committee or commission, is the most senior Senator on 
     the committee or commission;
       (4) the term ``officer'' means an elected or appointed 
     officer of the Senate;
       (5) the term ``Senate employee'' means an employee whose 
     pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, without 
     regard to the term of the appointment; and
       (6) the term ``Senate manager'' means a Senate employee 
     empowered to effect a significant change in the employment 
     status of another Senate employee, such as hiring, firing, 
     failing to promote, reassignment with significantly different 
     responsibilities, or a decision causing a change in benefits.

     SEC. 3. ANTI-HARASSMENT TRAINING.

       (a) Senators, Officers, and Senate Managers.--Each head of 
     a covered office and Senate manager shall complete training 
     that addresses the various forms of workplace harassment, 
     including sexual harassment, and related intimidation and 
     reprisal that are prohibited under the Congressional 
     Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) and their 
     role in recognizing and responding to harassment and 
     harassment complaints.
       (b) Other Senate Staff.--Any individual serving in a 
     covered position shall complete training that addresses the 
     various forms of workplace harassment, including sexual 
     harassment, and related intimidation and reprisal that are 
     prohibited under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 
     (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.).
       (c) Ensuring Access.--The head of a covered office shall 
     ensure that each individual serving in a covered position or 
     as a Senate manager in the covered office has access to the 
     training required under this section.

     SEC. 4. TIMING.

       (a) Initial Training.--
       (1) In general.--The training required under section 3 
     shall be completed--
       (A) for an individual elected, appointed, or assigned to a 
     position as a Senator, officer, or Senate manager or to a 
     covered position after the date of adoption of this 
     resolution who was not serving in the same covered office as 
     a Senator, officer, or Senate manager or in a covered 
     position immediately before being so elected, appointed, or 
     assigned, not later than 60 days after the date on which the 
     individual assumes the position; and
       (B) except as provided in paragraph (2), for an individual 
     serving in a position as a Senator, officer, or Senate 
     manager or in a covered position on the date of adoption of 
     this resolution, not later than 60 days after such date of 
     adoption.
       (2) Individuals receiving recent training.--An individual 
     serving as a Senator, officer, or Senate manager or in a 
     covered position on the date of adoption of this resolution 
     who completed training that addresses the various forms of 
     workplace harassment, including sexual harassment, and 
     related intimidation and reprisal that are prohibited under 
     the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301 
     et seq.) during the period beginning on the first day of the 
     115th Congress and ending on such date of adoption shall be 
     deemed to have completed training under paragraph (1)(B).
       (b) Periodic Training.--An individual serving in a position 
     as a Senator, officer, or Senate manager or in a covered 
     position shall complete the training required under section 3 
     at least once during each Congress beginning after the 
     Congress during which the individual completes the initial 
     training in accordance with subsection (a).

     SEC. 5. CERTIFICATION.

       (a) In General.--Not later than the last day of each 
     Congress, each covered office shall submit to the Secretary 
     of the Senate a certification indicating whether each 
     Senator, officer, and Senate manager serving in a position in 
     the covered office and each individual serving in a covered 
     position in the covered office has completed the training 
     requirements under this resolution during that Congress.
       (b) Publication.--Not later than 30 days after the first 
     day of each Congress, the Secretary of the Senate shall 
     publish each certification submitted to the Secretary of the 
     Senate under subsection (a) with respect to the previous 
     Congress on the public website of the Secretary of the 
     Senate.

     SEC. 6. REGULATIONS OR GUIDANCE.

       The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate is 
     authorized to issue such regulations or guidance as it may 
     determine necessary to carry out this resolution.

                          ____________________



