

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8157]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM

  Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise this afternoon to talk about the 
Children's Health Insurance Program and, particularly, the 
reauthorization of that program. By reauthorization I mean taking 
action to continue a program that is not just worthy but battle-tested 
now for almost a quarter of a century nationally, at least 20 years. In 
States like Pennsylvania, it is more than 20 years, more like 25.
  The unfortunate reality, though, is this isn't done. This program 
should have been reauthorized at the end of September, and it is not 
done yet. It has gone from unacceptable to inexcusable. We should not 
leave this week without either having it reauthorized or having a game 
plan that would guarantee it will be reauthorized in the very early 
days of 2018, literally, the early days of January.
  In just the last 2 weeks, I met with families across Pennsylvania and 
even families that came from beyond Pennsylvania here to Washington to 
talk about what the Children's Health Insurance Program means to them.
  CHIP provides health insurance to some 9 million American children 
each year, including over 342,000 children in Pennsylvania, if you look 
at it over the course of the year. As you might recall, when the CHIP 
program expired on September 30, there were a lot of indications or 
promises made that it would be reauthorized rather soon, but that was 
81 days ago. Whether you want to express it in days or months--81 days 
or 2\1/2\ months or more now--that is inexcusable. We have to get this 
done for these families.
  I just saw a report this morning on ``NBC News'' that profiled a 
family. They were talking in this case to the mom and talking to her 
children, and it was a very moving story about the importance of the 
Children's Health Insurance Program and what would happen to that 
family if the program were not reauthorized.
  This is a bipartisan program. It was bipartisan in its inception in 
the mid-1990s, and it has remained bipartisan. Now there is only one 
party that runs the House, the Senate, and the administration, and I 
hope that this one party--in this case, the Republican Party--can get 
the votes. You don't even have to talk about votes. It is really 
talking about floor time and really making sure there is an agreement 
on a pay-for.
  The most recent action by the Finance Committee on CHIP was in the 
Keep Kids' Insurance Dependable and Secure Act, known by the acronym 
KIDS. The KIDS Act came through the Finance Committee by a voice vote. 
That almost never happens, even on reauthorization. There was a voice 
vote on October 4. It seems like a long time ago now. It is ready to 
go. If it came onto the Senate floor, we can pass it here. I have to 
ask: Why isn't that happening?
  Maybe the better person to ask that question would be a family who is 
benefiting and who could be harmed if it is not reauthorized. I am 
thinking about Connie, a woman I met here in Washington just last week. 
Then, I saw her again on Monday in Pittsburgh at Children's Hospital of 
Pittsburgh. That is one of those great institutions for children across 
our country. She was there with two of her children. Carmen and Diego 
are both on the CHIP program. CHIP provides good health insurance so 
that they can get the healthcare they need.
  I had a picture with Connie's daughter Carmen here in Washington. She 
dutifully handed me a copy of the picture when I saw her just a few 
days later in Pittsburgh at Children's Hospital.
  Both Carmen and Diego might lose their health insurance because there 
is a lot of activity here and focus and a result when it comes to a big 
tax bill. In this case, it is a tax bill that gives permanent corporate 
tax cuts to multinational, profitable corporations. At the same time, 
there is almost no action or any sense of momentum right now to get the 
Children's Health Insurance Program in place again, or reauthorized, as 
we call it.
  We had an event here in Washington yesterday where not only were 
there child advocates but so many others coming together to talk about 
this program. Maybe the most important thing we did yesterday, in 
addition to the mechanics, was to talk about the children in the room. 
Here are the children and the States they came from. I will just read 
through them quickly: Jason and Kelsey from Utah; Deanna came from New 
York; Malachi came from Colorado; Addie and Cailin from Kentucky; 
Patience, Serenity, Tyler, and Harmonie, all from the State of Texas; 
Jeridan, Kendra, and Makayla from the State of Wisconsin; and, finally, 
another Michaela--spelled a different way--and Grace came from the 
State of West Virginia. They and their parents--these children and 
their parents--spoke about what CHIP means to their families. Several 
of the parents said CHIP means their children can get the prescription 
eyeglasses they need.

  I have to ask: How is a child supposed to learn and succeed in school 
without eyeglasses? CHIP provides that.
  So while these kids don't know if they are going to be able to get 
the glasses they need to be able to read and to learn, the Senate is 
busy passing a tax bill. It is OK to pass a tax bill, even if I didn't 
agree with it, but we should find the time in the remaining hours of 
this year to get CHIP done.
  I saw a tweet just 2 days ago that said the following: ``Congress 
must renew funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program so the 
parents of the nine million children who are covered by CHIP can know 
their children's healthcare is secure.''
  The good news about that tweet is, it was a Member of Congress. The 
even better news is, it was a Senator. Better news even than that, the 
Senator happened to be the Senate majority leader, Senator McConnell.
  I ask Senator McConnell, please allow floor time and please obtain 
the consensus you need in your own party to get this on to the floor 
and get it passed.
  As I said, the KIDS Act, the Finance Committee bill, is ready to go. 
I ask for the majority leader's help because I know he cares about this 
program as well. We have to get this done.
  Just a final note before I yield the floor. I wanted to note several 
other healthcare priorities that Congress must address.
  Community health centers are facing a funding cliff that will hurt 
millions of people around the country, and over 800,000 in Pennsylvania 
whom they serve, and other priority community health centers. Medicare 
extenders--meaning tax provisions that are extended from one year to 
the next or from one year into the future--including support for rural 
hospitals and lifting the so-called therapy cap to ensure seniors and 
people with disabilities have access to physical and occupational 
therapy services have also expired, just like the CHIP program, or will 
expire at the end of this calendar year. Failing to address these 
extensions is also unacceptable and will harm our children, our 
seniors, and our communities.
  So we have a lot of work to do in a short amount of time on all of 
these healthcare issues. I think we should start with voting on and 
reauthorizing the Children's Health Insurance Program for 9 million 
American children.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



