

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7532-H7533]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SOTO (for himself and Mr. Curbelo of Florida):
       H.R. 3829. A bill to establish a program to provide grants 
     to States, local governments, and electric utilities to make 
     electric infrastructure more resilient to hurricanes, 
     tornadoes, and other major weather-related events; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD:
       H.R. 3830. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude major professional sports leagues from 
     qualifying as tax-exempt organizations; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself and Mr. Gonzalez of Texas):
       H.R. 3831. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to expand eligibility for participation in the Federal Pell 
     Grant program to certain trade schools; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DUNN (for himself, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. 
             Arrington, and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 3832. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the 
     executive director of a national network of State-based 
     prescription monitoring programs under which Department of 
     Veterans Affairs health care providers shall query such 
     network, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself, Mr. Yoder, and Mr. 
             Cicilline):
       H.R. 3833. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the child tax credit; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Suozzi, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Espaillat, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Engel, and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 3834. A bill to provide that members of public safety 
     agencies who died of 9/11-related health conditions are 
     eligible for the Presidential 9/11 Heroes Medal of Valor, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
       H.R. 3835. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to eliminate origination fees for Federal Direct Loans; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
       H.R. 3836. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     and the Truth in Lending Act to clarify the application of 
     prepayment amounts on student loans; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. DEUTCH:
       H.R. 3837. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to require the Federal Election Commission to 
     establish and operate a website through which members of the 
     public may view the contents of certain political 
     advertisements, to require the sponsors of such 
     advertisements to furnish the contents of the advertisements 
     to the Commission, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on House Administration.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Harper, and Mr. 
             Lucas):
       H.R. 3838. A bill to require the appropriate Federal 
     banking agencies to treat certain non-significant investments 
     in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions as 
     qualifying capital instruments, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Lee, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Adams, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. 
             Welch, and Ms. Esty of Connecticut):
       H.R. 3839. A bill to address slow economic growth and spur 
     investment and development in underserved communities across 
     America; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Education and the Workforce, 
     Agriculture, Financial Services, Small Business, Energy and 
     Commerce, the Judiciary, and Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 3840. A bill to expand the use of open textbooks in 
     order to achieve savings for students; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mrs. 
             Love, and Mr. Cardenas):
       H.R. 3841. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to make certain multivitamin-mineral dietary supplements 
     eligible for purchase with supplemental nutrition assistance 
     program benefits, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.

[[Page H7533]]

  

           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Jenkins of West 
             Virginia, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 3842. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize the Healthy Start for Infants Program; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SUOZZI (for himself and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 3843. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
     with respect to bribery; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
       H.R. 3844. A bill to restrict the authority of the Attorney 
     General to enter into contracts for Federal correctional 
     facilities and community confinement facilities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP (for himself, Mr. Correa, Mr. Vargas, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Harris, Mr. LaHood, 
             Mr. Abraham, Mr. Rothfus, and Mr. Suozzi):
       H. Con. Res. 80. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of the Congress that assisted suicide (sometimes referred to 
     as death with dignity, end-of-life options, aid-in-dying, or 
     similar phrases) puts everyone, including those most 
     vulnerable, at risk of deadly harm and undermines the 
     integrity of the health care system; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself and Mr. 
             McGovern):
       H. Res. 537. A resolution promoting United States national 
     security and foreign policy objectives through consolidation 
     and strengthening of the rule of law and respect for human 
     rights in the Republic of Azerbaijan; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Burgess, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Evans, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Meeks, and Mr. Payne):
       H. Res. 539. A resolution calling for sickle-cell trait 
     research, surveillance, and public education and awareness; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself and Mr. King of New York):
       H. Res. 540. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of September 2017 as ``Campus Fire Safety 
     Month''; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



