

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6970]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 2049. A bill to amend the Agricultural Credit Act of 
     1978 to increase support for conservation practices under the 
     emergency conservation program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 2050. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     provide to producers partial payments under the livestock 
     indemnity program for livestock sold for salvage; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 2051. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to modernize the physician self-referral prohibitions to 
     promote care coordination in the merit-based incentive 
     payment system and to facilitate physician practice 
     participation in alternative payment models under the 
     Medicare program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 2052. A bill to provide for temporary funding for health 
     insurance cost-sharing reduction payments and provide 
     targeted tax relief, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 2053. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     increase the maximum amount of assistance authorized under 
     supplemental agricultural disaster assistance programs; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 2054. A bill to amend the Agricultural Credit Act of 
     1978 to establish a program to provide advance payments under 
     the Emergency Conservation Program for the repair or 
     replacement of fencing; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2055. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     better address substance use and substance use disorders 
     among young people; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
       S. 2056. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish a traffic barrier installation grant program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. 
             Harris, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Markey, Mrs. Shaheen, and Mr. 
             Udall):
       S. 2057. A bill to prevent conflicts of interest that stem 
     from the revolving door that raises concerns about the 
     independence of pharmaceutical regulators; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 2058. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     increase the thresholds by which medical facility projects 
     and medical facility leases of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs are considered major medical facility projects and 
     major medical facility leases, respectively, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



