

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8036]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. GOODLATTE:
       H.R. 4070. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     enhance Congress' ability to defend its legislative power 
     under Article I of the Constitution in litigation in the 
     courts of the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER (for herself and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 4071. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to create 
     program to provide funding for organizations that support 
     startup businesses in formation and early growth stages by 
     providing entrepreneurs with resources and services to 
     produce viable businesses, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, and Mr. Panetta):
       H.R. 4072. A bill to designate certain Federal land in the 
     State of California as wilderness, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY:
       H.R. 4073. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     strike the definition of ``imminent danger to the public 
     health or safety'' that was added by Public Law 114-145 for 
     purposes of suspending a registration; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Moore, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Norton, 
             Mrs. Torres, Mr. Evans, Mr. Payne, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Pocan, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Serrano, and Mr. 
             Ellison):
       H.R. 4074. A bill to strengthen and expand proven anti-
     poverty programs and initiatives; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committees on House 
     Administration, Oversight and Government Reform, Education 
     and the Workforce, Financial Services, Agriculture, 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, Rules, the Budget, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire, and Mr. MacArthur):
       H.R. 4075. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     require certain training as a condition of registration to 
     prescribe or dispense opioids for the treatment of pain or 
     pain management, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NORCROSS:
       H.R. 4076. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for cost-of-living adjustments indexed to the 
     Consumer Price Index for the Elderly, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Education and the Workforce, Energy and 
     Commerce, Armed Services, and Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



