

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8149-S8150]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to 
amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and 
Drug Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and 
to protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, 
manufacturing and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare 
coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of 
durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) and the 
Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added as cosponsors of S. 793, 
a bill to prohibit sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 842

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 842, a bill to prohibit 
Federal agencies and Federal contractors from requesting that an 
applicant for employment disclose criminal history record information 
before the applicant has received a conditional offer, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1063

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1063, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to establish direct care registered nurse-to-
patient staffing ratio requirements in hospitals, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1142

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Louisiana

[[Page S8150]]

(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1142, a bill to extend the 
deadline for commencement of construction of certain hydroelectric 
projects.


                                S. 1263

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1263, a bill to amend the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit oil-, gas-, and methane 
hydrate-related seismic activities in the North Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic, 
South Atlantic, and Straits of Florida planning areas of the outer 
Continental Shelf, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1503, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th 
anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1524

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1524, a bill to improve 
the treatment of Federal prisoners who are primary caretaker parents, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1627

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1627, a bill to 
extend the authorization of the Highlands Conservation Act.


                                S. 1845

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1845, a bill to amend the 
Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act to provide for additional 
procedures for families with children under the age of 6, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1901

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1901, a bill to require 
global economic and political pressure to support diplomatic 
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, including through the 
imposition of sanctions with respect to the Government of the 
Democratic People's Republic of Korea and any enablers of the 
activities of that Government, and to reauthorize the North Korean 
Human Rights Act of 2004, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1933

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Murphy) were added as cosponsors of S. 1933, a bill to focus limited 
Federal resources on the most serious offenders.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey) were added as cosponsors of S. 1989, a bill to enhance 
transparency and accountability for online political advertisements by 
requiring those who purchase and publish such ads to disclose 
information about the advertisements to the public, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1990

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1990, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to increase the amounts payable by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for dependency and indemnity 
compensation, to modify the requirements for dependency and indemnity 
compensation for survivors of certain veterans rated totally disabled 
at the time of death, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2046

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2046, a bill to amend titles 
5 and 44, United States Code, to require Federal evaluation activities, 
improve Federal data management, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2070

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2070, a bill to 
amend the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, to 
reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and 
to promote initiatives that will reduce the risk of injury and death 
relating to the wandering characteristics of some children with autism.


                                S. 2088

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2088, a 
bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to provide for the issuance 
of the Gold Star Installation Access Card to the surviving spouse, 
dependent children, and other next of kin of a member of the Armed 
Forces who dies while serving on certain active or reserve duty, to 
ensure that a remarried surviving spouse with dependent children of the 
deceased member remains eligible for installation benefits to which the 
surviving spouse was previously eligible, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown), the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst), the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current law regarding 
the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2167

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2167, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to make certifications with respect to United 
States and foreign financial institutions' aircraft-related 
transactions involving Iran, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2174

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2174, a bill to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the Veterans Crisis Line.


                                S. 2194

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2194, a bill to remove a limitation on a 
prohibition relating to permits for discharges incidental to normal 
operation of vessels.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Indiana (Mr. Donnelly), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) and the 
Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were added as cosponsors of S. 2236, a 
bill to require covered discrimination and covered harassment awareness 
and prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, 
fellows, and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and 
annually thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, 
to amend the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional 
Workplace Rights for covered discrimination and covered harassment 
complaints, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



