

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8075-H8076]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia (for himself and Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts):
       H.R. 4090. A bill to amend the Controlled Substance Act to 
     establish a task force to address fentanyl and heroin 
     trafficking; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DUNN:
       H.R. 4091. A bill to remove from the John H. Chafee Coastal 
     Barrier Resources System the areas included in Indian 
     Peninsula Unit FL-92 and Cape San Blas Unit P-30 in Florida; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Marshall, Mr. 
             Arrington, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Duffy, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Gibbs, 
             Mr. Gallagher, and Mr. Barr):
       H.R. 4092. A bill to create a nonimmigrant H-2C work visa 
     program for agricultural workers, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Education and the Workforce, and Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mrs. Demings, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Evans, Ms. Norton, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Quigley, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 4093. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to strengthen prevention and response measures for hate 
     crimes on college campuses by establishing robust 
     accountability measures, providing needs-based grants, and 
     amending the Clery Act; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for himself, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 4094. A bill to establish a public health plan; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LYNCH:
       H.R. 4095. A bill to repeal Public Law 114-145; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. Raskin, and Ms. 
             Velazquez):
       H.R. 4096. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish a prize competition for the research, development, 
     or commercialization of technology that would reduce the 
     amount of carbon in the atmosphere, including by capturing or 
     sequestering carbon dioxide or reducing the emission of 
     carbon dioxide; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. NEAL:
       H.R. 4097. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for coverage of methadone under 
     Medicare part B; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Quigley, and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 4098. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to prohibit schools and libraries that receive universal 
     service support from blocking Internet access to lesbian, 
     gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer resources, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Massie, Mr. Griffith, 
             Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Webster of Florida, and 
             Mr. Katko):
       H.J. Res. 119. A joint resolution proposing a balanced 
     budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas):
       H. Res. 576. A resolution reaffirming the strategic 
     partnership between the United

[[Page H8076]]

     States of America and the country of Georgia; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H. Res. 578. A resolution honoring the lives, work, and 
     sacrifice of Joseph Curseen, Jr., and Thomas Morris, Jr., the 
     2 United States Postal Service employees who died as a result 
     of their contact with anthrax while working at the United 
     States Postal Facility located at 900 Brentwood Road, NE, 
     Washington, DC, during the anthrax attack in the fall of 
     2001; United States Postal Service employees, who have 
     continued to work diligently in service to the people of the 
     United States notwithstanding anthrax attack; as well as the 
     other 3 Americans who died and the 17 who became ill in the 
     attacks; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



