

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6349]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          PUERTO RICO AND U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS RECOVERY EFFORT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, over 2 weeks ago, Puerto Rico and the U.S. 
Virgin Islands were devastated by Hurricane Maria. This was less than a 
month after the islands felt the impacts of another powerful storm, 
Hurricane Irma. Hurricane Maria has left a wake of destruction across 
the islands. In Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, too many 
Americans remain without power, clean drinking water, or a method of 
communicating with their relatives and first responders.
  Last week, I met with leaders in the Puerto Rican community in 
Chicago to discuss local efforts to provide aid. This week, I met with 
a delegation from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to discuss relief 
efforts and what we can do at the Federal level to help them rebuild. 
The stories they shared about friends and family in Puerto Rico were 
heartbreaking. These people, our fellow American citizens, are facing a 
life and death situation. Sadly, the lives of at least 16 people have 
been claimed.
  The situation in Puerto Rico is dire, and aid cannot wait. The 3.5 
million people who live on the island of Puerto Rico are our fellow 
U.S. citizens, and it is our duty to provide aid to them in their time 
of need.
  Yesterday, Congress received a supplemental aid request from the 
administration to provide much needed disaster relief to our fellow 
Americans. Now, Congress must come together to help these Americans 
rebuild homes and businesses, restore critical infrastructure, and 
access life-sustaining supplies.
  Providing emergency disaster assistance to people in need is not a 
local issue. It is an American issue.
  Just as I expect my colleagues to come to the aid of the State of 
Illinois when we are faced with a natural disaster and just as Congress 
came to the aid of Hurricane Harvey victims a few short weeks ago, the 
people of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands expect us to rally behind 
them as they work to respond to Hurricane Maria.
  I urge my colleagues to quickly pass a clean aid package that will 
help all Americans whose lives have been impacted by these natural 
disasters. Any supplemental appropriations bill that includes aid for 
States impacted by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma must also include aid for 
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and western States that have been 
devastated by wildfires.
  I was heartened to hear that the Illinois National Guard has deployed 
teams to provide telecommunication assistance, food, water, tents, and 
cots to Puerto Rico. I was also glad to see that individual assistance 
is now available for all 78 of the municipalities on the island, 
ensuring all individuals in Puerto Rico can receive assistance from the 
Federal Government.
  The Federal response to this disaster has taken far too long, and we 
must do more to help our fellow American citizens during this 
humanitarian crisis.
  In Congress, our top priority should be making sure the people of 
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands have the funding they need to 
rebuild and recover. We cannot delay providing this much needed funding 
any longer.
  It has been tragic to see thousands of shipping containers held at 
ports, which have been full of critical, life-sustaining supplies that 
are not reaching those most in need. There continue to be reports of 
families in Puerto Rico who are stranded and isolated. We must 
prioritize quickly distributing supplies to reach every individual in 
the days, weeks, and months to come. The U.S. citizens who live in 
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands are at risk of running out of food, 
water, and fuel. It would be unconscionable for us to abandon them in 
their time of need.
  Our thoughts are with the many people who have lost their loved ones, 
their homes, and other property. I want to recognize the hard work of 
the volunteers, local officials, and Federal employees that have come 
forward in this time of need and pitched in at every level.
  We can and should do more to help the people of Puerto Rico and the 
U.S. Virgin Islands rebuild and recover. I have no doubt that the 
people of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands will be able to clean 
up and rebuild, and they will be stronger for it. The entire Nation 
must come together as an American family to give them the aid and 
support they need at every step along the way.

                          ____________________



