

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H10249]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 HONORING THE LIFE OF JOHN B. ANDERSON

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Kinzinger) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy 
of the Honorable John B. Anderson and pay tribute to a man who inspired 
many to serve.
  On December 3, 2017, John Anderson passed away at the age of 95. In 
mourning his death, I send my condolences to his wife, Keke, and the 
entire Anderson family.
  A native of Rockford, Illinois, John Anderson attended Rockford 
Central High School and graduated from the University of Illinois in 
1939. Before representing Illinois' 16th District in the House of 
Representatives, the district that I now proudly represent, John 
Anderson answered the call to serve as a staff sergeant in the United 
States Army.
  He left law school in 1943 to enlist, and bravely served his country 
through the end of World War II. A decorated war veteran, John Anderson 
was honored with four battle stars for valor in combat.
  Upon returning home to Rockford, John finished his law degree at the 
University of Illinois, and then went to Harvard to earn his master of 
laws degree. A few years later, he joined the Foreign Service and 
worked in Germany for the United States High Commissioner.
  After returning home to Rockford, he was elected as Winnebago County 
State's Attorney in 1956. Shortly after, he joined the primary race for 
Congress and went on to win the House seat in 1960.
  For 10 terms, John Anderson represented the 16th Congressional 
District of Illinois. He was on the powerful Rules Committee and held 
firm to his fiscally conservative values. He believed in a smaller and 
more accountable government, and he wasn't afraid to speak up for it.
  His servant leadership and love of country earned him the 
chairmanship of the House Republican Conference, ranking third in House 
leadership. This esteemed position eventually led to his run for 
President.
  John Anderson believed that his job was worth giving up in order to 
set a better example of realism in politics. As a community and as a 
country, we are better for his candor, his focus, and his honesty.
  To this day, John's pragmatic approach and self-awareness continue to 
inspire many and greatly impact my service here in Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, John Anderson dedicated his life to serving our Rockford 
community and this great Nation, and he served us proudly. After his 
political career, he continued to serve by becoming a visiting 
professor at several universities across the country.
  On behalf of the 16th Congressional District of Illinois, we salute 
the service of our fallen leader, friend, neighbor, and dedicated civil 
servant. It is my hope that his legacy will continue to inspire 
generations to come and that his impact will never be forgotten.

                          ____________________



