

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6917-S6918]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          REMEMBERING TED COOK

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I remember the life of a great 
Kentuckian, Ted Cook, who passed away on October 1, 2017, at the age of 
70. He was a great friend, a local businessman, and a fixture of Laurel 
County. Passing away after a battle with cancer, Ted's loss will be 
felt by many.
  A veteran of the U.S. Air Force, Ted was driven by a sense of 
patriotism and community service. He was a generous man and a strong 
supporter of the Kentucky High School Athletics Association. Ted made 
it a priority to watch every basketball game he could, and he was an 
ideal role model for the next generation of Kentuckians.
  Ted loved the outdoors, spending time hunting, fishing, and raising 
quail. He tried to instill that passion in young people, especially his 
children and, later, his grandchildren. Ted also helped lead local, 
State, and national organizations dedicated to the service of others.
  Ted rarely sought any recognition for his good works, instead always 
caring primarily for others. Those he impacted with his love and 
friendship, however, will always remember him. Elaine and I send our 
condolences to Ted's wife, Debbie, their children, their family, and 
friends. I hope that their fond memories of Ted will help ease their 
grief.
  Mr. President, the Corbin Times-Tribune recently published an article 
on Ted's life and career. I ask unanimous consent that a copy of the 
article be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

             [From the Corbin Times-Tribune, Oct. 2, 2017]

                    Ted Cook Will Be Missed by Many

                             (By Les Dixon)

       Myself and many others across the State lost a great friend 
     on Sunday with the passing of Ted Cook. Mr. Cook--he would 
     always correct me to call him Ted--was one of the greatest 
     men I have ever known. He would do anything for anyone, and I 
     do mean anyone. He was one of the biggest supporters of kids 
     throughout the State that I have known.
       We would always engage in high school sports talk any time 
     we saw each other. It didn't matter if we were at a 
     restaurant or if I paid him a visit at Cook Tire, high school 
     sports was always the topic of discussion--well, sometimes 
     politics would be as well, but only to give one of our 
     friends a hard time.
       Even though I am a writer, I find it hard to write about 
     people I truly care about. It sounds odd doesn't it? But I 
     just don't think anything I can write would do justice about 
     my good friend Mr. Cook.
       I know he was a joy to be around and he always made me feel 
     like I was one of his own. Heck, he was able to do that with 
     anyone he interacted with.
       I always looked forward to seeing Mr. Cook at the Sweet 
     Sixteen Boys Basketball Tournament. You could bank on it 
     every Wednesday morning, I would go over to say hello

[[Page S6918]]

     and he would always stick out his hand for a handshake and 
     say, ``Hello, young man. How have you been?'' He always 
     preceded with a big hug and then we preceded to talk about, 
     life, sports, my daughter and then anything else that would 
     come up. You could bank on the same routine happening every 
     year.
       The one thing that will stick out to me more than anything 
     is how Mr. Cook always dressed in his `Sunday's best' for the 
     Sweet Sixteen Boys championship game. He was always in a suit 
     and a tie and that always stood out to me. He showed respect 
     to the event just like he showed respect to everyone he met.
       I never really ventured over to Cook Tire as much as I 
     should to see how he would be doing, but our paths always 
     crossed, usually at least once a month and even more during 
     high school basketball season.
       I believe KHSAA Commissioner Julian Tackett said it best on 
     his Facebook page: Ted Cook's passing means the loss of 
     another of that great generation of men who were independent, 
     self sustaining and hard working. In addition to being one of 
     the biggest supporters of kids throughout the state, he was a 
     counselor for so many people and a great friend.
       I will end with this. I hope someday to be half the man Mr. 
     Cook was, it would be an honor.

                          ____________________



