

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 174 (Friday, October 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 174 (Friday, October 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8274]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. Lance):
       H.R. 4161. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for payments to residents of States for which 
     the Federal tax burden exceeds the Federal outlays received; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself and Mr. Garrett):
       H.R. 4162. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to adjust the period of eligibility for Federal Pell Grants, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
       H.R. 4163. A bill to establish a voluntary program to 
     identify and promote Internet-connected products that meet 
     industry-leading cybersecurity and data security standards, 
     guidelines, best practices, methodologies, procedures, and 
     processes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Peterson, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Garrett, and Ms. DeGette):
       H.R. 4164. A bill to provide that the owner of a water 
     right may use the water for the cultivation of industrial 
     hemp, if otherwise authorized by State law; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
       H.R. 4165. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a safe harbor for determinations of worker 
     classification, to require increased reporting, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
       H.R. 4166. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow all employees of a firm to be counted as a 
     single shareholder toward the shareholder limit of an S 
     corporation; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI:
       H.R. 4167. A bill to provide for the conduct of 
     demonstration projects to provide coordinated case management 
     services for TANF recipients; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida (for herself, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
             Mr. Rush, Ms. Lee, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Clay, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Veasey, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Payne, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Mr. Evans, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Clyburn, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Ms. Moore, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Richmond, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Beatty, and Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts):
       H. Con. Res. 88. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of the Congress that temporary protected status for Haitian 
     nationals should be extended until that country has 
     demonstrably recovered from the 2010 earthquake, the cholera 
     epidemic, Hurricane Matthew, and other disasters; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.

                          ____________________



