

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7109-S7110]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, and Mrs. 
             Shaheen):
       S. 2094. A bill to require the prompt reporting for 
     national instant criminal background check system purposes of 
     members of the Armed Forces convicted of domestic violence 
     offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Murphy, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Carper, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Cardin, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Schatz, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Booker, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Duckworth, 
             Ms. Harris, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Sanders):
       S. 2095. A bill to regulate assault weapons, to ensure that 
     the right to keep and bear arms is not unlimited, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 2096. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act to 
     prohibit payments of premium subsidy for harvest price 
     policies; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Heller, and Ms. 
             Baldwin):
       S. 2097. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the administration of State homes furnishing care to 
     veterans under the laws administered by the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Burr, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Rubio, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Scott, Mr. 
             Barrasso, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. Lankford):
       S. 2098. A bill to modernize and strengthen the Committee 
     on Foreign Investment in the United States to more 
     effectively guard against the risk to the national security 
     of the United States posed by certain types of foreign 
     investment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself and Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 2099. A bill to provide for the management by the 
     Secretary of Agriculture of certain Federal land, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
     and Forestry.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Reed, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Warren, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             and Mr. Franken):
       S. 2100. A bill to prohibit the sale or distribution of 
     tobacco products to individuals under the age of 21; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Young):
       S. 2101. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
     collectively, to the crew of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, in 
     recognition of their perseverance, bravery, and service to 
     the United States; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. KING (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 2102. A bill to clarify the boundary of Acadia National 
     Park, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2103. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide information regarding vaccines for seniors as 
     part of the Medicare & You handbook and to ensure that the 
     treatment of cost sharing for vaccines under Medicare part D 
     is consistent with the treatment of vaccines under Medicare 
     part B, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 2104. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exclude from gross income earthquake loss mitigation 
     received under State-based earthquake loss mitigation 
     programs; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 2105. A bill to modify the presumption of service 
     connection for veterans who were exposed to herbicide agents 
     while serving in

[[Page S7110]]

     the Armed Forces in Thailand during the Vietnam era, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mr. Markey, and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 2106. A bill to require States to automatically register 
     eligible voters at the time they turn 18 to vote in Federal 
     elections, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules 
     and Administration.

                          ____________________



