

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8603]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          MOMENTUM IS BUILDING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Al Green) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise because I love my country. 
Mr. Speaker, because I love my country, I rise to thank those who voted 
to reject bigotry, racism, xenophobia, ethnocentrism, sexism, and 
hatred in all of its forms, Mr. Speaker. I rise to thank them for what 
they did when they voted to reject these things.
  Mr. Speaker, because I love my country and because I cannot accept 
these things, I refuse to accept hatred. I refuse to acquiesce to any 
forms of bigotry. Mr. Speaker, because I rise to reject these things, I 
now announce that before Christmas there will be a vote on the chief 
inciter of racism, bigotry, hatred, xenophobia, sexism, ethnocentrism; 
there will be a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives, Mr. Speaker, 
on the impeachment of the President.
  Mr. Speaker, this vote will take place before Christmas because there 
still is a need for the public to weigh in. I announced earlier this 
year, I called for the impeachment of the President right here on the 
floor of the House. Since that time, I have read Articles of 
Impeachment. These Articles of Impeachment have been circulated, and we 
are giving people an opportunity to respond.
  Momentum is building, Mr. Speaker. The momentum is building. More 
people favor impeachment than not. Momentum is building. People should 
weigh in. They should let others know how they feel about impeachment. 
They should let others know how they feel about the chief inciter of 
all of these ugly actions by way of persons responding to the chief 
inciter.
  Mr. Speaker, today, I am proud to say this vote will take place, but 
I am also proud to say something else. I am proud to say that I am an 
American, and while I have been told that there are political 
consequences for what I will do, I accept the consequences. I accept 
the consequences because I was not born in Congress. I wasn't born to 
be a Congressman. I am a child of God.
  Mr. Speaker, I refuse to come to Congress and acquiesce to bigotry 
and hatred. I am proud to announce that this vote will take place and 
people will be able to vote to table the Articles of Impeachment. They 
will be able to vote to reject them, or support them, or they will be 
able to vote to send them to a committee.
  Whatever others will do is their choice. My conscience dictates that 
I will vote to impeach. Let others do what they may. History will judge 
us all. I pray, Mr. Speaker, that this country will continue to reject 
what the inciter in chief, Donald J. Trump, has been causing this 
country to have to endure.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



