

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7091]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           HONORING ED GILROY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and say farewell to 
a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce staff 
who has dedicated more than 20 years of public service to the people's 
House.
  Ed Gilroy began his congressional career on the staff of former 
Congressman Rod Chandler of Washington, but most of us know him for his 
nearly 16 years of service as the committee's Director of Workforce 
Policy.
  Ed led our efforts to expand access to affordable healthcare for 
small-business employees, provide moms and dads more flexibility in the 
workplace, and protect the rights of workers and employers. When we 
think about the passage of the bipartisan Pension Protection Act in 
2006 and the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014, we have to think 
of Ed.
  Ed Gilroy has been a trusted adviser, dedicated public servant, 
distinguished colleague, and an invaluable member of our committee 
family. We are deeply grateful for his many years of service to the 
American people and the U.S. House of Representatives, and we wish him 
all the best in the years ahead.


              25th Anniversary of the First Charter School

  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, 25 years ago, something monumental occurred 
for students and families who were seeking a new way to pursue a high-
quality education. Twenty-five years ago, our Nation's first charter 
school, the City Academy, opened its doors in St. Paul, Minnesota. City 
Academy began a new era for school choice and provided families with an 
alternative option to the traditional public school system. Today, over 
3 million students are enrolled in charter schools, and more than 6,800 
have opened in over 40 States.
  Charter schools are not only growing as an option for students, but 
these schools are also getting results. Innovative charter schools are 
providing thousands of students and families with the hope and 
opportunity that they can receive a high-quality education and gain the 
skills they need to succeed for the future.
  I congratulate City Academy for being a true pioneer in school choice 
25 years ago and support the expansion of school choice for American 
students and families.


                  Honoring Alexander Furniture Academy

  Mr. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the efforts of the CVCC 
Alexander Furniture Academy, located in Taylorsville, North Carolina. 
This fantastic facility hosts a program where students are taught the 
basic skill levels required to gain employment as a sewing operator or 
upholstery craftsman within the furniture trade.
  Under the leadership of Center Director Eunice Mays and thanks to the 
generous scholarships awarded by many groups like Craftmaster 
Incorporated, AHFA, and others, nearly 50 students have graduated, and 
almost all are now employed.
  I wholeheartedly commend Eunice and the Alexander Furniture Academy 
as well as all of its sponsors for putting together a program that 
doesn't just teach valuable skills to would-be job seekers, but a 
program that literally helps individuals build the skills they need to 
succeed from the bottom up.
  In the last 6 months, students have crafted 90 sofas and chairs and 
20 loveseats which have been sold. The profits from the students' 
creations are invested in scholarships and help to keep the academy 
open.
  I commend the Catawba Valley Community College Alexander Furniture 
Academy teachers, staff, and students on this terrific program.

                          ____________________



