

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 143 (Wednesday, September 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 143 (Wednesday, September 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4983-S4984]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               TAX REFORM

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, it is no surprise that Americans 
consistently rate jobs and the economy as top issues of concern.
  A recent survey found that 50 percent of voters consider themselves 
to be living paycheck to paycheck, and about one-third of voters say 
they are just about $400 away from a financial crisis. That means a 
single, unexpected car repair or healthcare bill could easily put them 
in the middle of a financial emergency.
  Too many Americans have seen their American dream dim in recent 
years. Hopes for a secure future have turned into worries about where 
the next rent or mortgage payment is coming from or whether it will be 
possible to save anything at all for retirement.
  We don't have to resign ourselves to the status quo. We don't have to 
accept the long-term economic stagnation of the Obama administration as 
our economic future. We can get our economy going again, and we can set 
it up for strong growth for the long term. But that is going to require 
some work. It is going to require repealing burdensome and unnecessary 
government regulations that have slowed economic growth, and it is 
going to require reforming our complex, outdated Tax Code, which is 
increasingly strangling our economy.
  The Tax Code might not be the first thing people think of when they 
think of economic growth, but it actually plays a huge role in every 
aspect of our economy. It helps determine how much money Americans have 
left over from their paychecks to save or invest or whether they can 
afford a car or a house. When it comes to businesses, it can be the key 
to determining whether a young business gets off the ground or an 
existing business has the money to grow and hire new employees.
  Unfortunately, our current Tax Code is not helping our economy. It is 
doing the opposite. It limits Americans' opportunities. It punishes 
their success. It discourages investment and growth. It cripples small 
businesses. It encourages large businesses to send jobs overseas. It 
keeps our economy from reaching its full potential.
  Reforming our Tax Code is an indispensable part of getting our 
economy back on the path to long-term health. Without comprehensive tax 
reform, the economic stagnation of the Obama years is likely to become 
the status quo going forward.
  This fall, Republicans in the House and Senate are going to make 
comprehensive tax reform a priority, and any legislation we pass will 
be governed by five principles: First, any bill has to result in 
increased wages, jobs, and economic growth. Second, it must provide tax 
relief for the middle class. Third, it has to keep jobs here at home. 
Fourth, it has to increase American competitiveness in the global 
economy. Finally, it has to simplify the Tax Code.
  Republicans will be talking a lot about these principles over the 
coming weeks, but today I would like to take just a few minutes to talk 
about the first of these principles: making sure that tax reform 
legislation increases wages, jobs, and economic growth.
  Flattening wage growth has been a problem in the United States for 
decades. During the 8 years of the Obama administration, wage growth 
was almost nonexistent.
  Economic growth was also weak throughout the Obama administration. 
During the last year of the Obama administration--years, I might add, 
after the recession ended--economic growth was averaging a dismal 1.5 
percent. That is barely half of the growth needed for a healthy economy 
or for what we have seen historically in this country, going back to 
the end of World War II.
  While things have been looking up a little bit lately, we still have 
a long way to go to get back on the right track. Things need to get 
better, and they need to get better faster. We want things to get 
better for the long term. During the Obama administration, there were 
periods of reasonable economic growth, but they were quickly followed 
by weak periods.

  That is not good enough. We need to put our economy on a strong, 
healthy footing for the long term. What does the Tax Code have to do 
with all of this? How is it discouraging wage growth, job growth, and 
economic growth?
  I want to talk about three big ways it is discouraging growth. To 
start with, tax rates on businesses, large and small, are too high. Our 
Nation has the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world--
at least 10 percentage points higher than the majority of our 
international competitors. Small businesses face tax rates that can 
range even higher--up to 44.6 percent for small businesses.
  It doesn't take an economist to realize that high tax rates leave 
businesses with less money to invest, less money to spend on wages, 
less money to create new jobs, and less money to put back into new 
property or equipment for their businesses.
  This situation is compounded when you are an American business with 
international competitors that are paying a lot less in taxes than you 
are. It is no surprise that U.S. businesses struggling to stay 
competitive in the global economy don't have a lot of resources to 
devote to creating new jobs and increasing wages.
  On top of our high business tax rates, there is another major problem 
with our Tax Code that puts American businesses at a competitive 
disadvantage globally--our outdated worldwide tax system.
  What does it mean to have a worldwide tax system? It means that 
American companies pay U.S. taxes on the profit they make here at home, 
as well as on any profit they make abroad once they bring that money 
home to the United States.
  The problem with this is twofold. First, these companies are already 
paying taxes to foreign governments on the money they make abroad. 
Then, when they bring that money home, they end up having to pay taxes 
again on at least part of those profits and at the highest tax rate in 
the industrialized world. This discourages them from bringing their 
profits back to the United States to invest in their domestic 
operations. Instead, our Tax Code gives them a strong incentive to 
leave that money abroad and to invest in foreign workers and foreign 
economies.
  The other problem is that most other major world economies have 
shifted from a worldwide tax system to what is known as a territorial 
tax system. In a territorial tax system, you pay taxes on the money 
that you earn where you make it and only there. You aren't taxed again 
when you bring money back to your home country.
  Most of American companies' foreign competitors have been operating 
under a territorial tax system for years. So they are paying a lot less 
in taxes on the money they make abroad than American companies are. 
That leaves American companies at a disadvantage. These foreign 
companies can underbid American companies for new business simply 
because they don't have to add as much in taxes into the price of their 
products or services.
  In addition to discouraging growth with high tax rates and with our 
outdated worldwide tax system, there is

[[Page S4984]]

another major way our Tax Code discourages growth, and that is by 
leaving small businesses with very little cash on hand.
  I have mentioned the high tax rates that small businesses face, which 
already restrict their cash flow. The accounting rules in the Tax Code 
just compound that problem. Under current law, small and medium-sized 
corporations are often required to pay tax on income before they 
receive the cash, and they cannot deduct all of their expenses when 
they pay the invoices. It can take years or even decades for them to 
recover the cost of their investments in equipment and facilities.
  For instance, right now the cost of a computer is recovered over 5 
years and tractors, over 7 years, if you are in the ag sector of the 
economy, and commercial buildings, over 39 years.
  The consequences of deducting investments over so many years is that 
businesses can be left extremely cash-poor in the meantime, and cash-
poor businesses don't expand. They don't hire new workers, and they 
don't increase wages.
  Any bill Republicans consider has to fix these elements in our Tax 
Code that are discouraging growth. It has to lower rates for 
businesses, both large and small. It has to shift our outdated 
worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system so that American 
businesses are not at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy 
and so that American businesses have an incentive to invest their 
profits at home in American jobs and American workers, instead of 
abroad. Any bill we consider has to address the cost-recovery rules 
that are keeping small businesses cash-poor, often for years at a time.
  I have already introduced legislation to help startups and small to 
medium-sized businesses recover the cost of their investments faster. 
It is legislation that I hope will become part of the final bill that 
we consider in the Senate. I am looking forward to working with 
Chairman Hatch and my colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee as we 
work to draft the final bill.
  The American people have had a rough few years, but economic worry 
doesn't have to become the status quo for the long term. American 
workers and job creators are as dynamic and creative as ever. We just 
need to clear the obstacles from their path, and comprehensive tax 
reform will allow us to do just that. I look forward to helping to 
bring the American people real relief this year.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



