

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5738-S5739]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REMEMBERING PETE DOMENICI

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would like to take a few minutes amidst 
the Senate's business to memorialize my good friend, fellow colleague, 
and long-serving Senator of New Mexico, Pete Domenici. It is altogether 
fitting that we may offer tribute right in the middle of a busy day. 
Pete was a true legislator, the kind we just don't see all that often 
any longer. He was at his best when we were here getting things done--
and often we were getting things done because of his efforts. He will 
be sorely missed by those of us who had the distinct privilege of 
serving alongside him.
  Pete's life was a testament to the American Dream; born to immigrant 
parents, Pete grew up working in his father's store before going on to 
earn his degree in education. Later, he would teach math at a local 
junior high school, before making his way into city politics and, from 
there, join the Senate in 1972. Some will no doubt recall that he was 
the first Republican elected as Senator of New Mexico in nearly 40 
years, but most will remember that he always put the people of his 
State and his Nation ahead of partisan interests.
  While serving in the Senate, Pete fulfilled his charge with 
diligence, passion, and decorum. His time here still serves as an 
example to many of us. Pete was regularly willing to reach across the 
aisle, always willing to take the first step, and never one to shrink 
from an opportunity presented, whether difficult or not. Pete's efforts 
to bring the Federal budget under control were especially admirable, 
and his leadership was crucial in achieving the balanced budget of 
1997. That has proven a rare accomplishment. His work as an advocate 
for the mentally ill showed

[[Page S5739]]

his deep levels of compassion, and his efforts helped create a more 
just and equitable society for all.
  Even after he retired, Pete, as was his way, refused to rest. He 
continued to promote bipartisan solutions in Washington and continued 
to remind each of us of our duties to the American people. My prayers 
and condolences go out to his wife, Nancy, and all of his family. 
Amidst their grief, I take heart they may know that his legacy outlives 
his days and that this body will be forever better for his service.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this week, we mourn the loss of Pete 
Domenici, a former Senate colleague, a respected and leading voice in 
bipartisanship, and, most of all, a friend.
  Pete had the distinction of being the longest serving Senator in New 
Mexico's history. He spent almost half a century as a public servant.
  Most knew Pete for his outspokenness on energy and budget issues, but 
I remember him best for his commitment and dedication on behalf of 
Americans struggling with mental illness.
  In 2008, two Senators--Paul Wellstone, a liberal Democrat from 
Minnesota, and Pete Domenici, a conservative Republican from New 
Mexico--came together to pass legislation that prohibited health 
insurance companies from treating mental health differently from 
physical health benefits.
  The Wellstone-Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act 
finally set mental health and substance abuse benefits on equal footing 
with other health benefits, ensuring fairness in deductibles, 
copayments, provider networks, and lifetime limits.
  Those two Senators couldn't have been more different, but they each 
had family members who were touched by mental illness.
  Pete Domenici and Paul Wellstone asked, Why should we treat illnesses 
of the brain any different than a cancer, diabetes, or heart disease?
  That shared bond brought them together. It is why they spent years 
fighting with insurance companies about the importance of mental health 
coverage and ultimately got a law passed.
  The Wellstone-Domenici Parity Act laid the groundwork for so much of 
what we fought for in the Affordable Care Act: the idea that people 
should have access to coverage, regardless of what their medical needs 
are.
  You see, the ACA built off this law by requiring that all individual 
market insurance plans cover mental health and substance abuse services 
as an ``essential health benefit.''
  Thanks to Pete's hard work, millions of Americans no longer have to 
fight for mental health benefits or addiction treatment benefits, so 
important in the face of today's opioid crisis.
  Pete taught us that mental illness is exactly that--an illness--and 
that those who suffer from any illness deserve equal rights and access 
to care.
  Senator Domenici was also a strong advocate for immigration reform.
  Back in 2002, he signed on as a cosponsor of the original DREAM Act, 
legislation that I introduced to give a path to citizenship to talented 
young immigrants who grew up in the country.
  As the son of an Italian immigrant mother and an Italian-born father 
who earned citizenship after his service in WWI, Pete understood 
firsthand the immigrant experience.
  He once said, ``I understand this whole idea of a household with a 
father who is American and a mother who is not, but they are living, 
working, and getting ahead. I understand that they are just like every 
other family in America. There is nothing different. They have the same 
love, same hope, same will and same aspirations as those of us who were 
born here have.''
  Pete didn't just talk; he put his money where his mouth was.
  In 2006, he voted for the McCain-Kennedy comprehensive immigration 
reform bill that included the DREAM Act.
  It passed the Republican-controlled Senate on a strong bipartisan 
vote, but unfortunately, the Republican leadership in the House of 
Representatives never brought it to a vote.
  Senator Domenici's work in the Senate is a great example of the good 
that can come from bipartisanship--of what can happen when we start 
working together to get something done for the American public.
  It is my hope that we can carry on Pete's legacy of equal rights for 
all through bipartisan means.
  My condolences to the Domenici family and thank you for sharing such 
an earnest man with us.
  Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I wish to honor former Senator Pete V. 
Domenici of New Mexico, who passed away September 13 in Albuquerque. It 
was a privilege to call Pete a friend and to work with him as a Senate 
colleague and member of the Appropriations Committee.
  Senator Domenici had a great ability to bring people together to work 
on solutions to complicated challenges like the budget deficit, 
national security, and energy policy. His passing closes the book on a 
life well-lived as a public servant dedicated to his family, his State, 
and our Nation.
  My condolences go out to his lovely wife, Nancy, and their family.
  (At the request of Mr. Schumer, the following statement was ordered 
to be printed in the Record.)

                          ____________________



