

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8297-H8298]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     CONGRATULATING MICHELLE BAUER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, last week, I congratulated 
St. Marys Area High School student Michelle Bauer on winning first 
place in the 34th annual Pennsylvania Municipal League high school 
essay contest.
  Participants were asked to reflect on the theme ``Civics and You'' by 
writing about opportunities in their community that allow for civic 
engagement and encourage citizens to volunteer to help with local 
challenges.
  Today, I would like to share a portion of Michelle's essay:
  ``When I hear the word `civic,' I think of governmental duties. I 
understand my duty as an American citizen to vote, obey laws, pay 
taxes, and serve on juries. These activities all involve one person: 
yourself. In reality, our civic engagement as Americans expands beyond 
a single individual and encompasses entire communities. The definition 
of a civic engagement is an activity that includes both paid and unpaid 
forms of political activism, environmentalism, and service. As I look 
at my community, it is apparent that we have a lot of civic 
engagements.
  ``As with most towns, mine has a city council that holds meetings and 
elections for positions on the council. These elections are open to 
every member of the city and are an excellent way for citizens to have 
a say in the politics of the town. Just as the elections are open to 
all citizens so are the weekly meetings. A unique feature about my 
town's council meetings is that they are televised on a local channel. 
For individuals who are unable to physically be present at the meeting 
or have commitments that require attention, this televised version 
provides a perfect solution to keep abreast of the issues affecting our 
citizens.
  ``Along with a local city council, it is also a civic duty of 
individuals in my community to vote and participate in elections and 
meetings at the school district level. Anyone is able to run for a 
position on the school board as well as attend the meetings. For me, 
our school board is a great way of civic involvement because the board 
is interested in new opportunities that can be incorporated into the 
education of our youth. Just recently, I attended a board meeting where 
the topic of robots was discussed. As a member of a small competition 
group, we were able to present our success and the benefit of 
curriculum that includes new technology. One month later, it was 
announced that a robotics class will be offered in the upcoming school 
year. This will allow even more students to enhance their education and 
perhaps encourage new career choices.
  ``In my community, the civic engagements do not stop on the political 
level. One of the most prominent forms of civic engagement I see in my 
community that is not related to politics is the placing of wreaths on 
the gravestones of fallen soldiers for Memorial Day. Citizens from all 
over town come together the weekend before Memorial Day and walk 
through the entire cemetery adorning and honoring the heroes of our 
country. This event is not for publicity or money but instead is for 
respecting our veterans. Additionally, it is for the betterment of our 
community by presenting a beautiful scene to those passing by.''
  Michelle goes on to write:
  ``Onlookers can also be mesmerized by the beauty of the mountainous 
rural area. Unfortunately, garbage and litter on the side of roads and 
highways is so commonplace that most individuals do not even do a 
double-take when they see it. The highway through my town is an area 
where individuals think it is acceptable to throw garbage out of their 
vehicles or litter the sides of the road with cigarette butts and 
wrappers. For the past 7 years, I have been a part of the National 
Honor Society highway cleanup. Every spring and fall, the society walks 
the sides of the roads picking up trash and making our town look 
beautiful.''
  Mr. Speaker, this is just a portion of Michelle's essay, and I 
include in the Record the full essay.

[[Page H8298]]

  


  34th Annual Pennsylvania Municipal League High School Essay Contest 
                                 Winner


1st Place High School Essay Winner: Michelle Bauer--St. Marys Area High 
                                 School

       When I hear the word civic, I think of governmental duties. 
     I understand my duty as an American citizen to vote, obey 
     laws, pay taxes, and serve on juries. These activities all 
     involve one person: yourself. In reality, our civic 
     engagement as Americans expands beyond a single individual 
     and encompasses entire communities. The definition of a civic 
     engagement is an activity that includes both paid and unpaid 
     forms of political activism, environmentalism, and service. 
     As I look at my community, it is apparent that we have a lot 
     of civic engagements.
       As with most towns, mine has a city council that holds 
     meetings and elections for positions on the council. These 
     elections are open to every member of the city and are an 
     excellent way for citizens to have a say in the politics of 
     the town. Just as the elections are open to all citizens so 
     are the weekly meetings. A unique feature about my town's 
     council meetings is that they are televised on a local 
     channel. For individuals who are unable to physically be 
     present at the meeting or have commitments that require 
     attention, this televised version provides a perfect solution 
     to keep abreast of the issues affecting our citizens.
       Along with a local city council, it is also a civic duty of 
     individuals in my community to vote and participate in 
     elections and meetings at the school district level. Anyone 
     is able to run for a position on the school board as well as 
     attend the meetings. For me, our school board is a great way 
     for civic involvement because the board is interested in new 
     opportunities that can be incorporated into the education of 
     our youth. Just recently, I attended a board meeting where 
     the topic of robots was discussed. As a member of a small 
     competition group, we were able to present our success and 
     the benefit of curriculum that includes new technology. One 
     month later, it was announced that a robotics class will be 
     offered in the upcoming school year. This will allow even 
     more students to enhance their education and perhaps 
     encourage new career choices.
       In my community, the civic engagements do not stop on the 
     political level. One of the most prominent forms of civic 
     engagement I see in my community that is not related to 
     politics is the placing of wreaths on the gravestones of 
     fallen soldiers for Memorial Day. Citizens from all over town 
     come together the weekend before Memorial Day and walk 
     through the entire cemetery adorning and honoring the heroes 
     of our country. This event is not for publicity or money but 
     instead is for respecting our veterans. Additionally, it is 
     for the betterment of our community by presenting a beautiful 
     scene to those passing by.
       Onlookers can also be mesmerized by the beauty of the 
     mountainous rural area. Unfortunately, garbage and litter on 
     the side of roads and highways is so commonplace that most 
     individuals do not even do a double-take when they see it. 
     The highway through my town is an area where individuals 
     think it is acceptable to throw garbage out of their vehicles 
     or litter the sides of the road with cigarette butts and 
     wrappers. For the past seven years, I have been a part of the 
     National Honor Society highway cleanup. Every spring and 
     fall, the society walks the sides of the roads picking up 
     trash and making our town look beautiful.
       Volunteering to pick up the litter is not the only way to 
     carry out civic responsibility. Everybody has either 
     witnessed or directly experienced an accident or fire that 
     required the assistance of a fire department. The fire 
     department is a critical part of a city keeping fires at bay 
     and lending a hand wherever needed. In my community, these 
     people work tirelessly day in and day out for the good of the 
     community. Much of their assistance is not what would be 
     depicted as heroic but rather, responding to flooding issues, 
     weather related emergencies, traffic control, helicopter 
     landing zones, and searching for missing hunters in addition 
     to the rescue and fire calls. They are all volunteers that 
     give up their precious time as a civic duty to their 
     community without expecting recognition. We, the rest of the 
     community, have a duty to help support these people. One of 
     the best ways to do this is to attend their pancake 
     breakfasts that are used as a fundraiser. I am not a huge fan 
     of pancakes and sausage so instead of helping the 
     firefighters out by purchasing a meal, I volunteer to serve 
     the meals to customers. It is the civic duty of individuals 
     in my city to attend this pancake breakfast and show support 
     to the members of this department who tirelessly serve and 
     assist us.
       Reporting for standby at a yearly event in July is another 
     aspect of service that our firefighters join their community 
     for. There are loud BOOMS echoing across the city and 
     suddenly bright orbs of colorful lights bursting in the sky. 
     This grand spectacle entrances onlookers for half an hour 
     with its bright lights and fun designs. A Fourth of July 
     fireworks display like this costs money. Every year, our city 
     struggles to come up with the funds needed to purchase 
     fireworks. Businesses around the town make it their civic 
     duty to help by setting out donation cans in their 
     businesses. The local Dairy Queen even has a day where 30% of 
     the profits from every blizzard purchased go to the city 
     fireworks fund. As citizens in the community, it is our duty 
     to go to Dairy Queen on this day and purchase a blizzard as 
     well as make donations in the cans set up at local 
     businesses. Eating ice cream is certainly an enjoyable way to 
     carry out a civic duty. The July show has been an important 
     part of our community for many years thanks to the numerous 
     supporters.
       We have many such events traced back in our records. Local 
     history is like the heart of the human body. It shapes us, 
     powers our being, and makes us unique. Without history, 
     individuals would not even be alive. A great example would be 
     the Forty-Second Pennsylvania Volunteer Regiment (Bucktails) 
     who were part of the Civil War. These rugged woodsmen were 
     skilled marksmen and ideally suited to the challenges of 
     battle. Stories say that this group was so influential in 
     fighting the war at Gettysburg that the entire outcome could 
     have been different without them. The grit and determination 
     of our local ancestors remains in current day lineage within 
     our community. By knowing local history, members of the 
     community have a sense of pride and can even feel at ease 
     understanding that future generations will uphold the same 
     virtues. My town has a Historical Society that is free to 
     enter and accepts donations of local artifacts and history. 
     As a member of the community, it is my civic engagement to 
     donate any pieces of history I have so that others may 
     benefit from it as well. It is also the duty of our community 
     to visit the Historical Society and learn about our heritage 
     and how we can use the skills of our people to better our 
     society just like the Bucktails did in the Civil War.
       Civic engagements are abundant in our community. From the 
     local fireman's pancake breakfast to the city council 
     meetings, civic activities are occurring all around us. It is 
     the obligation of the citizens to engage in these activities 
     to assist with local challenges and create a better community 
     for all of its members.

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I will close with her 
final paragraph:
  ``Civic engagements are abundant in our community. From the local 
fireman's pancake breakfast to the city council meetings, civic 
activities are occurring all around us. It is the obligation of the 
citizens to engage in these activities to assist with local challenges 
and create a better community for all of its members.''
  Mr. Speaker, I couldn't agree more.

                          ____________________



