

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10394-H10403]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BLUE CAMPAIGN AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2017


                             General Leave

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material on H.R. 1370.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 670, I 
call up the bill (H.R. 1370) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue Department of 
Homeland Security-wide guidance and develop training programs as part 
of the Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign, and for other 
purposes, with the Senate amendment thereto, and ask for its immediate 
consideration.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will designate the Senate 
amendment.
  Senate amendment:

       Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland 
     Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. ENHANCED DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY COORDINATION 
                   THROUGH THE BLUE CAMPAIGN.

       (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title IV of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 231 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:

     ``SEC. 434. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BLUE CAMPAIGN.

       ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `human 
     trafficking' means an act or practice described in paragraph 
     (9) or (10) of section 103 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).
       ``(b) Establishment.--There is established within the 
     Department a program, which shall be known as the `Blue 
     Campaign'. The Blue Campaign shall be headed by a Director, 
     who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
       ``(c) Purpose.--The purpose of the Blue Campaign shall be 
     to unify and coordinate Department efforts to address human 
     trafficking.
       ``(d) Responsibilities.--The Secretary, working through the 
     Director, shall, in accordance with subsection (e)--
       ``(1) issue Department-wide guidance to appropriate 
     Department personnel;
       ``(2) develop training programs for such personnel;
       ``(3) coordinate departmental efforts, including training 
     for such personnel; and
       ``(4) provide guidance and training on trauma-informed 
     practices to ensure that human trafficking victims are 
     afforded prompt access to victim support service providers, 
     in addition to the government assistance required under 
     section 107 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7105), to address their immediate and long-term 
     needs.
       ``(e) Guidance and Training.--The Blue Campaign shall 
     provide guidance and training to appropriate Department 
     personnel and other Federal, State, tribal, and law 
     enforcement personnel, as appropriate regarding--
       ``(1) programs to help identify instances of human 
     trafficking;
       ``(2) the types of information that should be collected and 
     recorded in information technology systems utilized by the 
     Department to help identify individuals suspected or 
     convicted of human trafficking;
       ``(3) systematic and routine information sharing within the 
     Department and among Federal, State, tribal, and local law 
     enforcement agencies regarding--
       ``(A) individuals suspected or convicted of human 
     trafficking; and
       ``(B) patterns and practices of human trafficking;
       ``(4) techniques to identify suspected victims of 
     trafficking along the United States border and at airport 
     security checkpoints;
       ``(5) methods to be used by the Transportation Security 
     Administration and personnel from other appropriate 
     agencies--
       ``(A) to train employees of the Transportation Security 
     Administration to identify suspected victims of trafficking; 
     and
       ``(B) to serve as a liaison and resource regarding human 
     trafficking prevention to appropriate State, local, and 
     private sector aviation workers and the traveling public;
       ``(6) utilizing resources, such as indicator cards, fact 
     sheets, pamphlets, posters, brochures, and radio and 
     television campaigns--
       ``(A) to educate partners and stakeholders; and
       ``(B) to increase public awareness of human trafficking;
       ``(7) leveraging partnerships with State and local 
     governmental, nongovernmental, and private sector 
     organizations to raise public awareness of human trafficking; 
     and
       ``(8) any other activities the Secretary determines 
     necessary to carry out the Blue Campaign.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) is amended 
     by inserting after the item relating to section 433 the 
     following:

``Sec. 434. Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign.''.

     SEC. 3. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure, in 
     accordance with the Department of Homeland Security-wide 
     guidance required under section 434(d) of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002, as added by section 2, the integration 
     of information technology systems utilized within the 
     Department to record

[[Page H10395]]

     and track information regarding individuals suspected or 
     convicted of human trafficking.

     SEC. 4. REPORT.

       Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a 
     report to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security 
     of the House of Representatives that--
       (1) describes the status and effectiveness of the 
     Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign; and
       (2) provides a recommendation regarding the appropriate 
     office within the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     Blue Campaign.

     SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       There is authorized to be appropriated $819,000 to carry 
     out section 434 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as 
     added by section 2.


                            Motion to Concur

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will designate the motion.
  The text of the motion is as follows:

       Mr. Frelinghuysen moves that the House concur in the Senate 
     amendment to H.R. 1370 with an amendment consisting of the 
     text of Rules Committee Print 115-52.

  The text of the House amendment to the Senate amendment to the text 
is as follows:

       In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by the Senate 
     amendment, insert the following

   DIVISION A--FURTHER ADDITIONAL CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

       Sec. 1001.  The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018 
     (division D of Public Law 115-56) is further amended--
       (1) by striking the date specified in section 106(3) and 
     inserting ``January 19, 2018''; and
       (2) by adding after section 142 the following:
       ``Sec. 143.  Notwithstanding section 104, amounts made 
     available by section 111 for `Department of Homeland 
     Security--Coast Guard--Retired Pay' may be obligated to carry 
     out Retired Pay Reform, as authorized by part 1 of subtitle D 
     of title VI of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92, as amended), and the 
     matter under such heading in division F of the Consolidated 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31; 131 Stat. 409) 
     shall be applied during the period covered by this Act by 
     inserting `payment of continuation pay under section 356 of 
     title 37, United States Code,' after `payment for career 
     status bonuses,'.
       ``Sec. 144.  In addition to amounts provided by section 
     101, amounts are provided for `Department of Health and Human 
     Services--Indian Health Service--Indian Health Services' at a 
     rate for operations of $11,761,000 and amounts are provided 
     for `Department of Health and Human Services--Indian Health 
     Service--Indian Health Facilities' at a rate for operations 
     of $1,104,000, for an additional amount for costs of staffing 
     and operating newly constructed facilities; and such amounts 
     may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to 
     staff and operate newly constructed facilities.
       ``Sec. 145.  Amounts made available by section 101 for 
     `Department of Health and Human Services--Administration for 
     Children and Families--Refugee and Entrant Assistance' may be 
     apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to 
     maintain program operations for carrying out section 235 of 
     the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1232) and section 462 
     of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279) at the 
     level provided in fiscal year 2017.
       ``Sec. 146.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are 
     provided for the purposes described in the third paragraph 
     under the heading `Department of Health and Human Services--
     Office of the Secretary--Public Health and Social Services 
     Emergency Fund' at a rate for operations of $112,000,000; and 
     such amounts may be apportioned up to the rate for operations 
     necessary to prepare for or respond to an influenza pandemic.
       ``Sec. 147.  Notwithstanding section 251(a)(1) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and 
     the timetable in section 254(a) of such Act, the final 
     sequestration report for fiscal year 2018 pursuant to section 
     254(f)(1) of such Act and any order for fiscal year 2018 
     pursuant to section 254(f)(5) of such Act shall be issued, 
     for the Congressional Budget Office, 10 days after the date 
     specified in section 106(3), and for the Office of Management 
     and Budget, 15 days after the date specified in section 
     106(3).''.
       Sec. 1002. (a) Notwithstanding the dates specified in 
     section 403(b) of the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 
     110-261; 122 Stat. 2474), the amendments made by such section 
     shall not take effect until the date specified in section 
     106(3) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018 (division D 
     of Public Law 115-56), as amended.
       (b) If during the period beginning on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act and ending on the date specified in 
     section 106(3) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018 
     (division D of Public Law 115-56), as amended, any Act 
     amending the dates specified in section 403(b) of the FISA 
     Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-261; 122 Stat. 2474) 
     is enacted, this section shall be repealed.
        This division may be cited as the ``Further Additional 
     Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018''.

                      DIVISION B--MISSILE DEFENSE

       The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
     the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year 
     ending September 30, 2018, and for other purposes, namely:

            TITLE I--MISSILE DEFEAT AND DEFENSE ENHANCEMENTS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Navy'' for necessary costs to repair damage to the U.S.S. 
     John S. McCain and the U.S.S. Fitzgerald, $673,500,000: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
     an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Air Force'' for necessary costs to detect, defeat, and defend 
     against the use of ballistic missiles, $18,750,000: Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
     emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of 
     the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
     Defense-Wide'' for necessary costs to detect, defeat, and 
     defend against the use of ballistic missiles, $23,735,000: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
     an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985.

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Missile Procurement, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'' 
     for necessary costs to detect, defeat, and defend against the 
     use of ballistic missiles, $884,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020: Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air 
     Force'' for necessary costs to detect, defeat, and defend 
     against the use of ballistic missiles, $12,000,000 to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air 
     Force'' for necessary costs to detect, defeat, and defend 
     against the use of ballistic missiles, $288,055,000 to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' 
     for necessary costs to detect, defeat, and defend against the 
     use of ballistic missiles, $1,239,140,000 to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020: Provided, That such amount is 
     designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Army'' for necessary costs to detect, defeat, 
     and defend against the use of ballistic missiles, $20,700,000 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Navy'' for necessary costs to detect, defeat, 
     and defend against the use of ballistic missiles, $60,000,000 
     to remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Air Force'' for necessary costs to detect, 
     defeat, and defend against the use of ballistic missiles, 
     $255,744,000 to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
     an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

       For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test 
     and Evaluation, Defense-

[[Page H10396]]

     Wide'' for necessary costs to detect, defeat, and defend 
     against the use of ballistic missiles, $1,010,220,000 to 
     remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              TITLE II--MISSILE CONSTRUCTION ENHANCEMENTS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                  MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, DEFENSE-WIDE

       For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
     Defense-Wide'', $200,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2022, to carry out construction of a missile 
     field in Alaska: Provided, That such funds may be obligated 
     or expended for planning and design and military construction 
     projects not otherwise authorized by law: Provided further, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
     emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of 
     the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

       Sec. 2001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds made available in this division are in addition to 
     amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018.
       Sec. 2002. (a) Funds made available in title I of this 
     division shall be allocated to programs, projects, and 
     activities in accordance with the detailed congressional 
     budget justifications submitted by the Department of Defense 
     to accompany the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Amendments requested 
     by the President on November 6, 2017: Provided, That changes 
     to the allocation of such funds shall be subject to the 
     reprogramming requirements set forth in the annual 
     appropriations Act.
       (b) Funds made available in this division may be obligated 
     and expended notwithstanding sections 102 and 104 of division 
     D of Public Law 115-56.
       Sec. 2003.  Each amount designated in this division by the 
     Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985 shall be available only if the President 
     subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits 
     such designations to the Congress.
       This division may be cited as the ``Department of Defense 
     Missile Defeat and Defense Enhancements Appropriations Act, 
     2018''.

                     DIVISION C--HEALTH PROVISIONS

                    TITLE I--PUBLIC HEALTH EXTENDERS

     SEC. 3101. EXTENSION FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS, THE 
                   NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS, AND TEACHING 
                   HEALTH CENTERS THAT OPERATE GME PROGRAMS.

       (a) Community Health Centers Funding.--Section 10503(b)(1) 
     of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 
     254b-2(b)(1)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end; 
     and
       (2) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following:
       ``(F) $550,000,000 for the period of the first and second 
     quarters of fiscal year 2018; and''.
       (b) National Health Service Corps.--Section 10503(b)(2) of 
     the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 
     254b-2(b)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following:
       ``(F) $65,000,000 for period of the first and second 
     quarters of fiscal year 2018.''.
       (c) Teaching Health Centers That Operate Graduate Medical 
     Education Programs.--Subsection (g) of section 340H of the 
     Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256h) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``To carry out'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(1) In general.--To carry out'';
       (2) by striking ``and $15,000,000 for the first quarter of 
     fiscal year 2018'' and inserting ``and $30,000,000 for the 
     period of the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2018, 
     to remain available until expended''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2) Administrative expenses.--Of the amount made 
     available to carry out this section for any fiscal year, the 
     Secretary may not use more than 5 percent of such amount for 
     the expenses of administering this section.''.
       (d) Application.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
     section are subject to the requirements contained in Public 
     Law 115-31 for funds for programs authorized under sections 
     330 through 340 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
     254b-256).
       (e) Conforming Amendments.--Section 3014(h) of title 18, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``section 10503(b)(1)(E) 
     of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 
     254b-2(b)(1)(E)), as amended by section 221 of the Medicare 
     Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015'' and inserting 
     ``subparagraphs (E) and (F) of section 10503(b)(1) of the 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b-
     2(b)(1))''; and
       (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``and section 3101(d) of 
     the CHIP and Public Health Funding Extension Act'' after 
     ``section 221(c) of the Medicare Access and CHIP 
     Reauthorization Act of 2015''.

     SEC. 3102. EXTENSION FOR SPECIAL DIABETES PROGRAMS.

       (a) Special Diabetes Program for Type I Diabetes.--Section 
     330B(b)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-
     2(b)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
       ``(D) $37,500,000 for the period of the first and second 
     quarters of fiscal year 2018, to remain available until 
     expended.''.
       (b) Special Diabetes Program for Indians.--Subparagraph (D) 
     of section 330C(c)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
     U.S.C. 254c-3(c)(2)) is amended by inserting ``and 
     $37,500,000 for the second quarter of fiscal year 2018'' 
     before the period at the end.

     SEC. 3103. PREVENTION AND PUBLIC HEALTH FUND.

       Section 4002(b) of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
     Care Act (42 U.S.C. 300u-11(b)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``each of fiscal years 
     2018 and 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2018'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (8) as 
     paragraphs (5) through (9);
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(4) for fiscal year 2019, $800,000,000;'';
       (4) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``$1,000,000,000'' and inserting ``$800,000,000''; and
       (5) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``$1,500,000,000'' and inserting ``$1,250,000,000''.

          TITLE II--CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM (CHIP)

     SEC. 3201. FUNDING EXTENSION OF THE CHILDREN'S HEALTH 
                   INSURANCE PROGRAM.

       (a) Appropriation; Total Allotment.--Section 2104(a) of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(a)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (19), by striking ``and'';
       (2) in paragraph (20), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(21) for fiscal year 2018, for purposes of making 1 semi-
     annual allotment--
       ``(A) $2,850,000,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 
     2017, and ending on March 31, 2018.''.
       (b) Allotments.--
       (1) In general.--Section 2104(m) of the Social Security Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(m)) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (2)(B)(ii), in the matter preceding 
     subclause (I), by inserting ``and paragraph (10)'' after 
     ``clauses (iii) and (iv)'';
       (B) in paragraph (5)--
       (i) by striking ``or (4)'' and inserting ``(4), or (10)''; 
     and
       (ii) by striking ``or 2017'' and inserting ``, 2017, or 
     2018'';
       (C) in paragraph (9)--
       (i) in the heading, by striking ``fiscal years 2015 and 
     2017'' and inserting ``certain fiscal years'';
       (ii) by striking ``or (4)'' and inserting ``, (4), or 
     (10)''; and
       (iii) by striking ``or fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``, 
     2017, or 2018''; and
       (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(10) For fiscal year 2018.--
       ``(A) First half.--
       ``(i) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (5) and (7), from 
     the amount made available under subparagraph (A) of paragraph 
     (21) of subsection (a) for the semi-annual period described 
     in such subparagraph, the Secretary shall compute a State 
     allotment for each State (including the District of Columbia 
     and each commonwealth and territory) for such semi-annual 
     period in an amount equal to \1/2\ of the amount described in 
     clause (ii) for the State.
       ``(ii) Full year amount based on growth factor updated 
     amount.--The amount described in this clause for a State is 
     equal to the sum of--

       ``(I) the sum of the 2 semi-annual allotments made to the 
     State under paragraph (4) for fiscal year 2017; and
       ``(II) the amount of any payments made to the State under 
     subsection (n) for fiscal year 2017,

     multiplied by the allotment increase factor under paragraph 
     (6) for fiscal year 2018.''.
       (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 2104(m)(2) of such Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(m)(2)) is amended--
       (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``2010 through 
     2016'' and inserting ``beginning with fiscal year 2010''; and
       (B) by striking ``the allotment increase factor under 
     paragraph (5)'' each place it appears and inserting ``the 
     allotment increase factor under paragraph (6)''.
       (3) Application of regular expenditure rules.--Amounts 
     allotted to a State under section 2104(m)(10)(A) of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(m)(10)(A)) (as added by 
     paragraph (1)) shall be subject to the same requirements of 
     title XXI of such Act and applicable regulations of the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services as apply to other 
     allotments made to States for a fiscal year under section 
     2104 of such Act.
       (c) Extension of CHIP Allocation Redistribution Special 
     Rule for Certain Shortfall States.--

[[Page H10397]]

       (1) In general.--Section 2104(f)(2)(B)(ii) of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(f)(2)(B)), as amended by 
     section 201 of Public Law 115-90, is amended--
       (A) in the clause heading, by striking ``first quarter'' 
     and inserting ``first half'';
       (B) by redesignating subclause (III) as subclause (VI); and
       (C) by striking subclauses (I) and (II) and inserting the 
     following:

       ``(I) In general.--For each month beginning during the 
     period beginning on October 1, 2017, and ending March 31, 
     2018, subject to the succeeding subclauses of this clause, 
     the Secretary shall redistribute any amounts available for 
     redistribution under paragraph (1) for fiscal year 2018, to 
     each State that is an emergency shortfall State for the month 
     (as defined in subclause (II)) such amount as the Secretary 
     determines will eliminate the estimated shortfall described 
     in subclause (II) for such State for the month (as may be 
     adjusted under subparagraph (C)) before the Secretary may 
     redistribute such amounts to any shortfall State that is not 
     an emergency shortfall State. In the case of any amounts 
     redistributed under this subclause to a State that is not an 
     emergency shortfall State, such amounts shall be determined 
     in accordance with clause (i).
       ``(II) Emergency shortfall state defined.--For purposes of 
     this clause, the term `emergency shortfall State' means, with 
     respect to a month beginning during the period beginning 
     October 1, 2017, and ending March 31, 2018, a shortfall State 
     for which the Secretary estimates, in accordance with 
     subparagraph (A) (unless otherwise specified in this 
     subclause) and on a monthly basis using the most recent data 
     available to the Secretary as of such month, that the 
     projected expenditures under the State child health plan and 
     under section 2105(g) (calculated as if the reference under 
     section 2105(g)(4)(A) to `2017' were a reference to `2018' 
     and insofar as the allotments are available to the State 
     under this subsection or subsection (e) or (m)) for such 
     month will exceed the sum of the amounts described in clauses 
     (i) through (iii) of subparagraph (A) for such month, 
     including after application of any amount redistributed under 
     paragraph (1) for a previous month for fiscal year 2018 in 
     accordance with this clause, to such State. A shortfall State 
     may be an emergency shortfall State under the previous 
     sentence without regard to whether any amounts were 
     redistributed to such State under paragraph (1) for a 
     previous month in fiscal year 2018.
       ``(III) Funds redistributed in the order in which states 
     realize funding shortfalls.--The Secretary shall redistribute 
     the amounts available for redistribution under paragraph (1) 
     to emergency shortfall States described in subclause (II) in 
     the order in which such States realize monthly funding 
     shortfalls under this title for fiscal year 2018. The 
     Secretary shall only make redistributions under this clause 
     to the extent that such amounts are available for such 
     redistributions.
       ``(IV) Proration rule.--If the amounts available for 
     redistribution under paragraph (1) for a month during the 
     period described in subclause (I) are less than the total 
     amounts of the estimated shortfalls determined for the month 
     for emergency shortfall States described in subclause (II), 
     the amount computed under subclause (I) for each emergency 
     shortfall State shall be reduced proportionally.
       ``(V) Unobligated redistributed funds.--The Secretary shall 
     withhold any funds redistributed under paragraph (1) for 
     fiscal year 2018 before January 1, 2018, but which have not 
     been obligated for amounts expended by a State as of that 
     date, and shall redistribute such funds in accordance with 
     the preceding subclauses of this clause.''.

       (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in the amendments made 
     by paragraph (1) shall be construed as authorizing the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services to de-obligate any 
     funds redistributed under clause (ii) of section 
     2104(f)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
     1397dd(f)(2)(B)) that have been obligated for amounts 
     expended by an emergency shortfall State described in such 
     clause as of January 1, 2018.
       This division may be cited as the ``CHIP and Public Health 
     Funding Extension Act''.

                       DIVISION D--OTHER MATTERS

     SEC. 4001. VA CHOICE.

       There is appropriated, out of any funds in the Treasury not 
     otherwise appropriated, $2,100,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, to be deposited in the Veterans Choice Fund 
     under section 802 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 U.S.C. 
     1701 note).

                     DIVISION E--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

     SEC. 5001. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

       (a) In General.--The budgetary effects of division C and 
     each succeeding division shall not be entered on either PAYGO 
     scorecard maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of the 
     Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
       (b) Senate PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of 
     division C and each succeeding division shall not be entered 
     on any PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of section 
     4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress).
       (c) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding 
     Rule 3 of the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the 
     joint explanatory statement of the committee of conference 
     accompanying Conference Report 105-217 and section 250(c)(8) 
     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985, the budgetary effects of division C and each succeeding 
     division shall not be estimated--
       (1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act; and
       (2) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of the 
     Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being included in an 
     appropriation Act.

     SEC. 5002. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF RECONCILIATION ACT.

       (a) Definition of Reconciliation Act.--In this section, the 
     term ``reconciliation Act'' means an Act enacted into law 
     before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act that 
     was considered pursuant to the reconciliation instructions in 
     H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent resolution 
     on the budget for fiscal year 2018.
       (b) PAYGO Scorecard.--The budgetary effects of the 
     reconciliation Act shall not be entered on either PAYGO 
     scorecard maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of the 
     Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(d)).

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 670, the motion 
shall be debatable for 1 hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations.
  The gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Frelinghuysen) and the gentlewoman 
from New York (Mrs. Lowey) each will control 30 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to present the House amendment to the 
Senate amendment to H.R. 1370.
  This legislation keeps the government fully open, funds important 
national security priorities, and temporarily extends critical 
government programs like the Children's Health Insurance Program, the 
National Flood Insurance Program, and section 702 of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act.
  Our duty to the American people is to keep them secure and to ensure 
they have access to the government programs and services they depend 
on.
  The House must pass this bill now, today.
  Without acting on this bill, existing government funding will expire 
tomorrow, and the government will shut down. This legislation provides 
a simple, clean extension of current funding levels through January of 
2018.
  This additional time will allow House and Senate leadership to 
complete their negotiations on overall spending levels. Once that is 
determined, my committee will complete negotiations with the Senate on 
all 12 appropriations bills for the rest of fiscal year 2018.
  In the meantime, it is essential that Congress maintain government 
programs and services--for our Nation's stability, the stability of our 
economy, and for the security and well-being of the American people.
  This bill also supports national security by providing an additional 
$4.7 billion in emergency funding to bolster missile defense, to 
protect against growing threats, and to repair damaged Navy ships.
  In addition, the bill also includes $2.1 billion in mandatory funding 
for the VA Choice Program. This funding will guarantee that our 
veterans continue to have access to the medical care they need and 
deserve.
  Along with important funding for our Armed Forces and veterans, this 
bill contains temporary extensions of several critical programs that 
millions of Americans rely on. These include the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, the National Flood Insurance Program, and section 
702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
  Mr. Speaker, before I close, again, I would like to thank the 12 
Appropriations chairs, our 12 clerks, and the very professional staff 
of the Appropriations Committee for working overtime to bring this bill 
and others before the House today.
  We cannot delay on passing this critical legislation, funding the 
government, protecting our Nation, and extending essential programs 
that hardworking Americans rely on every day.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the bill, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this epic failure of governing.
  Nearly 3 months into the fiscal year, the Republican majority is 
advancing

[[Page H10398]]

its third temporary continuing resolution with no foreseeable path 
forward on enacting full-year appropriations and no evident urgency to 
address priorities that are critical to American families and 
communities.
  Completely preoccupied with showering tax breaks on corporations and 
the wealthiest Americans, the majority has failed to clear the 
extremely low bar of charting a course to keep the government open and 
meet deadlines they have set for themselves.
  In short, the Republican majority has made a complete mess of the 
very basics of governing. Now they want Democrats to bail them out by 
carrying a bill that neglects our priorities.
  This continuing resolution should include the bipartisan Dream Act, 
protecting from deportation young people who were brought to this 
country as small children and only know the United States as home. But 
this bill tells those facing deportation that their plight is not our 
concern.
  It should include a bipartisan reauthorization of the Children's 
Health Insurance Program, providing long-term certainty for 9 million 
children and families who depend on the program. Instead, this bill 
tells children and families their medical needs are not our priority.
  It should include an agreement to raise caps for defense and 
nondefense spending with parity so that appropriators can get to work 
on a full-year spending package that keeps America secure and 
prosperous. Instead, the bill tries to make an end run around solely 
the defense cap by slipping in nearly $5 billion in new spending for 
the Pentagon.
  It should not clean up the mess the majority made triggering 
automatic reductions to Medicare because of their deficit-busting tax 
bill.
  The majority wants to pass this bill and go home for the holidays, 
somehow content with its performance on behalf of the Americans they 
represent. In every sense, this bill fails to live up to our 
responsibilities as legislators and as Representatives. Given these 
failures, I urge a ``no'' vote.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1600

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Oregon (Mr. Walden), the chairman of the Energy and Commerce 
Committee.
  Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague, the 
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Mr. Frelinghuysen, for 
his incredible and tenacious work to bring us this legislation.
  By the way, all 12 appropriations bills have already been passed by 
the House individually and sent to the Senate.
  A vote against the CR is a vote to shut down the government. It is 
that simple. Today is the day we keep the government operating. We are 
not going to take the irresponsible path of voting to shut it down.
  I stand here in support of the continuing resolution. This 
legislation before us today not only keeps the doors of the Federal 
Government open and the services to our constituents available, but 
also provides short-term funding for the State Children's Health 
Insurance Program, also known as CHIP.
  This program provides vital health coverage for approximately 9 
million children nationwide. So, when my colleagues on other side vote 
``no,'' know that they are also voting against these 9 million children 
who need access to this health insurance.
  While I am glad we have this short-term funding, I, too, am 
disappointed to stand here today without Congress having completed its 
work to fully fund CHIP for the next 5 years. We did that in the House 
on a bipartisan basis.
  This bill also provides critical short-term funding for community 
health centers. They are essential. In my district, 63 different 
facilities take care of men, women, and children in the community 
health center network. It takes care of teaching health center graduate 
medical education and special diabetes programs as well. So a ``no'' 
vote today is against all of those programs.
  It is worth noting yet again that the House passed a comprehensive 
bill, the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, in November. It was a 
bipartisan vote. It will fund the CHIP program for a full 5 years. 
Community health centers will be funded for 2 years, and the other 
public health programs will be funded for 2 years.
  It would also prevent billions of dollars of cuts to our safety net 
hospitals. Those cuts will be triggered in January because of inaction 
in the Senate.
  Unfortunately, our friends on the other side of the Capitol have yet 
to move our bill or reach full agreement on some different combination 
of offsets to pay for extending these important programs. This is 
disappointing since it means Congress has not yet been able to provide 
certainty to families across Oregon and the country who rely on these 
vital programs.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Hultgren). The time of the gentleman has 
expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentleman an additional 1 
minute.
  Mr. WALDEN. We are well past the time in which we should have had 
this done. The Energy and Commerce Committee has acted. The U.S. House 
of Representatives has acted. The Senate Finance Committee has acted. 
But the full Senate has yet to do so.
  I know that Chairman Hatch and Ranking Member Pallone believe this 
must be done as soon as possible. We have been working closely 
together, along with my fellow Oregonian, Senator Ron Wyden, to figure 
out how to get a bill to fund CHIP and public health extenders across 
the finish line. So, while we are frustrated we will not complete our 
work today, we are determined to continue to work with my colleagues to 
get this done early in January.
  I urge my colleagues to support the CR and these necessary funding 
extensions.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Minnesota (Ms. McCollum), the ranking member of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this continuing 
resolution.
  The Federal Government's fiscal year started 3 months ago. The 
Republican Congress still hasn't passed a full year of Federal 
spending. Rather than protecting our Nation and meeting the needs of 
the American people, we are now debating a third continuing resolution 
to kick the can into January.
  Republicans control this House, the Senate, and the White House, but, 
clearly, they do not take their responsibility to fund the Federal 
Government seriously. Frankly, they should be embarrassed.
  For the past 3 months, Democrats have sought to work with Republicans 
to secure a budget agreement and responsibly pass appropriations bills, 
but Republicans have been too busy to meet this basic responsibility. 
Instead, they have spent months working in secret on their deficit-
busting tax scam.
  Let's be clear: the Republican tax scam is part of this CR as well. 
The CR contains language to exempt the Republican's lavish tax cuts for 
big corporations and billionaires from the statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act.
  Republicans passed their tax scam knowing it was fiscally 
irresponsible and that it would trigger cuts to Medicare, the Crime 
Victims Fund, and other vital programs, and trigger an increase in 
Federal student loans. Now they are asking Democrats to help bail them 
out.
  While I didn't vote for the Republican tax scam and I am not going to 
paper over their mistakes so that President Trump can sign it into law, 
here is what I will do, Mr. Speaker.
  As the ranking member of the Interior, Environment, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, I know Republican appropriators 
are as frustrated I am. I want to work with them to find common ground 
and to responsibly fund our government. It is time for appropriators to 
do our jobs and for Republicans and Democrats to work together. It is 
time for us to get back to work and fund the Federal Government 
responsibly.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Ohio (Ms. Kaptur), the ranking member of the Energy and Water 
Subcommittee.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Lowey for yielding, 
and I rise in opposition to this continuing resolution that some might 
consider ridiculous.

[[Page H10399]]

  No matter how you look at it, Republicans have control of all of the 
reins of the Federal Government; yet we find ourselves, again, locked 
in an artificial crisis of their own creation on the third punt to try 
to run this government for another couple of weeks.
  First in September, then again 2 weeks ago, and now here again today, 
the government will be set on automatic pilot because President Trump 
and his fellow Republicans refuse to pass a real budget under regular 
order so the Appropriations Committee can get its work done within 
strict budget parameters. These last 3 months, Congress has been left 
to twiddle its thumbs while the list of unmet priorities for Americans 
has steadily grown.
  Most notably, let me address the Children's Health Insurance Program, 
or CHIP, that covers over 9 million children in our country and more 
than 220,000 in Ohio. In fact, that insurance program expired 81 days 
ago. It covers half the children in my district.
  How do you think it makes those families feel? What are they going to 
do after the end of March?
  Unfortunately, this spending bill only provides enough funding for 
the CHIP program through March 31, again kicking the can down the road.
  Let me mention, too, the budgets for community health centers, which 
also expired last September 30. They serve more than 25 million 
patients and are the Nation's largest source of primary comprehensive 
care for people in need. Don't they deserve full respect from this 
Congress for the life-giving work they do?
  Mr. Speaker, I will close with this. Up to 10 million private 
pensions are at risk across our country through no fault of the 
workers. Congress must act. But where is the leadership? Our solution 
is the Butch Lewis Act, which ensures America's private pensioners 
receive the benefits they earned.
  So whether it is helping our retirees or caring for our children, 
time and again Republicans are ignoring real middle class Americans.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman from Ohio an 
additional 15 seconds.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Yet, the Republicans had no problem finding trillions for 
billionaires who end up funding their campaigns, too.
  This prescription simply is bad medicine for America, and I ask my 
colleagues to vote ``no.''
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Tennessee (Mr. Roe), the chairman of the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the provision 
within this legislation that would authorize and appropriate $2.1 
billion for the Veterans Choice Program.
  Choice was created by Congress in 2014, following a nationwide 
Department of Veterans Affairs access and accountability crisis. Make 
no mistake about it: Choice has certainly not been without its faults 
in the last 3 years; however, the program has also resulted in millions 
of veterans receiving care they otherwise would have had to wait longer 
or travel further for--or maybe not receive at all.
  Absent passage of this provision, the Choice Program is expected to 
run out of money in early 2018, which could jeopardize the care that 
veterans across the country are receiving in their communities. This is 
totally unacceptable.
  The committee has been working diligently to create a permanent care 
in the community program to replace and improve upon Choice. In fact, I 
was proud to introduce H.R. 4242, the VA Care in the Community Act, 
last month. That legislation was favorably reported out of my committee 
just this week, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on 
community care reform. In the meantime, we cannot allow the care our 
veterans receive in the community through the Choice Program to be 
jeopardized by lack of funding.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter Secretary Shulkin sent 
me earlier this month.

                            The Secretary of Veterans Affairs,

                                Washington, DC, December 12, 2017.
     Hon. David P. Roe, M.D.,
     Chairman, Committee on Veterans' Affairs,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I write to raise issues for your 
     consideration regarding the financial status of the Veterans 
     Choice Program (VCP), established by the Veterans Access, 
     Choice and Accountability Act of 2014, Public Law 113-146, as 
     amended (Choice Act). Current projections indicate that VCP 
     could be unable to create new referrals or authorizations 
     within several weeks. Without additional funding before the 
     end of the year, there will be a dramatic impact on the 
     ability of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide 
     care to Veterans.
       As of December 7, 2017, VA has approximately $490 million 
     in VCP funds remaining, once December obligations of 
     approximately $300 million and reserve funding of 
     approximately $300 million are accounted for. The average 
     spend rate of VCP funds ranges from $200-$400 million per 
     month, with the possibility that unexpected obligations would 
     push this above and beyond the reserves. As a result, we 
     believe we have 3 to 5 weeks of funds left, which could 
     change based on Veteran utilization.
       Nearly 1.9 million unique Veterans have sought care through 
     VCP since its implementation. VA has focused on improving VCP 
     through streamlined business processes, contract 
     modifications and implementation of statutory changes. Unless 
     additional funds are provided, Veterans utilizing the current 
     VCP will be less able to access timely health care as close 
     to their homes as possible. The Veteran Coordinated Access & 
     Rewarding Experiences (CARE) Act, proposed by VA to Congress, 
     would satisfy the funding requirements if passed.
       The challenges of the transition from VCP to a new 
     Community Care program should not be underestimated, and VA 
     will need to take steps soon to responsibly prepare for the 
     termination date. If no action is taken by Congress in the 
     next 3 to 5 weeks, VA could have to discontinue authorizing 
     VCP care and transition Veterans to VA or other community 
     care programs. VA's other community care programs will not 
     have the capacity to handle all of the patients who will 
     transition from VCP, and the wait time for appointments at VA 
     facilities will rise if large numbers of Veterans return to 
     VA to seek care. Taking these actions would have a number of 
     negative consequences, including decreased access to care, 
     damaged community partnerships and interrupted care 
     continuity for Veterans.
       Should you have any questions, please have a member of your 
     staff contact Mr. David Brant, Congressional Relations 
     Officer.
           Sincerely,
                                            David J. Shulkin, M.D.

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. In this letter, Secretary Shulkin explicitly 
stated: ``Without additional funding before the end of the year, there 
will be a dramatic impact on the ability of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to provide care to veterans.''
  A vote against the continuing resolution is a vote against funding 
medical care for our Nation's heroes. The Secretary's message is clear, 
Mr. Speaker.
  I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting an additional 
$2.1 billion for the Choice Program.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Lee), a member of the Appropriations Committee.
  Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding and for 
her tremendous leadership on so many issues as a ranking member.
  As a member of the Appropriations and Budget Committees, I rise in 
strong opposition to this continuing resolution, which really could be 
called the ``Failure to Govern Resolution.''
  This bill, as my colleague from Ohio said, shamefully kicks the can 
down the road once again, this time until January 19.
  Why? Republicans have been too busy passing the greatest tax scam in 
history rather than responsibly funding the government.
  This reckless, short-term resolution ignores our critical year-end 
priorities like passing a bipartisan, long-term reauthorization of the 
Children's Health Insurance Program or a DACA program.
  Every day, 122, DACA recipients are losing their protections. They 
are afraid. They are fearful. There is so much anxiety. We should not 
do this today without protecting them.
  This continuing resolution does not honor the temporary protected 
status for immigrants. It does not raise the budget caps equally for 
defense and nondefense spending. Much-needed funding for the opioid 
epidemic, community health centers, and our veterans is also not 
included.
  I could go on and on about the problems with the CR, but I just have 
to tell you that the reality is this bill, like the tax giveaway, 
underscores the majority's complete lack of regard for everyday 
Americans and struggling families.

[[Page H10400]]

  Continuing resolutions leave the American people out on a limb, with 
no confidence in their Federal Government.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman from California an 
additional 30 seconds.
  Ms. LEE. I guess we should not be surprised by this approach, since 
the playbook for this administration from day one has been, as Steve 
Bannon said early on, that their goal was deconstruction of the 
administrative state. That is exactly what is happening with this CR. 
This is unacceptable.
  By passing a short-term spending bill that entirely neglects urgent 
and vital needs and underfunds job training, affordable housing, and 
education, we really are selling the American people short.
  Unfortunately, this is another effort to disregard the lives of 
millions of people. It is totally irresponsible, and it does nothing to 
help create jobs, better wages, or a better future for our children and 
their families.
  I urge a ``no'' vote on this bill. We need to begin to try to do our 
job here.

                              {time}  1615

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz), the ranking member of the Military 
Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this continuing 
resolution, which is, yet again, a complete abdication of our 
responsibilities as Members of Congress.
  What we have before us today is evidence that the so-called 
Republican leadership simply cannot deliver on the promises they have 
made to the American people. Instead, this Congress has decided to 
continue taking the ludicrous approach of funding the government for 
just a few weeks at a time, while ignoring the pressing issues that 
demand our attention.
  Over the last few weeks, Republicans in this Congress have decided to 
focus only on pushing through legislation designed to further enrich 
giant corporations, while adding $1.5 trillion to the deficit.
  Yet, to the DREAMers who teach our children, care for our sick, and 
serve our Nation, Republicans continue to say: You just have to wait.
  For millions of our most vulnerable--young kids suffering from 
illness and debilitating disease, who are reliant on the Children's 
Health Insurance Program--Republicans have made it clear their 
priorities lie elsewhere.
  And to those who have served our country with dignity and pride, the 
Republican majority has failed to provide urgently needed resources to 
address the dire shortfalls at the VA.
  Well, Mr. Speaker, the DREAMers cannot wait. The threat of 
deportation looms over these courageous individuals every single day. 
Sick children deserve our attention now. They should not be used as 
bargaining chips in this reckless debate. And our Nation's veterans 
need to know we have got their backs without delay. We cannot deny them 
the healthcare that they have earned.
  Don't tell me that we don't have the funds to support those who need 
us the most, when this Congress just gave a handout to those who need 
it the least.
  This pathetic continuing resolution fails to address the needs of the 
people who sent us here. It doesn't even come close.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting ``no.''
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of 
my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), the ranking member of the Labor, Health and 
Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this continuing 
resolution. Yet again we are punting one of our core obligations as 
Members of Congress: funding government programs.
  The Republican majority has failed to respond to the needs of the 
American people. They put services and investments that are critical to 
our families and our communities at risk: from apprenticeships to 
education for students with disabilities, child care, afterschool 
programs that help working families make ends meet, and financial aid 
for students attending college.
  We should be negotiating spending levels for 2018 for both defense 
and nondefense spending. We should have spent the last 2 months 
fulfilling our responsibility as legislators by writing bipartisan 
bills to fund programs that help the middle class and the vulnerable, 
support evidence-based scientific research, and help working people get 
the skills that they need to find good jobs with good wages.
  Instead, the Republican majority squandered the last 2 months focused 
on their tax scam, rewarding big corporations, millionaires, and 
billionaires who wrote the rules to make government work for them. Our 
Republican colleagues were their comrades in arms in rigging the game 
against the middle class.
  I am horrified by the majority's decision to put the future of the 
Children's Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, in jeopardy: kids' 
checkups, shots, prescriptions, dental and vision care, hospital care, 
and the list goes on.
  States are beginning to cut children off because of the majority's 
delay--my own State of Connecticut. The hardworking families that 
depend on CHIP deserve to know that it will be there for their children 
for the long term.
  How can the majority go on vacation while millions of children worry 
about losing their health insurance?
  This is a disgrace. This bill also cuts $750 million from the 
Prevention and Public Health Fund, which supports programs such as 
heart disease and stroke prevention, diabetes prevention, immunization 
and vaccination programs.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from Connecticut.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, it was only yesterday that our Republican 
colleagues voted to spend $1.5 trillion of taxpayers' money on tax cuts 
for millionaires. Eighty-three percent of the tax cuts go to 1 percent 
of the people in this Nation. Instead, they are cutting nearly $1 
billion from public health programs that protect them and their family.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this continuing 
resolution because it fails to meet the obligations that we are 
entrusted with, the moral responsibility that we have to the American 
people.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of 
my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Hoyer), the Democratic whip.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mrs. Lowey for yielding.
  Here we are again, Mr. Speaker. Two weeks ago, the Republican 
majority asked for another 2 weeks to write an appropriations package 
to fund the government, yet now they are asking to kick the can down 
the road one more time.
  We all knew that those 2 weeks were a pretense for getting the votes 
to pass their tax bill. We didn't make any progress on a bipartisan 
appropriations bill.
  Before that, Republicans asked for an additional 12 weeks in 
September. We all voted to give that 12 weeks.
  All of us know exactly why the can keeps being kicked farther and 
farther down the road. It is because the majority cannot muster a 
majority of their own Members to support bipartisan funding bills. 
Because the governing party, which controls the House, the Senate, and 
the White House, has not been able to govern.
  Senate Republican Whip John Cornyn said on Sunday: ``The can always 
seems to be kicked down the road.''
  Yet here we are again with Republicans doing exactly that.
  Mr. Speaker, let's call the CR for what it is: a chaotic retreat from 
rational, regular, and fiscal responsibility. We have alongside it a 
supplemental funding bill that provides some

[[Page H10401]]

additional emergency relief to those affected by natural disasters, but 
it ought to do more, in my opinion, to help those in Puerto Rico and 
the Virgin Islands.
  It has been 3 months since Hurricanes Irma and Maria devastated 
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and since Hurricane Harvey visited 
so much water on Houston.
  Many still do not have electricity or running water in Puerto Rico. 
These are our fellow Americans. We owe it to them and to ourselves to 
help them in their time of need.
  Mr. Speaker, Congress can do better, and it should do better. We 
should act in a bipartisan way.
  I was on the Appropriations Committee as an active member for 23 
years. I was a member of the Labor, Health and Human Services, 
Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittee. I told people that you 
could take the 13 of us--we were eight Democrats and five Republicans--
and thrown us up in the air, we would have come down in random seats, 
had a markup, and you would have been hard-pressed to identify the 
Democrat or the Republican, because we believed our responsibility was 
to fund the priorities of this country.
  Now, I know that we passed 12 bills.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, the Appropriations Committee used to be an 
extraordinarily bipartisan committee where we worked together, not on a 
partisan basis, but on a basis of trying to determine which priorities 
were important for our country, what funds were needed so that agencies 
could operate in an effective way. That, unfortunately, is not 
happening the way it did.
  So, Mr. Speaker, I urge my Republican friends, who control this 
House, and all the levers of government, to work with Democrats on 
making sure that all those who need emergency disaster relief, as well 
as those who need funds to operate their government agencies in a way 
that serves America best--I urge us to work together toward that end. I 
urge us because nobody believes these CRs are good policy, but they, 
unfortunately, are becoming regular, if not regular order.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of 
my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, once again, this is an epic failure of governing.
  How many more times will we have to pass a continuing resolution, 
which not only denies certainty to men and women in uniform and all 
Federal employees, but is an inefficient waste of taxpayer dollars?
  How many more times would the majority stumble from crisis to crisis, 
narrowly averting a shutdown?
  It is long past time that the majority work with Democrats to 
increase the budget caps and write full-year spending bills. The 
Appropriations Committee stands ready to do our job. I hope that 
Republican leadership finally does its job and agrees to permit 
reasonable spending bills that invest in America's future.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote 
``yes'' to keep the government open for business, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this 
Continuing Resolution because we can't keep kicking the can down the 
road, and that is all this CR will do.
  Since Republicans took control of the House in 2011, their approach 
to governing has been to pass short term extensions and Continuing 
Resolutions that merely delay the hard work of making decisions on the 
big issues facing our country.
  Eventually, after not completing their work on time, Republicans 
regularly force through an extension in order to deal with another 
crisis of their own making. This has happened over . . . and over . . . 
and over.
  And here we go again. We passed a CR in September and another one two 
weeks ago, and now we are being asked to give Republicans even more 
time to get the job done.
  Governing by repeated CRs means federal agencies can't plan for the 
future or begin new initiatives. This undermines our national security; 
endangers our homeland security, restricts investments in 
groundbreaking research to treat and cure diseases, and threatens the 
accuracy of the next decennial Census.
  This repeated inaction means we must now worry about keeping our 
government open at the same time we are trying to address several other 
large national challenges. For example, we are about to hit the 
nation's debt limit; Americans need help recovering from the hurricanes 
that hit Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Florida, and Texas and the 
wildfires that have ravaged California; people who depend on community 
health centers and the Children's Health Insurance Program are about to 
lose their healthcare; and we must protect the hundreds of thousands of 
Dreamers whose immigration status has been thrown into question.
  President Trump himself created this particular crisis for the 
millions of Dreamers living in this country. These young men and women 
are American in every way but their citizenship, and due to the 
President's actions, nearly 13 thousand of them have lost their DACA 
protections, an average of 122 per day. Tens of thousands more Dreamers 
will eventually lose their jobs and their protection against 
deportation if we do not take action.
  As the author of the Dream Act in the House, I believe it is inhumane 
to force Dreamers to live in fear and uncertainty for longer than 
absolutely necessary. We must act now. We can't afford to wait until 
the last minute for a solution, as Republicans have done so often while 
running Congress.
  We cannot keep kicking the can down the road. I oppose this CR and 
urge my colleagues to vote no so we can get the job done now.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the continuing resolution 
before us today.
  First, I'd like to acknowledge the Chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee, Chairman Frelinghuysen.
  Under his leadership, the Committee reported, and the whole House 
considered and passed, all twelve appropriations bills for fiscal year 
2018. That doesn't happen very often anymore, and the fact that we did 
it this year is a credit to our Chairman.
  We've heard complaints about considering another CR rather than full 
appropriations bills. And I agree that continuing resolutions aren't an 
ideal solution to funding our government. Ideally, all twelve 
appropriations bills would be enacted by October 1st.
  That process provides the Congress with its best opportunity to set 
priorities across government programs, and it provides the most 
stability for agencies to carry out those programs in an efficient and 
effective manner.
  But sometimes we need more time to complete those negotiations. For 
example, in 2010, the Democrats controlled both the House, the Senate, 
and the White House. Guess what happened when they hadn't completed the 
appropriations process on time?
  They passed a CR until the end of September. When they hadn't 
completed their work yet, they passed another CR until December 2nd. 
When they hadn't completed their work--they passed another CR until 
December 22.
  Then, when we took the majority, we ended up finishing the 
appropriations process.
  So while CR's aren't ideal, supporting a CR to keep our government 
functioning is the only responsible vote today--for national security, 
for our economy, and for the general welfare of the American people.
  As Chairman of the Energy and Water subcommittee, I am very familiar 
with the positive impacts the federal government has in each of these 
areas--whether it's the Department of Energy maintaining our nuclear 
weapons stockpile, the Corps of Engineers dredging our ports and 
waterways so goods and materials can move freely, or the Bureau of 
Reclamation providing tens of millions of people with water.
  We must avoid disruptions to these vital activities by passing the 
continuing resolution before us today and then working towards 
completing our work on final appropriations bills as quickly as 
possible.
  Will we get all our work done by the end of this next CR? I don't 
know.
  But one thing I can guarantee is that we will not get it done by 
tomorrow, and a vote against this resolution is a vote to shut down the 
government.
  I urge my colleagues to vote yes on the continuing resolution.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, Republicans have moved on from doing 
nothing to help middle-class America, to actively undoing everything 
America's middle class relies on. First, they cut taxes for 
corporations and the wealthy, instead of lifting up the middle class. 
And they did it twice. Now they're kicking the can down the road while 
millions of Americans suffer through the holidays. They've left 
millions of kids in the lurch for months by letting the Children's 
Health Insurance Program expire instead of protecting sick children in 
need of care. They have woefully underfunded recovery efforts in Puerto 
Rico, the Virgin Islands, Florida and Texas instead of guaranteeing 
clean water and electricity to our fellow Americans. And the icing on 
the cake: Republicans would leave 800,000 DREAMers--

[[Page H10402]]

Americans in every way but on paper--wondering whether their Christmas 
gift will be deportation papers. I cannot support Republicans' 
heartlessness. I cannot support Republicans' recklessness. I cannot 
support this bill without a fix for DREAMers.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak about H.R. 1370, 
``Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 
2017'' [Further Continuing Resolution].
  This resolution is an imperfect vehicle for appropriations for FY 
2018, because it does not reflect an effort to include bipartisan 
solutions to remaining Democratic priorities.
  H.R. 1370 not only fails to address remaining unsolved issues, but it 
also fails to fund the government through the end of FY 2018.
  Republicans have not consulted Democrats on anything that is included 
in this year-end legislation, accordingly the majority should not 
expect Democrats to vote on a bill that does not include the following 
priorities:
  A bipartisan, long-term reauthorization of the Children's Health 
Insurance Program (CHIP):
  CHIP, which provides health coverage to 9 million children, expired 
nearly three months ago.
  Republicans have only put forward legislation that cuts other 
critical health programs, an unacceptable trade-off.
  States have already begun taking steps to shut down their CHIP 
programs, and I will not vote for a Continuing Resolution (CR) that 
prevents children from obtaining health coverage.
  Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program:
  According to a report by the Center for American Progress, 122 
DREAMers are losing their protection every single day that Congress 
fails to act.
  Disaster aid:
  My district--Houston, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands are 
short-changed in the supplemental proposed by the majority.
  Among other glaring omissions, the Republican supplemental fails to 
include funding for their Medicaid programs, which are facing 
unprecedented demands following these ruinous hurricanes.
  An agreement to lift the Budget Control Act (BCA) spending caps:
  In the three months since a CR was passed in September, Republicans 
have not worked on a budget agreement that ensures Congress can 
adequately fund defense and nondefense priorities and adhere to the 
principle of parity between defense and non-defense spending.
  H.R. 1370 would provide $4.5 billion in emergency funding for the 
Department of Defense, as requested by the Trump administration on 
November 6.
  Most of that money is allocated for missile defense programs 
primarily targeting North Korea, an area that President Trump has 
failed to approach diplomatically and instead, has resorted to 
inflammatory threats, tweets, and other non-presidential approaches 
typical of this administration.
  In contrast, H.R. 1370 would provide a mere four-week extension of 
current funding for domestic needs.
  This continuing resolution would force both parties to revisit the 
domestic programs in January.
  Mr. Speaker, I will not accept this scheme and I highlight the 
importance of parity between defense and domestic programs in order to 
provide adequate funds for veterans' health, a pension bailout, opioid-
fighting programs, and medical research.
  Another major concern of this bill includes the unrevised extension 
of government surveillance powers; Congress has yet to agree on a 
proper revision of Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
Act.
  Section 702 of FISA was intended to be revised this month; however, 
the majority has failed to address that issue, adding one more 
unresolved priority to the list of neglected legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I am disappointed that we have again been placed in the 
position of having to fund the government through the device of a 
continuing resolution rather than through the normal appropriations 
process of considering and voting on separate spending bills usually 
reported by the Committee on Appropriations.
  The reason for this last minute resolution is due to the Republican 
leadership being solely focused on cutting taxes on the wealthy rather 
than coming up with a plan to keep the government open and serving its 
citizens.
  Republicans control the House, Senate, and the White House--they 
should have the votes to pass a CR on their own if they refuse to 
compromise with Democrats.
  The government shutdown of 2013, which was manufactured by the 
Republican majority lasted 16 days and cost taxpayers $24 billion.
  The enormous harm and disruption of the lives of federal employees 
and the people they serve, however, was irreparable.
  As I stated, Mr. Speaker, this Continuing Resolution is not perfect 
and it only funds the government until January 19, 2018.
  As seasoned Members of Congress, we have been in this challenging 
position before.
  But working together in a spirit of goodwill, bipartisanship, and 
realism, I believe we can reach a long-term agreement that will avert a 
shutdown of government operations and the disruption a shutdown causes 
to the lives of millions of Americans who depend upon federal programs 
to do their jobs, educate their kids, care for their parents, and 
contribute to their communities.
  Our constituents look to the Congress and the President to make 
responsible choices and decisions to keep the nation safe, the economy 
prosperous, and to make necessary and prudent investments in education, 
healthcare and research, transportation and infrastructure, economic 
development, science, the arts and humanities, and the environment.
  This is, after all, just another way of saying that the American 
people expect their leaders in Washington be guided by the 
Constitution's Preamble and pursue policies and provide the resources 
that will:

     establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for 
     the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure 
     the blessings of liberty.

  The funding priorities that have been floated by the Trump 
Administration fail this essential test of leadership because they are 
irresponsible, impracticable, unrealistic, and, in many respects, 
insensitive or indifferent to the deleterious impact they will have on 
the lives of real people living in the real world.
  They do not command majority support in the Congress or of the 
public.
  To win such support, I believe that it is essential that any 
subsequent continuing resolution or omnibus appropriations bill 
achieves the following goals and objectives:
  ``To establish justice'' and ``To promote the general welfare'':
  1. Full funding for the U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights 
Division and the Department of Education Office of Civil Rights so that 
they have funds needed to enforce laws protecting civil rights, voting 
rights, and prosecuting hate crimes.
  2. Fully funds community development block grants and low income 
housing programs in urban and rural communities.
  3. Fully funds the Legal Services Corporation so that working and 
low-income persons who lack an army of lobbyists to represent them in 
Washington will at least have the assistance of counsel to defend their 
legal rights in courts of law.
  4. Fully funds programs providing food assistance to housebound 
seniors, such as Meals on Wheels.
  5. Fully funds programs that provide students from low and moderate-
income families access to affordable access to higher education and 
provides students with special needs the support needed to receive the 
free appropriate public education (FAPE) in the least restrictive 
environment (LRE) guaranteed by the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act (IDEA Act).
  6. Fully funds before and after school programs and other student 
enrichment programs that help students succeed.
  7. Fully funds programs that make federal housing safer through 
energy efficient heating and cooling systems.
  8. Preserves tax credit programs that help revitalize low income 
communities.
  9. Fully funds the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of 
Energy programs developing the next generation of clean energy and 
transportation technologies.
  ``Provide for the common defense'':
  1. Provides robust funding for the Department of State and USAID to 
advance national security interests in places like Iraq and Afghanistan 
and to end violent conflicts in trouble spots which could threaten the 
security interests of the United States.
  2. Provides adequate funding for United Nations peacekeeping missions 
throughout the world and distribution of food aid to people in 
developing and famine stricken countries, such as South Sudan, Somalia, 
Yemen, and Nigeria.
  ``To ensure domestic tranquility'':
  1. Fully funds cost-sharing reduction subsidies, or CSRs, to 
compensate insurers for reducing deductibles and out-of-pocket maximums 
for low-income customers on the Affordable Care Act exchanges.
  2. Protects the adequacy, solvency, and integrity of the Medicare and 
Medicaid programs, which provide health sustaining support for 70 
million Americans.
  3. Fully funds the National Institutes of Health research programs so 
that patient access to lifesaving treatments is not delayed.
  4. Does not convert funding for the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention into block grants which would hindering the nation's ability 
to respond swiftly and effectively to public health crises like Ebola, 
Zika, and HIV/AIDS.
  Mr. Speaker, I believe that if all members of the House and Senate 
work together, we can reach agreement on an appropriate budget 
framework that that invests in the American

[[Page H10403]]

people, preserves our national security, and keeps faith with the 
values that have served our nation well and made the United States the 
leading nation on earth.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to House Resolution 670, the previous question is ordered.
  The question is on the motion by the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
Frelinghuysen).
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the motion will be followed by 5-minute votes on:
  Passage of H.R. 4667;
  The motion to suspend the rules and pass S. 1532; and
  The motion to suspend the rules and pass S. 1766, if ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 231, 
nays 188, not voting 13, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 708]

                               YEAS--231

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Crist
     Culberson
     Curtis
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Delaney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Frelinghuysen
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lawson (FL)
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Roskam
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Ryan (WI)
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schneider
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Sewell (AL)
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NAYS--188

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gosar
     Green, Al
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hunter
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jordan
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Labrador
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Massie
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Nadler
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Ross
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Wittman
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--13

     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Granger
     Green, Gene
     Jones
     Kennedy
     Napolitano
     Pocan
     Renacci
     Smith (TX)
     Suozzi

                              {time}  1653

  Messrs. HOLLINGSWORTH, McNERNEY, PETERSON, and ROSS changed their 
vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''
  Mr. GOHMERT, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Messrs. LAWSON of Florida, and 
DELANEY changed their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''
  So the motion to concur was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
  Stated against:
  Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speaker, had I been present, I would have 
voted ``Nay'' on rollcall No. 708.

                          ____________________



