

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5742-S5743]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself and Mr. Boozman):
       S. 1805. A bill to require the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     establish a program to recognize farms that have been in 
     continuous operation for 100 years; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Casey, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Leahy, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Wyden, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr.

[[Page S5743]]

             Booker, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Hassan, 
             Ms. Harris, Mr. Reed, Mr. Udall, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 1806. A bill to amend the Child Care and Development 
     Block Grant Act of 1990 and the Head Start Act to promote 
     child care and early learning, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Schatz, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 1807. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to develop a national strategic action plan and 
     program to assist health professionals in preparing for and 
     responding to the public health effects of climate change, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Portman, Mr. Casey, 
             Ms. Collins, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Reed, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 1808. A bill to extend temporarily the Federal Perkins 
     Loan program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself and Mr. Burr):
       S. 1809. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish the Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing 
     Transportation (SMART) Challenge Grant Program to promote 
     technological innovation in our Nation's cities; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 1810. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     provide access to free credit freezes for all consumers; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Franken, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Hirono, 
             Mr. Markey, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 1811. A bill to promote merger enforcement and protect 
     competition through adjusting premerger filing fees, 
     increasing antitrust enforcement resources, and improving the 
     information provided to antitrust enforcers; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1812. A bill to amend the Clayton Act to modify the 
     standard for an unlawful acquisition, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BALDWIN:
       S. 1813. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide credit toward computation of years of service for 
     nonregular service retired pay for completion of remotely 
     delivered military education or training; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Mr. Wyden, Mr. Casey, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. 
             Warner):
       S. 1814. A bill to provide support for the development of 
     middle school career exploration programs linked to career 
     and technical education programs of study; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Franken, and Mr. Sanders):
       S. 1815. A bill to require data brokers to establish 
     procedures to ensure the accuracy of collected personal 
     information, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Menendez, 
             Mr. Van Hollen, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Merkley, and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1816. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     enhance fraud alert procedures and provide free access to 
     credit freezes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Schumer, 
             and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 1817. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand tax-free distributions from individual retirement 
     accounts for charitable purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. ENZI:
       S. 1818. A bill to provide health care options for small 
     businesses; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Wyden, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Schatz, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Murphy, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Markey, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Merkley, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 1819. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     prohibit the use of consumer credit checks against 
     prospective and current employees for the purposes of making 
     adverse employment decisions; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. McCain, Ms. 
             Collins, and Mr. Reed):
       S. 1820. A bill to provide for the retention and service of 
     transgender members of the Armed Forces; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Graham):
       S. 1821. A bill to establish the National Commission on the 
     Cybersecurity of United States Election Systems, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Heitkamp, and Mr. 
             Manchin):
       S. 1822. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permit amounts paid for programs to obtain a recognized 
     postsecondary credential or a license to be treated as 
     qualified higher education expenses for purposes of a 529 
     account; to the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



