

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7896-H7897]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              STAFF SERGEANT RYAN SCOTT OSTROM POST OFFICE

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 1858) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 4514 Williamson Trail in Liberty, Pennsylvania, as 
the ``Staff Sergeant Ryan Scott Ostrom Post Office''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1858

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. STAFF SERGEANT RYAN SCOTT OSTROM POST OFFICE.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 4514 Williamson Trail in Liberty, 
     Pennsylvania, shall be known and designated as the ``Staff 
     Sergeant Ryan Scott Ostrom Post Office''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Staff Sergeant Ryan Scott Ostrom Post 
     Office''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Montana (Mr. Gianforte) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Gomez) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Montana.


                             General Leave

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Montana?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1858 introduced by 
Congressman Marino from Pennsylvania. The bill names the Liberty, 
Pennsylvania, Post Office at 4514 Williamson Trail the Staff Sergeant 
Ryan Scott Ostrom Post Office in honor of Staff Sergeant Ostrom, who, 
in 2005, was killed in the line of duty in Iraq.

[[Page H7897]]

  Mr. Speaker, I now yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Marino), the sponsor of the bill.
  Mr. MARINO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my legislation to 
rename the Liberty, Pennsylvania, post office after Staff Sergeant Ryan 
Scott Ostrom.
  Ryan was born on September 23, 1979, in Wellsboro, Pennsylvania, 
where he attended Liberty High School. While in high school, Ryan 
excelled in soccer, basketball, and baseball--serving as the captain 
for the soccer and basketball teams.
  After graduating from high school, he attended Mansfield University 
and pursued a degree in education science. Ryan planned to become a 
teacher and a coach to help young people become successful students, 
athletes, and leaders within the community.
  However, just months before Ryan was set to graduate from college, 
his National Guard unit was deployed to Iraq. While serving his country 
in Iraq, Ryan made the ultimate sacrifice, as he was killed in action 
on August 9, 2005.
  Ryan enlisted in the Pennsylvania Army National Guard in 1997, 
serving with Company B, First Battalion 109th in Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania. Ryan was an accomplished soldier with a bevy of previous 
accomplishments and commendations.
  During his time enlisted, Ryan earned a Purple Heart, Combat 
Information Badge, Gold Star, Armed Service Ribbon, and numerous other 
awards that gave Ryan the recognition he deserved for his heroic years 
of service.
  Beyond these awards, Ryan also took advantage of what the military 
had to offer, graduating from the U.S. Army Europe Primary Leadership 
Development Course, which furthered his ability to lead both on 
deployment and in the communities about which he cared so deeply.
  While Ryan will always be remembered for his valor and his years of 
military service, he will also be remembered for what he brought to the 
communities of which he was a part.
  In his free time, Ryan could be found playing Monday night basketball 
with his friends at home and was an active member of the Eagle Base 
basketball team during his deployment.
  Staff Sergeant Ryan Ostrom prioritized the world around him--his 
country, his community, his family--all over himself. His years of 
service and his record speak for themselves, but beyond that, Ryan made 
a positive impact as a friend and a role model wherever he was.
  He was a soldier and leader on his deployments and an active member 
of the community back home in Wellsboro. Mr. Speaker, I ask that all 
Members support this legislation to honor Ryan by renaming the Liberty 
Post Office as the Staff Sergeant Ryan Scott Ostrom Post Office.
  Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 1858, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Post 
Office located at 4514 Williamson Trail in Liberty, Pennsylvania, as 
the Staff Sergeant Ryan Scott Ostrom Post Office.
  Born in Wellsboro, Pennsylvania, in 1979, Mr. Ostrom graduated from 
high school and then joined the Pennsylvania Army National Guard while 
beginning his studies at Mansfield University. A sports lover, Ryan 
could frequently be found playing and coaching basketball in his free 
time.
  In 2002, Ryan joined his father, Scott Ostrom, on a peacekeeping 
mission in Bosnia, and he later deployed to Iraq with the 109th 
Infantry Regiment.
  Staff Sergeant Ryan Ostrom tragically made the ultimate sacrifice in 
August of 2005, when he sustained fatal wounds from enemy small-arms 
fire in Iraq. He was, as mentioned, awarded the Bronze Star, Purple 
Heart, Good Conduct Medal, and Combat Infantryman Badge from the 
Department of the Army, as well as the Pennsylvania Meritorious Service 
Medal from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to recognize the bravery and 
selflessness of the honorable service of Staff Sergeant Ryan Scott 
Ostrom.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of H.R. 1858, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill in 
recognition of Staff Sergeant Ostrom's sacrifice to our Nation, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Montana (Mr. Gianforte) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1858.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



