

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4883-S4889]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 752. Mr. ALEXANDER (for Mr. Manchin) proposed an amendment to the 
bill S. 581, to include information concerning a patient's opioid 
addiction in certain medical records; as follows:

       Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as ``Jessie's Law''.

     SEC. 2. INCLUSION OF OPIOID ADDICTION HISTORY IN PATIENT 
                   RECORDS.

       (a) Best Practices.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services, in consultation with appropriate stakeholders, 
     including a patient with a history of opioid use disorder, an 
     expert in electronic health records, an expert in the 
     confidentiality of patient health information and records, 
     and a health care provider, shall identify or facilitate the 
     development of best practices regarding--
       (A) the circumstances under which information that a 
     patient has provided to a health care provider regarding such 
     patient's history of opioid use disorder should, only at the 
     patient's request, be prominently displayed in the medical 
     records (including electronic health records) of such 
     patient;
       (B) what constitutes the patient's request for the purpose 
     described in subparagraph (A); and
       (C) the process and methods by which the information should 
     be so displayed.
       (2) Dissemination.--The Secretary shall disseminate the 
     best practices developed under paragraph (1) to health care 
     providers and State agencies.
       (b) Requirements.--In identifying or facilitating the 
     development of best practices under subsection (a), as 
     applicable, the Secretary, in consultation with appropriate 
     stakeholders, shall consider the following:
       (1) The potential for addiction relapse or overdose, 
     including overdose death, when opioid medications are 
     prescribed to a patient recovering from opioid use disorder.
       (2) The benefits of displaying information about a 
     patient's opioid use disorder history in a manner similar to 
     other potentially lethal medical concerns, including drug 
     allergies and contraindications.
       (3) The importance of prominently displaying information 
     about a patient's opioid use disorder when a physician or 
     medical professional is prescribing medication, including 
     methods for avoiding alert fatigue in providers.
       (4) The importance of a variety of appropriate medical 
     professionals, including physicians, nurses, and pharmacists, 
     to have access to information described in this section when 
     prescribing or dispensing opioid medication, consistent with 
     Federal and State laws and regulations.
       (5) The importance of protecting patient privacy, including 
     the requirements related to consent for disclosure of 
     substance use disorder information under all applicable laws 
     and regulations.
       (6) All applicable Federal and State laws and regulations.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 753. Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mr. Donnelly, and Mrs. Capito) 
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 204, to authorize the use of 
unapproved medical products by patients diagnosed with a terminal 
illness in accordance with State law, and for other purposes; as 
follows:

       Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Trickett Wendler, Frank 
     Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try 
     Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. USE OF UNAPPROVED INVESTIGATIONAL DRUGS BY PATIENTS 
                   DIAGNOSED WITH A TERMINAL ILLNESS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act is amended by inserting after section 561A (21 
     U.S.C. 360bbb-0) the following:

[[Page S4884]]

  


     ``SEC. 561B. INVESTIGATIONAL DRUGS FOR USE BY ELIGIBLE 
                   PATIENTS.

       ``(a) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
       ``(1) the term `eligible patient' means a patient--
       ``(A) who has been diagnosed with a life-threatening 
     disease or condition (as defined in section 312.81 of title 
     21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor 
     regulations));
       ``(B) who has exhausted approved treatment options and is 
     unable to participate in a clinical trial involving the 
     eligible investigational drug, as certified by a physician, 
     who--
       ``(i) is in good standing with the physician's licensing 
     organization or board; and
       ``(ii) will not be compensated directly by the manufacturer 
     for so certifying; and
       ``(C) who has provided to the treating physician written 
     informed consent regarding the eligible investigational drug, 
     or, as applicable, on whose behalf a legally authorized 
     representative of the patient has provided such consent;
       ``(2) the term `eligible investigational drug' means an 
     investigational drug (as such term is used in section 561)--
       ``(A) for which a Phase 1 clinical trial has been 
     completed;
       ``(B) that has not been approved or licensed for any use 
     under section 505 of this Act or section 351 of the Public 
     Health Service Act;
       ``(C)(i) for which an application has been filed under 
     section 505(b) of this Act or section 351(a) of the Public 
     Health Service Act; or
       ``(ii) that is under investigation in a clinical trial 
     that--
       ``(I) is intended to form the primary basis of a claim of 
     effectiveness in support of approval or licensure under 
     section 505 of this Act or section 351 of the Public Health 
     Service Act; and
       ``(II) is the subject of an active investigational new drug 
     application under section 505(i) of this Act or section 
     351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act, as applicable; 
     and
       ``(D) the active development or production of which is 
     ongoing and has not been discontinued by the manufacturer or 
     placed on clinical hold under section 505(i); and
       ``(3) the term `phase 1 trial' means a phase 1 clinical 
     investigation of a drug as described in section 312.21 of 
     title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor 
     regulations).
       ``(b) Exemptions.--Eligible investigational drugs provided 
     to eligible patients in compliance with this section are 
     exempt from sections 502(f), 503(b)(4), 505(a), and 505(i) of 
     this Act, section 351(a) of the Public Health Service Act, 
     and parts 50, 56, and 312 of title 21, Code of Federal 
     Regulations (or any successor regulations), provided that the 
     sponsor of such eligible investigational drug or any person 
     who manufactures, distributes, prescribes, dispenses, 
     introduces or delivers for introduction into interstate 
     commerce, or provides to an eligible patient an eligible 
     investigational drug pursuant to this section is in 
     compliance with the applicable requirements set forth in 
     sections 312.6, 312.7, and 312.8(d)(1) of title 21, Code of 
     Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations) that apply 
     to investigational drugs.
       ``(c) Use of Clinical Outcomes.--
       ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     this Act, the Public Health Service Act, or any other 
     provision of Federal law, the Secretary may not use a 
     clinical outcome associated with the use of an eligible 
     investigational drug pursuant to this section to delay or 
     adversely affect the review or approval of such drug under 
     section 505 of this Act or section 351 of the Public Health 
     Service Act unless--
       ``(A) the Secretary makes a determination, in accordance 
     with paragraph (2), that use of such clinical outcome is 
     critical to determining the safety of the eligible 
     investigational drug; or
       ``(B) the sponsor requests use of such outcomes.
       ``(2) Limitation.--If the Secretary makes a determination 
     under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall provide written 
     notice of such determination to the sponsor, including a 
     public health justification for such determination, and such 
     notice shall be made part of the administrative record. Such 
     determination shall not be delegated below the director of 
     the agency center that is charged with the premarket review 
     of the eligible investigational drug.
       ``(d) Reporting.--
       ``(1) In general.--The manufacturer or sponsor of an 
     eligible investigational drug shall submit to the Secretary 
     an annual summary of any use of such drug under this section. 
     The summary shall include the number of doses supplied, the 
     number of patients treated, the uses for which the drug was 
     made available, and any known serious adverse events. The 
     Secretary shall specify by regulation the deadline of 
     submission of such annual summary and may amend section 
     312.33 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
     successor regulations) to require the submission of such 
     annual summary in conjunction with the annual report for an 
     applicable investigational new drug application for such 
     drug.
       ``(2) Posting of information.--The Secretary shall post an 
     annual summary report of the use of this section on the 
     internet website of the Food and Drug Administration, 
     including the number of drugs for which clinical outcomes 
     associated with the use of an eligible investigational drug 
     pursuant to this section was--
       ``(A) used in accordance with subsection (c)(1)(A);
       ``(B) used in accordance with subsection (c)(1)(B); and
       ``(C) not used in the review of an application under 
     section 505 of this Act or section 351 of the Public Health 
     Service Act.''.
       (b) No Liability.--
       (1) Alleged acts or omissions.--With respect to any alleged 
     act or omission with respect to an eligible investigational 
     drug provided to an eligible patient pursuant to section 561B 
     of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and in compliance 
     with such section, no liability in a cause of action shall 
     lie against--
       (A) a sponsor or manufacturer; or
       (B) a prescriber, dispenser, or other individual entity 
     (other than a sponsor or manufacturer), unless the relevant 
     conduct constitutes reckless or willful misconduct, gross 
     negligence, or an intentional tort under any applicable State 
     law.
       (2) Determination not to provide drug.--No liability shall 
     lie against a sponsor manufacturer, prescriber, dispenser or 
     other individual entity for its determination not to provide 
     access to an eligible investigational drug under section 561B 
     of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
       (3) Limitation.--Except as set forth in paragraphs (1) and 
     (2), nothing in this section shall be construed to modify or 
     otherwise affect the right of any person to bring a private 
     action under any State or Federal product liability, tort, 
     consumer protection, or warranty law.

     SEC. 3. SENSE OF THE SENATE.

       It is the sense of the Senate that section 561B of the 
     Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by section 2--
       (1) does not establish a new entitlement or modify an 
     existing entitlement, or otherwise establish a positive right 
     to any party or individual;
       (2) does not establish any new mandates, directives, or 
     additional regulations;
       (3) only expands the scope of individual liberty and agency 
     among patients, in limited circumstances;
       (4) is consistent with, and will act as an alternative 
     pathway alongside, existing expanded access policies of the 
     Food and Drug Administration;
       (5) will not, and cannot, create a cure or effective 
     therapy where none exists;
       (6) recognizes that the eligible terminally ill patient 
     population often consists of those patients with the highest 
     risk of mortality, and use of experimental treatments under 
     the criteria and procedure described in such section 561A 
     involves an informed assumption of risk; and
       (7) establishes national standards and rules by which 
     investigational drugs may be provided to terminally ill 
     patients.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 754. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2430, to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act to revise and extend the user-fee programs for 
prescription drugs, medical devices, generic drugs, and biosimilar 
biological products, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie 
on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IX, insert the following:

     SEC. 906. BAN ON CHARACTERIZING FLAVORS IN NEWLY DEEMED 
                   TOBACCO PRODUCTS.

       A product that is a newly deemed tobacco product under the 
     rule entitled ``Deeming Tobacco Products To Be Subject to the 
     Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as Amended by the 
     Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act; 
     Restrictions on the Sale and Distribution of Tobacco Products 
     and Required Warning Statements for Tobacco Products'', 
     published May 10, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 28973), or any of 
     component parts of such tobacco product (including the 
     tobacco, filter, or paper) shall not contain, as a 
     constituent (including a smoke constituent) or additive, an 
     artificial or natural flavor (other than tobacco or menthol) 
     or an herb or spice, including strawberry, grape, orange, 
     clove, cinnamon, pineapple, vanilla, coconut, licorice, 
     cocoa, chocolate, cherry, or coffee, that is a characterizing 
     flavor of the tobacco product or tobacco smoke.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 755. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2430, to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act to revise and extend the user-fee programs for 
prescription drugs, medical devices, generic drugs, and biosimilar 
biological products, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie 
on the table; as follows:

       At the end of title IX, insert the following:

     SEC. 906. TOBACCO PRODUCTS.

       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Commissioner of Food and Drugs may not delay the deadline, 
     set forth in the rule entitled ``Deeming Tobacco Products To 
     Be Subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as 
     Amended by the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control 
     Act; Restrictions on the Sale and Distribution of Tobacco 
     Products and Required Warning Statements for Tobacco 
     Products'', published May 10, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 28973), for 
     submission of premarket tobacco product applications required 
     for new tobacco products under section 910 of the Federal 
     Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387j).

[[Page S4885]]

  

                                 ______
                                 
  SA 756. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. REPORT ON COMPLIANCE WITH RUNWAY CLEAR ZONE 
                   REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Service secretaries, shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees a report on Service 
     compliance with Department of Defense and relevant Service 
     policies regarding Department of Defense runway clear zones.
       (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following elements:
       (1) A listing of all Department of Defense runway clear 
     zones in the United States that are not in compliance with 
     Department of Defense and relevant Service policies regarding 
     Department of Defense runway clear zones.
       (2) A plan for bringing all Department of Defense runway 
     clear zones in full compliance with these policies, including 
     a description of the resources required to bring these clear 
     zones into policy compliance, and for providing restitution 
     for property owners.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 757. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title VII, add the following:

     SEC. 737. TRANSFER TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF AUTHORITY TO 
                   OPERATE NATIONAL BIODEFENSE ANALYSIS AND 
                   COUNTERMEASURES CENTER.

       (a) In General.--There is transferred from the Department 
     of Homeland Security to the Department of Defense the 
     authority to operate the National Biodefense Analysis and 
     Countermeasures Center (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Center'').
       (b) Transfer of Amounts.--The Secretary of Homeland 
     Security shall transfer to the Secretary of Defense such 
     amounts as may be necessary to operate the Center for a two-
     year period.
       (c) Timing of Transfer.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall conduct an expedient transfer of authority under 
     subsection (a) and amounts under subsection (b) within one 
     year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (d) Role of Department of Defense After Transfer.--After 
     the transfer of authority under subsection (a), the Secretary 
     of Defense shall--
       (1) serve as the executive agent and custodian for 
     operations of the Center;
       (2) support the activities of the Center, particularly 
     those activities that support Federal government customers;
       (3) ensure that the needs of all customers of the Center 
     are met; and
       (4) enter into memoranda of understanding with 
     beneficiaries of the Center to ensure equitable cost sharing 
     in the activities of the Center.
       (e) Ongoing Operations.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
     and the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the transfer 
     of authority under subsection (a) does not diminish or 
     curtail the ongoing operations of the Center.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 758. Ms. BALDWIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. EXEMPTION FROM CALCULATION OF MONTHLY INCOME, FOR 
                   PURPOSES OF BANKRUPTCY LAWS, CERTAIN PAYMENTS 
                   FROM DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       Section 101(10A) of title 11, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(B)(i) includes any amount paid by any entity other than 
     the debtor (or in a joint case the debtor and the debtor's 
     spouse), on a regular basis for the household expenses of the 
     debtor or the debtor's dependents (and in a joint case the 
     debtor's spouse if not otherwise a dependent); and
       ``(ii) excludes--
       ``(I) benefits received under the Social Security Act;
       ``(II) payments to victims of war crimes or crimes against 
     humanity on account of their status as victims of such 
     crimes;
       ``(III) payments to victims of international terrorism (as 
     defined in section 2331 of title 18) or domestic terrorism 
     (as defined in section 2331 of title 18) on account of their 
     status as victims of such terrorism;
       ``(IV) compensation under chapter 11 of title 38;
       ``(V) compensation under chapter 13 of title 38;
       ``(VI) pension under chapter 15 of title 38;
       ``(VII) retired pay payable to members of the Armed Forces 
     retired under section 1201 or 1204 of title 10;
       ``(VIII) retired pay payable to members of the Armed Forces 
     placed on the temporary disability retired list under section 
     1202 or 1205 of title 10;
       ``(IX) disability severance pay payable under section 1212 
     of title 10 to members separated from the Armed Forces under 
     section 1203 or 1206 of that title;
       ``(X) retired pay payable in accordance with section 1201 
     or 1202 of title 10, or disability severance pay payable in 
     accordance with section 1203 of that title, to members of the 
     Armed Forces eligible for such pay by reason of section 1207a 
     of that title;
       ``(XI) combat-related special compensation payable under 
     section 1413a of title 10;
       ``(XII) any monthly annuity payable under the Survivor 
     Benefit Plan under subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 10 if 
     the participant in the Plan with respect to whom the annuity 
     is payable was retired for physical disability under chapter 
     61 of that title;
       ``(XIII) the special survivor indemnity allowance payable 
     under section 1450(m) of title 10; and
       ``(XIV) any monthly special compensation payable to members 
     of the uniformed services with catastrophic injuries or 
     illnesses under section 439 of title 37.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 759. Ms. BALDWIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the following:

     SEC. ___. ACCELERATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION 
                   ACTIVITIES AT FORMER ARMY AMMUNITION PLANTS.

       (a) Availability of Funds.--Of the amount authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal year 2018 by section 301 and 
     available for environmental restoration, Army, as specified 
     in the funding table in section 4301, not less than 
     $100,000,000 shall be used to accelerate ongoing remediation 
     activities at former Army ammunition plants.
       (b) Remediation Activities Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``remediation activities'' includes actions required 
     under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
     and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) in 
     connection with environmental remediation, the development, 
     deployment, and operation of appropriate groundwater 
     remediation to provide clean drinking water to impacted 
     communities, the testing of groundwater contaminant levels, 
     and engagements with such communities to incorporate 
     preferred approaches to environmental remediation.
       In the funding table in section 4201, in the item relating 
     to the Long Range Standoff Weapon of the Air Force, decrease 
     the amount in the Senate Authorized column by $100,000,000.
       In the funding table in section 4301, in the item relating 
     to Environmental Restoration, Amy, increase the amount in the 
     Senate Authorized column by $100,000,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 760. Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr. Sullivan) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike section 1606 and insert the following:

     SEC. 1606. LAUNCH SUPPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION.

       (a) In General.--In support of the policy outlined in 
     section 2273 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall carry out a program to modernize 
     infrastructure and improve support activities for processing 
     and launch of United States national security space missions 
     from ranges owned or operated by the Federal Government or 
     State governments.
       (b) Elements.--The program required by this section shall 
     include--
       (1) investments in infrastructure to improve operations at 
     ranges in the United States that may benefit all users, to 
     enhance the overall capabilities of those ranges, to

[[Page S4886]]

     improve safety, and to reduce the long-term cost of 
     operations and maintenance;
       (2) measures to normalize processes, systems, and products 
     across the ranges described in paragraph (1) to minimize the 
     burden on launch providers; and
       (3) improvements in transparency, flexibility, and 
     responsiveness for launch scheduling.
       (c) Consultation.--In carrying out the program required by 
     this section, the Secretary should consult with current and 
     anticipated users of ranges in the United States.
       (d) Cooperation.--In carrying out this section, the 
     Secretary should consider partnerships authorized under 
     section 2276 of title 10, United States Code.
       (e) Report.--
       (1) Report required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report on the plan 
     for the implementation of the launch support and 
     infrastructure modernization program at ranges in the United 
     States.
       (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
     shall include--
       (A) a description of plans and the resources needed to 
     improve launch support infrastructure, utilities, support 
     equipment, and range operations;
       (B) a description of plans to streamline and normalize 
     processes, systems, and products at ranges described in 
     paragraph (1) to ensure consistency for range users; and
       (C) recommendations for improving transparency, 
     flexibility, and responsiveness in launch scheduling.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 761. Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Scott) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. IMPORTANCE OF HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND 
                   UNIVERSITIES AND MINORITY-SERVING INSTITUTIONS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
       (1) historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) 
     and minority-serving institutions play a vital role in 
     educating low-income and underrepresented students in areas 
     of national need;
       (2) HBCUs and minority-serving institutions presently are 
     collaborating with the Department of Defense in research and 
     development efforts that contribute to the defense readiness 
     and national security of the Nation;
       (3) by their research these institutions are helping to 
     develop the next generation of scientists and engineers who 
     will help lead the Department of Defense in addressing high-
     priority national security challenges; and
       (4) it is important to further engage HBCUs and minority-
     serving institutions in university research and innovation, 
     especially in prioritizing software development and cyber 
     security by utilizing existing Department of Defense labs, 
     and collaborating with existing programs that help attract 
     candidates, including programs like the Air Force Minority 
     Leaders Programs, which recruit Americans from diverse 
     background to serve their country through service in our 
     Nation's military.
       (b) Increase.--Funding in Research, Development, Test, and 
     Evaluation, Defense-wide, PE 61228D8Z, section 4201, for 
     Basic Research, Historically Black Colleges and Universities/
     Minority Institutions, Line 006, is hereby increased by 
     $12,000,000.
       (c) Offset.--Funding in section 4101 for Other Procurement, 
     Army, for Automated Data Processing Equipment, Line 108, is 
     hereby reduced by $12,000,000.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 762. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the following:

     SEC. __. REPORTS ON COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES 
                   RECOMMENDATIONS NOT FULLY IMPLEMENTED BY THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Secretary of Defense Report.--Not later than 30 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
     the Senate and the House of Representatives and the 
     Comptroller General of the United States a report listing all 
     outstanding recommendations of the Comptroller General 
     applicable to the Department of Defense that have not been 
     fully implemented.
       (b) Comptroller General Report.--Not later than 30 days 
     after the date on which the Secretary submits the report 
     required by subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a report detailing any 
     discrepancies between the list of outstanding recommendations 
     included in such report and the list of the Comptroller 
     General of the outstanding recommendations applicable to the 
     Department that have not been fully implemented.
       (c) Implementation Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report on the status of implementation of 
     each recommendation of the Comptroller General listed in the 
     report under subsection (a).
       (2) Justification.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
     shall include the following:
       (A) For each recommendation listed in the report that the 
     Department decided not to fully implement, or to implement in 
     a different manner than recommended by the Comptroller 
     General, a detailed justification for the decision.
       (B) For each recommendation the Department decided to 
     adopt, but has not fully implemented, a timeline for full 
     implementation.
       (C) An explanation for any discrepancies between the report 
     and the Comptroller General report submitted under subsection 
     (b).
       (d) Form.--Any information included in a report under this 
     section shall, to the extent practicable, be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may be set forth in a classified 
     annex.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 763. Mr. ROUNDS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title V, add the following:

     SEC. ___. ANNUAL REPORT ON PARTICIPATION IN THE TRANSITION 
                   ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES.

       Section 1144 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(g) Annual Report.--(1) Not later than February 28 each 
     year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a 
     report on the participation of members of the armed forces in 
     the program under this section during the preceding year.
       ``(2) Each report under this subsection shall set forth, 
     for the year covered by such report, the following:
       ``(A) The number of members who were eligible for 
     participation in the program, in aggregate and by component 
     of the armed forces.
       ``(B) The number of members who participated in the 
     program, in aggregate and by component of the armed forces, 
     for each of the following:
       ``(i) Preseparation counseling provided by the Department 
     of Defense.
       ``(ii) Briefings provided by the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs.
       ``(iii) Employment workshops provided by the Department of 
     Labor.
       ``(C) The number of members who did not participate in the 
     program due to a waiver of the participation requirement 
     under subsection (c)(2) for each service set forth in 
     subparagraph (B).
       ``(3) Each report under this subsection may also include 
     such recommendations for legislative or administrative action 
     as the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and 
     the Secretary of Homeland Security, considers appropriate to 
     increase participation of members of the armed forces in each 
     service set forth in paragraph (2)(B).''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 764. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. FACILITIES REDUCTION PROGRAM.

       The Secretary of the Army shall consider the following 
     factors when making resource allocations from the Facilities 
     Reduction Program:
       (1) The potential risk of contaminated unused facilities to 
     Army readiness and to Army missions.
       (2) The cost to maintain and secure unused and obsolete 
     facilities.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 765. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed

[[Page S4887]]

by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle D of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDING SUPPORT FOR THE 
                   NATIONAL CONSORTIUM FOR THE STUDY OF TERRORISM 
                   AND RESPONSES TO TERRORISM.

       From amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise 
     made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
     2018, the Secretary of Defense may provide funds to the 
     National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses 
     to Terrorism (START) in order to support programs and 
     activities of the National Consortium that contribute to 
     Department of Defense missions and capabilities.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 766. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. IMPROVEMENT OF AUTHORITIES ON PROTECTION OF CERTAIN 
                   FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

       Subparagraph (C) of section 130i(e)(1) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(C) relates to--
       ``(i) the airspace above a military installation, airfield, 
     or range;
       ``(ii) any area within 500 meters horizontally or 
     vertically of a military aircraft, vessel, or convoy;
       ``(iii) any restricted, limited, or exclusion area of a 
     military installation;
       ``(iv) any airspace that is prohibited or restricted for 
     military purposes;
       ``(v) any area the presence in which of an unmanned 
     aircraft or unmanned aircraft system could interfere with 
     lawful defense activities, including airfield and military 
     operations and training; or
       ``(vi) any area the presence in which of an unmanned 
     aircraft or unmanned aircraft system could pose a national 
     security risk through the unauthorized disclosure of 
     sensitive or classified information.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 767. Mr. PERDUE proposed an amendment to the bill S. 765, to amend 
title 18, United States Code, to provide for penalties for the sale of 
any Purple Heart awarded to a member of the Armed Forces; as follows:

       Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Private Corrado Piccoli 
     Purple Heart Preservation Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds the following:
       (1) The Purple Heart medal solemnly recognizes the great 
     and sometimes ultimate sacrifice of American servicemembers 
     like Private Corrado Piccoli.
       (2) The Purple Heart medal holds a place of honor as the 
     national symbol of this sacrifice and deserves special 
     protections.

     SEC. 3. PENALTY FOR SALE OF PURPLE HEARTS AWARDED TO MEMBERS 
                   OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       Section 704 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Whoever'' and 
     inserting ``Except as provided in subsection (e), whoever''; 
     and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(e) Purple Heart.--
       ``(1) Penalty.--Whoever willfully purchases, attempts to 
     purchase, solicits for purchase, mails, ships, imports, 
     exports, produces blank certificates of receipt for, 
     manufactures, sells, attempts to sell, advertises for sale, 
     trades, barters, or exchanges for anything of value any 
     Purple Heart awarded to a member of the armed forces or 
     former member of the armed forces by the Secretary of the 
     military department concerned, except when authorized under 
     regulations made pursuant to law, shall be fined under this 
     title, imprisoned not more than 6 months, or both.
       ``(2) Limitation on regulations.--Regulations described in 
     paragraph (1) may not authorize the sale of any Purple Heart 
     awarded to a member of the armed forces or former member of 
     the armed forces by the Secretary of the military department 
     concerned, unless the sale is conducted by the member or 
     former member to whom the Purple Heart was awarded.
       ``(3) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `willfully' 
     means the voluntary, intentional violation of a known legal 
     duty.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 768. Mr. DONNELLY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as 
follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. PREVENTING OUTSOURCING.

       (a) Consideration of Outsourcing.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2327 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2327a. Contracts: consideration of outsourcing of jobs

       ``(a) Disclosure of Outsourcing of Jobs.--
       ``(1) In general.--The head of an agency shall require a 
     contractor that submits a bid or proposal in response to a 
     solicitation issued by the agency to disclose in that bid or 
     proposal if the contractor, or a subsidiary of the 
     contractor, owns a facility for which there is an outsourcing 
     event during the three-year period ending on the date of the 
     submittal of the bid or proposal.
       ``(2) Outsourcing event.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
     the term `outsourcing event' means a plant closing or mass 
     layoff (as described in section 2(a) of the Worker Adjustment 
     and Retraining Notification Act (29 U.S.C. 2101(a)) in which 
     the employment loss (excluding any part-time employees) for 
     positions which will be moved to a country outside of the 
     United States exceeds 50 employees.
       ``(b) Consideration Authorized.--(1) Agency contracting 
     officers considering bids or proposals in response to a 
     solicitation issued by the agency may take into account any 
     disclosure made pursuant to subsection (a) in such bids and 
     proposals.
       ``(2) The head of an agency may establish a negative 
     preference of up to 10 percent of the cost of a contract for 
     purposes of evaluating a bid or proposal of a contractor that 
     makes a disclosure pursuant to subsection (a).
       ``(c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     agency contracting officers should, using section 2304(b)(3) 
     of this title, exclude contractors making a disclosure 
     pursuant to subsection (a) in response to solicitations 
     issued by the agency from the bidding process in connection 
     with such solicitations on the grounds that the actions 
     described in the disclosures are against the public interests 
     of the United States.
       ``(d) Annual Report.--The head of each agency shall submit 
     to Congress each year a report on the following:
       ``(1) The number of solicitations made by the agency during 
     the preceding year for which disclosures were made pursuant 
     to subsection (a) in responsive bids or proposals.
       ``(2) The number of contracts awarded by the agency during 
     the preceding year in which such disclosures were taken into 
     account in the contract award.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 137 of such title is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 2327 the 
     following new item:

``2327a. Contracts: consideration of outsourcing of jobs.''.

       (b) Exclusion of Firms From Sources.--Section 2304(b) of 
     such title is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
     (4) and (5), respectively;
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(3) The head of an agency may provide for the procurement 
     of property and services covered by this chapter using 
     competitive procedures but excluding a source making a 
     disclosure pursuant to section 2327a(a) of this title in the 
     bid or proposal in response to the solicitation issued by the 
     agency if the head of the agency determines that the actions 
     described by disclosure are against the public interests of 
     the United States and the source is to be excluded on those 
     grounds. Any such determination shall take into account the 
     sense of Congress set forth in section 2327a(c) of this 
     title.''; and
       (3) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``paragraphs (1) and (2)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1), 
     (2), and (3)''.
       (c) Regulations and Guidance.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     amend the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
     to carry out the requirements of section 2327a of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by this section.
       (2) Training and guidance.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     develop and provide clear training and guidance to 
     acquisition officials, contracting officers, and current and 
     potential contractors regarding implementation policies and 
     practices for section 2327a of title 10, United States Code, 
     as added by this section.
       (3) Definition of outsourcing.--For purposes of defining 
     outsourcing pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary 
     of Defense may utilize regulations prescribed by the 
     Secretary of Labor.
       (d) Rule of Construction.--This section, and the amendments 
     made by this section, shall be applied in a manner consistent 
     with

[[Page S4888]]

     United States obligations under international agreements.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 769. Mr. WICKER (for Mrs. Fischer) proposed an amendment to the 
bill S. 88, to ensure appropriate spectrum planning and interagency 
coordination to support the Internet of Things; as follows:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Developing Innovation and 
     Growing the Internet of Things Act'' or ``DIGIT Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
       (1) the Internet of Things refers to the growing number of 
     connected and interconnected devices;
       (2) estimates indicate that more than 50,000,000,000 
     devices will be connected to the Internet by 2020;
       (3) the Internet of Things has the potential to generate 
     trillions of dollars in new economic activity around the 
     world;
       (4) businesses across the United States can develop new 
     services and products, improve operations, simplify 
     logistics, cut costs, and pass savings on to consumers by 
     utilizing the Internet of Things and related innovations;
       (5) the United States leads the world in the development of 
     technologies that support the Internet and the United States 
     technology sector is well-positioned to lead in the 
     development of technologies for the Internet of Things;
       (6) the United States Government can implement this 
     technology to better deliver services to the public; and
       (7) the Senate unanimously passed Senate Resolution 110, 
     114th Congress, agreed to March 24, 2015, calling for a 
     national strategy for the development of the Internet of 
     Things.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     policies governing the Internet of Things should maximize the 
     potential and development of the Internet of Things to 
     benefit all stakeholders, including businesses, governments, 
     and consumers.

     SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
     Communications Commission.
       (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of Commerce.
       (3) Steering committee.--The term ``steering committee'' 
     means the steering committee established under section 
     4(e)(1).
       (4) Working group.--The term ``working group'' means the 
     working group convened under section 4(a).

     SEC. 4. FEDERAL WORKING GROUP.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary shall convene a working 
     group of Federal stakeholders for the purpose of providing 
     recommendations and a report to Congress relating to the 
     aspects of the Internet of Things described in subsection 
     (b).
       (b) Duties.--The working group shall--
       (1) identify any Federal regulations, statutes, grant 
     practices, budgetary or jurisdictional challenges, and other 
     sector-specific policies that are inhibiting, or could 
     inhibit, the development of the Internet of Things;
       (2) consider policies or programs that encourage and 
     improve coordination among Federal agencies with jurisdiction 
     over the Internet of Things;
       (3) consider any findings or recommendations made by the 
     steering committee and, where appropriate, act to implement 
     those recommendations; and
       (4) examine--
       (A) how Federal agencies can benefit from utilizing the 
     Internet of Things;
       (B) the use of Internet of Things technology by Federal 
     agencies as of the date on which the working group performs 
     the examination;
       (C) the preparedness and ability of Federal agencies to 
     adopt Internet of Things technology in the future; and
       (D) any additional security measures that Federal agencies 
     may need to take to--
       (i) safely and securely use the Internet of Things, 
     including measures that ensure the security of critical 
     infrastructure; and
       (ii) enhance the resiliency of Federal systems against 
     cyber threats to the Internet of Things.
       (c) Agency Representatives.--In convening the working group 
     under subsection (a), the Secretary shall have discretion to 
     appoint representatives and shall specifically consider 
     seeking representation from--
       (1) the Department of Commerce, including--
       (A) the National Telecommunications and Information 
     Administration;
       (B) the National Institute of Standards and Technology; and
       (C) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
       (2) the Department of Transportation;
       (3) the Department of Homeland Security;
       (4) the Office of Management and Budget;
       (5) the National Science Foundation;
       (6) the Commission;
       (7) the Federal Trade Commission;
       (8) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
       (9) the Department of Energy; and
       (10) the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
       (d) Nongovernmental Stakeholders.--The working group shall 
     consult with nongovernmental stakeholders, including--
       (1) the steering committee;
       (2) information and communications technology 
     manufacturers, suppliers, service providers, and vendors;
       (3) subject matter experts representing industrial sectors 
     other than the technology sector that can benefit from the 
     Internet of Things, including the energy, agriculture, and 
     health care sectors;
       (4) small, medium, and large businesses;
       (5) think tanks and academia;
       (6) nonprofit organizations and consumer groups;
       (7) rural stakeholders; and
       (8) other stakeholders with relevant expertise, as 
     determined by the Secretary.
       (e) Steering Committee.--
       (1) Establishment.--There is established within the 
     Department of Commerce a steering committee to advise the 
     working group.
       (2) Duties.--The steering committee shall advise the 
     working group with respect to--
       (A) the identification of any Federal regulations, 
     statutes, grant practices, programs, budgetary or 
     jurisdictional challenges, and other sector-specific policies 
     that are inhibiting, or could inhibit, the development of the 
     Internet of Things;
       (B) whether adequate spectrum is available to support the 
     growing Internet of Things and what legal or regulatory 
     barriers may exist to providing any spectrum needed in the 
     future;
       (C) policies or programs that--
       (i) promote or are related to the privacy of individuals 
     who use or are affected by the Internet of Things;
       (ii) may enhance the security of the Internet of Things, 
     including the security of critical infrastructure;
       (iii) may protect users of the Internet of Things; and
       (iv) may encourage coordination among Federal agencies with 
     jurisdiction over the Internet of Things;
       (D) the opportunities and challenges associated with the 
     use of Internet of Things technology by small businesses; and
       (E) any international proceeding, international 
     negotiation, or other international matter affecting the 
     Internet of Things to which the United States is or should be 
     a party.
       (3) Membership.--The Secretary shall appoint to the 
     steering committee members representing a wide range of 
     stakeholders outside of the Federal Government with expertise 
     relating to the Internet of Things, including--
       (A) information and communications technology 
     manufacturers, suppliers, service providers, and vendors;
       (B) subject matter experts representing industrial sectors 
     other than the technology sector that can benefit from the 
     Internet of Things, including the energy, agriculture, and 
     health care sectors;
       (C) small, medium, and large businesses;
       (D) think tanks and academia;
       (E) nonprofit organizations and consumer groups;
       (F) rural stakeholders; and
       (G) other stakeholders with relevant expertise, as 
     determined by the Secretary.
       (4) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the steering committee shall submit to 
     the working group a report that includes any findings or 
     recommendations of the steering committee.
       (5) Independent advice.--
       (A) In general.--The steering committee shall set the 
     agenda of the steering committee in carrying out the duties 
     of the steering committee under paragraph (2).
       (B) Suggestions.--The working group may suggest topics or 
     items for the steering committee to study, and the steering 
     committee shall take those suggestions into consideration in 
     carrying out the duties of the steering committee.
       (C) Report.--The steering committee shall ensure that the 
     report submitted under paragraph (4) is the result of the 
     independent judgment of the steering committee.
       (6) Termination.--The steering committee shall terminate on 
     the date on which the working group submits the report under 
     subsection (f) unless, on or before that date, the Secretary 
     files a new charter for the steering committee under section 
     9(c) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
       (f) Report to Congress.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the working group shall submit to 
     Congress a report that includes--
       (A) the findings and recommendations of the working group 
     with respect to the duties of the working group under 
     subsection (b);
       (B) the report submitted by the steering committee under 
     subsection (e)(4), as the report was received by the working 
     group;
       (C) recommendations for action or reasons for inaction, as 
     applicable, with respect to each recommendation made by the 
     steering committee in the report submitted under subsection 
     (e)(4); and
       (D) an accounting of any progress made by Federal agencies 
     to implement recommendations made by the working group or the 
     steering committee.
       (2) Copy of report.--The working group shall submit a copy 
     of the report described in paragraph (1) to--
       (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
     Senate;
       (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (C) any other committee of Congress, upon request to the 
     working group.

[[Page S4889]]

  


     SEC. 5. ASSESSING SPECTRUM NEEDS.

       (a) In General.--The Commission, in consultation with the 
     National Telecommunications and Information Administration, 
     shall issue a notice of inquiry seeking public comment on the 
     current, as of the date of enactment of this Act, and future 
     spectrum needs of the Internet of Things.
       (b) Requirements.--In issuing the notice of inquiry under 
     subsection (a), the Commission shall seek comments that 
     consider and evaluate--
       (1) whether adequate spectrum is available to support the 
     growing Internet of Things;
       (2) what regulatory barriers may exist to providing any 
     needed spectrum for the Internet of Things; and
       (3) what the role of licensed and unlicensed spectrum is 
     and will be in the growth of the Internet of Things.
       (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House 
     of Representatives a report summarizing the comments 
     submitted in response to the notice of inquiry issued under 
     subsection (a).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 770. Mr. MURPHY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the following:

     SEC. ___. SUNSET OF AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY FORCE.

       (a) Sunset.--Section 2 of the Authorization for Use of 
     Military Force (Public Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(c) Sunset.--The authority to use force in this 
     resolution shall expire on the date that is three years after 
     the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, unless reauthorized 
     or extended by an Act of Congress.''.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the need will remain to defend against specific 
     networks of violent extremists, including al Qaeda and its 
     affiliates, that threaten the United States; and
       (2) the President must work with Congress to secure 
     whatever authorities may be required to meet that threat in a 
     manner that complies with the Constitution and the War Powers 
     Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 771. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for Mr. Carper) proposed an amendment to the 
bill S. 1099, to provide for the identification and prevention of 
improper payments and the identification of strategic sourcing 
opportunities by reviewing and analyzing the use of Federal agency 
charge cards; as follows:

       On page 5, beginning on line 6, strike ``General Services 
     Administration Office of Charge Card Management'' and insert 
     ``the General Services Administration''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 772. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for Mr. Young) proposed an amendment to the 
bill S. 1182, to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint 
commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of The 
American Legion; as follows:

       In section 7(d), in the subsection heading, strike ``GAO 
     Audit'' and insert ``Audit''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 773. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for Mr. Sullivan) proposed an amendment to the 
bill S. 756, to reauthorize and amend the Marine Debris Act to promote 
international action to reduce marine debris, and for other purposes; 
as follows:

       Beginning on page 3, strike line 3 and all that follows 
     through page 3, line 23, and insert the following:
       ``(2) Assistance.--If the Administrator makes a 
     determination under paragraph (1) that there is a severe 
     marine debris event, the Administrator is authorized to make 
     sums available to be used by the affected State or by the 
     Administrator in cooperation with the affected State--
       ``(A) to assist in the cleanup and response required by the 
     severe marine debris event; or
       ``(B) to conduct such other activity as the Administrator 
     determines is appropriate in response to the severe marine 
     debris event.''.
       On page 4, beginning on line 24, strike ``Federal funding 
     for research and development'' and insert ``research and 
     development, including through the establishment of a prize 
     competition,''.

                          ____________________



