

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8251]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO ALBERT RATNER

  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I wish to recognize the 90th birthday of 
Albert Ratner on December 26, 2017. Albert has lived a life of faith 
and service. Whether as a loving father, life-long philanthropist, or a 
successful businessman at Forest City Realty Trust, Albert has worked 
tirelessly for his community.
  Over his career, Albert has shown a particular passion for giving 
back to the Jewish community, improving our schools, and supporting 
innovation at the community level.
  In Denver, Albert led the charge to transform the Stapleton Airport 
into a thriving community center with high-quality, affordable housing, 
green spaces, and new schools. Among those schools is Denver's Science 
and Technology High School, which has attracted many brilliant students 
over the last 13 years. Albert's work to revitalize downtown areas 
across the country have earned him numerous awards, including the 
National Building Museum Honor Award, the Urban Land Institute's J. C. 
Nichols Prize for Visionaries in Urban Development, and the Michigan 
State University's Distinguished Alumni Award.
  Albert is the proud father of Deborah and Brian, who follow his 
lifelong values of service, community, and faith. He is also a loving 
husband to Audrey, his wife of 36 years, and before that, to his first 
wife, Faye, who tragically died in an automobile accident. On Albert's 
90th birthday, we celebrate his accomplished life, one defined by good 
humor, compassion, family, and faith.
  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I want to recognize the upcoming 90th 
birthday of Albert Ratner on December 26. Albert has led a 
distinguished life that has touched and benefited countless people in 
Ohio and around the world.
  I consider Albert a dear friend and a wise adviser, and Jane and I 
have enjoyed the friendship of him and his wife, Audrey, over the 
years. Whether it is a discussion over dinner or catching up during a 
Cavs game, we treasure our time with Albert and Audrey.
  Albert grew up in Cleveland during the Great Depression, where his 
family, who were immigrants from Poland, turned a small company into a 
thriving business through hard work and dedication. Well known for his 
civic involvement in Cleveland and as a leader in the Jewish community, 
Albert is a life trustee of the Cleveland Jewish Community Federation 
and a member of the International Council of the American Jewish Joint 
Distribution Committee. The Ratner family was instrumental in 
establishing the Cleveland Jewish Archives at the Western Reserve 
Historical Society in 1976.
  Albert is currently engaged in a series of poverty-related 
initiatives in his hometown of Cleveland and throughout the State in 
partnership with the Governor and local leaders. Beyond his influence 
in Ohio, he has helped those in need across the country by supporting 
innovative educational initiatives that have given promising youth 
access to an education that has opened doors for each of them.
  Albert is a loving husband and father. He has been married to Audrey 
for 36 years. His first wife, Faye, who he met in high school, was 
tragically killed in an automobile accident, after which he continued 
raising his daughter Deborah and son Brian to follow in his footsteps 
as fully engaged members of their community. He has lived a life of 
kindness, cheerfulness, and compassion for all of our fellow citizens.
  Albert's life has been guided by a love for his Jewish traditions. He 
often talks about the Jewish tradition of tikkun olam, to repair the 
world, and how even when the obligation seems too great, we must not 
desist from it. That is how he lives. He is truly a great American.
  Happy birthday to Albert Ratner.

                          ____________________



