

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7498-S7499]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 SOUTHEAST ALASKA REGIONAL HEALTH CONSORTIUM LAND TRANSFER ACT OF 2017

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 247, S. 825.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the bill by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 825) to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     property to the Southeast Alaska Regional Health Consortium 
     located in Sitka, Alaska, and for other purposes.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill, 
which had been reported from the Committee on Indian Affairs, with an 
amendment to strike all after the enacting clause and insert in lieu 
thereof the following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Southeast Alaska Regional 
     Health Consortium Land Transfer Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY.

       (a) In General.--As soon as practicable, but not later than 
     2 years, after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this 
     Act as the ``Secretary'') shall convey to the Southeast 
     Alaska Regional Health Consortium located in Sitka, Alaska 
     (referred to in this Act as the ``Consortium''), all right, 
     title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
     property described in section 3 for use in connection with 
     health and social services programs.
       (b) Effect on Any Quitclaim Deed.--The conveyance by the 
     Secretary of title by warranty deeds under this section 
     shall, on the effective date of the conveyance, supersede and 
     render of no future effect any quitclaim deed to the property 
     described in section 3 executed by the Secretary and the 
     Consortium.
       (c) Conditions.--The conveyance of the property under this 
     Act--
       (1) shall be made by warranty deed; and
       (2) shall not--
       (A) require any consideration from the Consortium for the 
     property;
       (B) impose any obligation, term, or condition on the 
     Consortium; or
       (C) allow for any reversionary interest of the United 
     States in the property.

     SEC. 3. PROPERTY DESCRIBED.

       The property, including all land and appurtenances, 
     described in this section is the property included in U.S. 
     Survey 1496, Lots 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11A, 11A Parcel A, and 11B, 
     partially surveyed Township 55 South, Range 63 East of the 
     Copper River Meridian, containing 19.07 acres, in Sitka, 
     Alaska.

     SEC. 4. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY.

       (a) Liability.--
       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, the Consortium shall not be liable for any soil, surface 
     water, groundwater, or other contamination resulting from the 
     disposal, release, or presence of any environmental 
     contamination on any portion of the property described in 
     section 3 on or before the date on which the property is 
     conveyed to the Consortium, except that the Secretary shall 
     not be liable for any contamination that occurred after the 
     date on which the Consortium controlled, occupied, and used 
     such property.
       (2) Environmental contamination.--An environmental 
     contamination described in paragraph (1) includes any oil or 
     petroleum products, hazardous substances, hazardous 
     materials, hazardous waste, pollutants, toxic substances, 
     solid waste, or any other environmental contamination or 
     hazard as defined in any Federal or State of Alaska law.
       (b) Easement.--The Secretary shall be accorded any easement 
     or access to the property conveyed under this Act as may be 
     reasonably necessary to satisfy any retained obligation or 
     liability of the Secretary.
       (c) Notice of Hazardous Substance Activity and Warranty.--
     In carrying out this Act, the Secretary shall comply with 
     subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 120(h)(3) of the 
     Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
     Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)(3)).
  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the committee-reported 
substitute amendment be agreed to; that the bill, as amended, be 
considered read a third time and passed; and that the motion to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The committee-reported amendment in the nature of a substitute was 
agreed to.
  The bill (S. 825), as amended, was ordered to be engrossed for a 
third reading, was read the third time, and passed.

[[Page S7499]]

  

                          ____________________



