

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 152 (Thursday, September 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 152 (Thursday, September 21, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7434]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. FASO:
       H.R. 3808. A bill to preclude absolute liability in any 
     action against a property owner or contractor for projects 
     receiving Federal financial assistance for infrastructure and 
     transportation development, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
       H.R. 3809. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     improve conservation compliance, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and Mr. Francis Rooney of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 3810. A bill to establish the Commission to Verify 
     Iranian Nuclear Compliance; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 3811. A bill to establish the National Center for the 
     Right to Counsel; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Gene Green of Texas, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Gonzalez of 
             Texas, Mr. Vela, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. 
             Castro of Texas, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, 
             Mr. Veasey, Mrs. Demings, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Soto, Mr. Crist, 
             Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Deutch, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Neal, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Lee, and Ms. 
             DelBene):
       H.R. 3812. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the determination of earned income for 
     purposes of the earned income credit and the child tax credit 
     for individuals in the Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma 
     disaster areas; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 3813. A bill to designate a human trafficking 
     prevention coordinator and to expand the scope of activities 
     authorized under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
     Administration's outreach and education program to include 
     human trafficking prevention activities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Turner, and Ms. Esty of Connecticut):
       H.R. 3814. A bill to disqualify from operating a commercial 
     motor vehicle for life an individual who uses a commercial 
     motor vehicle in committing a felony involving human 
     trafficking; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Mr. Deutch, and 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 3815. A bill to amend of the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to make grants 
     to carry out gleaning projects; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 3816. A bill to require notification following a 
     breach of security of a system containing personal 
     information, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mr. Blum, 
             Mr. Duffy, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Pocan, and Mr. 
             Gallagher):
       H.R. 3817. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to improve the accuracy of geographic adjustment 
     factors under the Medicare program and to permanently extend 
     certain adjustments to such factors for certain localities, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Marino, and Mr. 
             Johnson of Ohio):
       H. Res. 530. A resolution supporting initiatives by 
     President Trump to create a new age of American prosperity by 
     reducing the crushing tax burden on American families and 
     American companies; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mrs. Black, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Marino, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. McSally, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Clay, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Fudge, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
             Mr. Rush, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Keating, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Engel, Mr. Evans, Mr. Crist, Ms. Adams, 
             and Mr. Khanna):
       H. Res. 531. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of September 2017 as ``National Kinship Care 
     Month''; to the Committee on Ways and Means.

                          ____________________



