

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7891]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GRASSLEY:
       S. 2195. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     provide an Inspector General for the judicial branch, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MURPHY:
       S. 2196. A bill to amend chapter 83 of title 41, United 
     States Code (popularly referred to as the Buy American Act) 
     and certain other laws with respect to certain waivers under 
     those laws, to provide greater transparency regarding 
     exceptions to domestic sourcing requirements, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. BALDWIN:
       S. 2197. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to reform the credit for increasing research activities, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Menendez, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 2198. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to reinstate the financing for the Hazardous Substance 
     Superfund, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 2199. A bill to authorize appropriations for border 
     infrastructure construction, to provide conditional resident 
     status to certain aliens, and to amend the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act to include grounds of inadmissibility and 
     deportability for alien members of criminal gangs and 
     cartels, and for other purposes; read the first time.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 2200. A bill to reauthorize the National Integrated 
     Drought Information System, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. COONS:
       S. 2201. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to improve college access and college completion for all 
     students; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mrs. Fischer, 
             Mr. Booker, and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 2202. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     authorize appropriations for the National Transportation 
     Safety Board, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Graham, Ms. 
             Harris, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Heitkamp, and 
             Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 2203. A bill to amend title 9 of the United States Code 
     with respect to arbitration; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



