

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8525]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   PENN STATE TO CELEBRATE MILITARY APPRECIATION WEEK AND HOMECOMING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, this week, Penn State 
University recognizes Military Appreciation Week, which is in 
conjunction with its homecoming celebration.
  The Penn State Homecoming and Military Appreciation game will take 
place, and appropriately so, on Veterans Day, Saturday, November 11, 
against the Rutgers Scarlet Knights in Beaver Stadium. This game will 
celebrate both Penn State and its commitment to alumni and others in 
the community who have served in our military.
  I am so pleased to see the Penn State community honoring 
servicemembers, veterans, and their families, expressing appreciation 
to them and recognizing the sacrifices of Gold Star families.
  Faculty, staff, and students from around the university and within 
the community are engaging in planning and recognizing Active-Duty and 
veteran military personnel and their families.
  Mr. Speaker, the State College Borough and Centre County have also 
joined with University Park to present numerous events for veterans and 
their families during Military Appreciation Month. Events began on 
October 2 with the Penn State Veterans Career Fair and will continue 
through the end of this week.
  The Vietnam Veterans Traveling Memorial Wall came to University Park 
during the month's events. I had the opportunity to participate in both 
the opening and closing ceremonies for the wall, and it was a moving 
tribute to all those who served during the Vietnam war.
  The theme for the Centre County event was ``Welcome Home.'' We all 
know that, in many instances, our Vietnam veterans did not receive a 
warm welcome home when they actually returned home from war. This is a 
scar on our history and one that we are working to heal. The Traveling 
Wall served as a reminder of the efforts to promote liberty and freedom 
that our Vietnam veterans put forth.
  Military Appreciation events continue this week in conjunction with 
homecoming. There will be a Veterans Day ceremony in front of Old Main 
on Friday, a tailgate before the Military Appreciation football game 
Saturday, and a Freedom 5K for post-traumatic stress disorder, to 
benefit those suffering with it, on Sunday.
  The 6-week regional celebration culminates Sunday afternoon with 
Military Appreciation basketball games for both the Penn State men's 
and women's teams at Bryce Jordan Center.
  Mr. Speaker, caring for our veterans and military has been one of my 
top priorities since beginning my congressional service. It has a 
special place in my heart, not just because of all our veterans have 
done, but because I have seen firsthand the magnitude of their 
sacrifice.
  As a military father, I know that wearing the uniform is about 
service and sacrifice.
  I thank all those who serve and have served this great Nation, and I 
look forward to honoring their service this week at Penn State and in 
every corner of our country.
  May God bless our veterans, the United States of America, and the 
Nittany Lions for a homecoming win.

                          ____________________



