

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6970-S6971]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 66, a bill to amend 
title 10, United States Code, to permit certain retired members of the 
uniformed services who have a service-connected disability to receive 
both disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for their disability and either retired pay by reason of their years of 
military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to

[[Page S6971]]

provide for coverage under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, her name was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 382, a bill to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
to develop a voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence 
among firefighters.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to amend titles 
XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States to provide 
coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions through 
enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 527

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 527, a bill to improve access to 
emergency medical services, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to improve the 
ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, 
other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1112, a bill to support 
States in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers during 
pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to eliminate 
disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related and 
pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve health 
care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1191

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1191, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to refine how Medicare pays for 
orthotics and prosthetics and to improve beneficiary experience and 
outcomes with orthotic and prosthetic care, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1333

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1333, a bill to provide 
for rental assistance for homeless or at-risk Indian veterans.


                                S. 1400

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1400, a bill to amend 
title 18, United States Code, to enhance protections of Native American 
tangible cultural heritage, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1480

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1480, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to include biomass heating appliances for 
tax credits available for energy-efficient building property and energy 
property.


                                S. 1498

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1498, a bill to establish in 
the Smithsonian Institution a comprehensive American women's history 
museum, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1700

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1700, a bill to amend the 
Energy Policy and Conservation Act to establish a WaterSense program 
within the Environmental Protection Agency, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1720

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1720, a bill to 
amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to establish a skills-based 
immigration points system, to focus family-sponsored immigration on 
spouses and minor children, to eliminate the Diversity Visa Program, to 
set a limit on the number of refugees admitted annually to the United 
States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1838

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1838, a bill to repeal the authority under the 
National Labor Relations Act for States to enact laws prohibiting 
agreements requiring membership in a labor organization as a condition 
of employment, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1879

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from 
Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as cosponsors of S. 1879, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the coverage of 
marriage and family therapist services and mental health counselor 
services under part B of the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1967

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1967, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide additional 
exemptions to the individual mandate, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2016

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2016, a bill to prevent an 
unconstitutional strike against North Korea.


                              S. RES. 310

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 310, a resolution 
recognizing the importance of a continued commitment to ending 
pediatric AIDS worldwide.

                          ____________________



