

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8526]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         AN OUTSTANDING REFUGEE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate an outstanding 
educator in my district.
  Ayan Omar of St. Cloud recently was honored as one of seven 
recipients of the Outstanding Refugee award from the Minnesota 
Department of Human Services. This award honors refugees or their 
children who are making innovative contributions to their community, 
and Ayan is well deserving of this commendation. She earned this honor 
as the result of her civic leadership efforts as a language arts 
teacher at St. Cloud Technical High School.
  But for Ayan, her work extends beyond the classroom and into the 
community. She often speaks on panels or at events, and she was 
recently a featured speaker at St. Cloud's TEDx event, where she spoke 
about interpersonal communication.
  We are lucky to have educators like Ayan who take their work into the 
communities they serve. Thank you, Ayan, for your commitment to 
education, and congratulations on this well-deserved award.


                  A Commitment to Safety and Customers

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an outstanding 
constituent from my district, Andy Thiele of Monticello.
  Andy recently competed in the 2017 International Foodservice 
Distributors Association Truck Driving Championship in Orlando, 
Florida. This competition highlights the best drivers in the food 
industry. This competition honors drivers from all over the country and 
their commitment to safety and excellent customer service.
  Andy's devotion to safety is clear, as he has been accident free for 
11 years and counting.
  IFDA members, like the Twin Cities division of Reinhart Foodservice 
where Andy is employed, supply food to professional kitchens, 
hospitals, care facilities, colleges, and hotels.
  We need truck drivers like Andy who deliver our Nation's food 
efficiently and safely across the country every day. I commend Andy and 
all those who competed in the competition this year for their 
dedication to professionalism and safety. I am glad my district, the 
State of Minnesota, and our Nation have dedicated truck drivers like 
Andy Thiele.


                        Lifesavers in St. Cloud

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize five outstanding 
constituents in my district for an act of heroism that saved a fellow 
Minnesotan.
  Police officer Curt Grosz, firefighters Adam Imholte and Dennis Ertl, 
and high school students Abigail Trelfa and Madison DeMarais worked 
hand in hand to save the life of Daniel Fleigle.
  Daniel was on a bridge in Sartell, Minnesota, this summer when he 
accidentally touched a live wire and was electrocuted, sending him to 
the ground. Thankfully, his friends Abigail and Madison reacted 
immediately, calling 911 and beginning CPR. First responders Curt, 
Adam, and Dennis all responded to this scene shortly thereafter, and 
together they saved Daniel's life.
  The quick response of these heroes ensured Daniel's full recovery. 
Without them, Daniel would likely not be with us today. I am lucky to 
represent such selfless and heroic people who run to their fellow 
citizens in times of need.
  Thank you Curt, Adam, Dennis, Abigail, and Madison for saving 
Daniel's life and showing our community what a true hero looks like.


                   Elk River's Outstanding Volunteers

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the incredible members 
of the Elk River Chamber of Commerce. Communities in my district like 
Elk River are successful because the members support and encourage one 
another.

  Recently, the Elk River Chamber of Commerce, which represents 360 
local businesses, honored some of its most active members as this 
year's outstanding volunteers. One was Pam Artmann of Edina Realty Elk 
River. In just 2 years with the chamber, she was named Ambassador of 
the Year for bringing positivity to her role.
  The chamber also honored Tamara Ackerman of Avalon Salon for her work 
chairing and growing the Shiver Elk River 5K/10K Run. For this, she 
received the PACEsetter award, which highlights her dedication to 
service on the chamber board.
  Finally, the chamber recognized Mark and Deb Urista of Edina Realty 
Elk River with the Keystone award, which recognizes their longstanding 
commitment and work with and on behalf of the chamber.
  I am honored to represent servant leaders and entrepreneurs like 
Mark, Deb, Pam, and Tamara.
  Congratulations to all of you on your well-deserved awards.

                          ____________________



