

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7332-S7333]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING FATHER SOLANUS CASEY

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize cofounder 
of the Capuchin Soup Kitchen and member of the Capuchin Franciscan 
Order of Saint Joseph, Father Solanus Casey. Father Casey is the third 
American-born to be honored with the distinction of Blessed from the 
Roman Catholic Church, the final step before sainthood.
  Born as Bernard Francis Casey on November 25, 1870, Father Casey was 
raised on a farm in Oak Grove, WI, along the banks of the Mississippi 
River, with his parents and 15 siblings. At an early age, Father Casey 
learned diligence, obedience, and piety from his parents, who honored 
their Irish Catholic faith above all else. At the age of 12, Father 
Casey attended Saint Patrick Church in Hudson, WI, and felt the call to 
the priesthood during the lessons for his first Holy Communion.
  After working as a logger, prison guard, and streetcar operator, 
Father

[[Page S7333]]

Casey decided to pursue a lifetime of service and entered Saint Francis 
Seminary in Milwaukee, WI. The next 8 years were a difficult journey 
toward priesthood for Father Casey as he struggled academically. The 
seminary officials believed that Father Casey did not have the proper 
skills to be a priest and suggested he join a religious order: 
Franciscans, Dominicans, or Jesuits. After praying before a statue of 
the Blessed Virgin Mary, Father Casey heard the Blessed Mother tell him 
to ``Go to Detroit,'' home to the Capuchins. In 1897, Father Casey was 
invested as Capuchin Novice Francis Solanus, named after Saint Francis 
Solanus of the 17th century. The name seemed fitting as both Father 
Casey and Saint Francis Solanus loved to play the violin.
  After being ordained as a simplex priest in 1904, Father Casey began 
his ministry in the State of New York, serving three different 
parishes: Sacred Heart Parish, Our Lady of Sorrow Parish, and Our Lady 
of Angels Parish. While in New York, Father Casey held numerous 
positions within the church, including porter. He embraced the task of 
doorkeeper, welcoming and praying with all visitors and offering simple 
and candid comfort. Father Casey held weekly services for the sick and 
quickly became known for his compassion towards all who suffered. He 
embodied the ultimate spirit of public service by giving 100 percent of 
himself to the poor, the hungry, and the unloved.
  In 1924, Father Casey was appointed to the Saint Bonaventure 
Monastery in the city of Detroit as a porter, providing soup for the 
hungry, kind words for the troubled, and a healing touch for the ill. 
For over 20 years, he brought comfort and hope to people of all 
religions, earning the recognition as ``The Doorkeeper.'' During the 
Great Depression, Father Casey helped establish the Capuchin Soup 
Kitchen in the city of Detroit, which prepared large sandwiches and 
warm cups of coffee for the hungry and unemployed. Today the Capuchin 
Soup Kitchen is recognized as one of the most well-known food pantries 
in the region, serving over 60,000 meals and distributing roughly 
250,000 pounds of food a month. During World War II, Father Casey also 
provided advice and prayers for many families throughout southeast 
Michigan whose sons and daughters were honorably serving our Nation. 
Although Father Casey was ordained as a simplex priest, people across 
the State of Michigan waited in lines in order to speak with him and 
receive his blessings. Father Casey never fully retired, but rather 
spent the last decade of his life serving the sick and troubled at 
Saint Felix Friary in Huntington, IN, until his death in 1957.
  In 1995, Father Casey received the title of Venerable from the Roman 
Catholic Church in recognition of his virtuous life. Father Casey 
exemplified the theological virtues of the Roman Catholic Church: 
charity, faith, and hope. On May 4, 2017, Pope Francis announced that 
Father Casey would be elevated to the status of Blessed, recognizing 
his widespread reputation of holiness and intercessory prayer. 
According to the Roman Catholic Church, a Panamanian woman on a 
pilgrimage was healed from a genetic skin condition almost instantly, 
with no scientific explanation, after visiting the tomb of Father 
Solanus Casey at Saint Bonaventure Monastery in the city of Detroit in 
2012. In order to receive the title of Blessed, the Roman Catholic 
Church investigates reports of exceptional favors received, acclaimed 
as miraculous or unexplainable. The beatification of Father Casey is 
the greatest testament to his commitment to those in need and a 
significant step toward sainthood.
  I cannot express enough the impact Father Solanus Casey had on 
communities across the State of Michigan. The road to sainthood is 
paved with love and service for Father Casey. He was a beloved Capuchin 
friar in the city of Detroit credited with miraculous cures and valued 
for his compassionate counsel. Throughout his life of tireless service, 
he encouraged countless individuals in the metropolitan Detroit region 
to address issues of poverty and hunger. I am confident his legacy will 
continue to inspire others to open the door and be a porter to anyone 
who knocks.

                          ____________________



