

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9756-H9757]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. Katko, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, 
             Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Garrett, and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 4581. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to develop best practices for utilizing advanced 
     passenger information and passenger name record data for 
     counterterrorism screening and vetting operations, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Foster, and Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois):
       H.R. 4582. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to preserve access to rehabilitation innovation 
     centers under the Medicare program; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H.R. 4583. A bill to suspend all diplomatic presence in 
     Cuba, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself, Mr. Messer, Mr. Rokita, 
             Mr. Ferguson, and Mr. Brat):
       H.R. 4584. A bill to provide loan forgiveness to borrowers 
     of Federal student loans who agree to delay eligibility to 
     collect social security benefits, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 4585. A bill to prohibit the Federal Communications 
     Commission from relying on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
     in the matter of restoring internet freedom to adopt, amend, 
     revoke, or otherwise modify any rule of the Commission; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself and Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas):
       H.R. 4586. A bill to provide for the National Academies to 
     study and report on a research agenda to advance the 
     understanding of albedo modification strategies, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
       H.R. 4587. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to 
     award grants to fund research on orthotics and prosthetics; 
     to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. COOK (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, and Mr. Thompson of California):
       H.R. 4588. A bill to establish the Abraham Lincoln Medal 
     for Public Sacrifice, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Gallego, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, and Mr. Sires):
       H.R. 4589. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to expand the military student 
     identifier program to cover students with a parent who serves 
     in the reserve component of the Armed Forces; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. 
             Cole, and Mr. Wenstrup):
       H.R. 4590. A bill to provide an exception to certain 
     mandatory minimum sentence requirements for a person employed 
     outside the United States by a Federal agency, who uses, 
     carries, or possesses the firearm during and in relation to a 
     crime of violence committed while on-duty with a firearm 
     required to be carried while on-duty; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr. Suozzi, Mrs. Wagner, 
             Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Zeldin, Mr. Olson, Mr. Hunter, Mr. King of New York, 
             Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Russell, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Stefanik, and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 4591. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to 
     Iranian persons that threaten the peace or stability of Iraq 
     or the Government of Iraq; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. LOWEY:
       H.R. 4592. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to eliminate the two-year waiting period for divorced 
     spouse's benefits following the divorce; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. LOWEY:
       H.R. 4593. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for full benefits for disabled widows and 
     widowers without regard to age; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mrs. LOWEY:
       H.R. 4594. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for increases in widow's and widower's 
     insurance benefits by reason of delayed retirement; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. LOWEY:
       H.R. 4595. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to repeal the 7-year restriction on eligibility for 
     widow's and widower's insurance benefits based on disability; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself and Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico):
       H.R. 4596. A bill to make funds available to the Department 
     of Energy National Laboratories for the Federal share of 
     cooperative research and development agreements that support 
     maturing Laboratory technology and transferring it to the 
     private sector, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR (for himself, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Foster, and Mr. Carson of Indiana):
       H.R. 4597. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to allow for the deferment of certain student loans during a 
     period in which a borrower is enrolled in a drug treatment 
     program; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Soto, and 
             Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico):
       H.R. 4598. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     require public communications about disaster assistance 
     resources to be made in multiple languages; to the Committee 
     on Small Business.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 4599. A bill to redesignate Rock Creek Park in the 
     District of Columbia as Rock Creek National Park; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             King of New York, Mr. Sires, Mr. Engel, Mr. Norcross, 
             Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Pascrell, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. 
             Nadler, Ms. Clarke of New York, and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 4600. A bill to waive and repay certain debts relating 
     to assistance provided to individuals and households; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 4601. A bill to prioritize the fight against human 
     trafficking in the United States; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Education and 
     the Workforce, and Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIS:
       H.R. 4602. A bill to authorize the full funding of part B 
     of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act by making 
     certain spending cuts to the Department of Defense; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each

[[Page H9757]]

     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
             Chabot, Mr. McCaul, and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 4603. A bill to provide for the continuation in effect 
     of sanctions with respect to Yemen, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Ms. Blunt Rochester):
       H.R. 4604. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 to provide a fiduciary safe harbor for 
     the selection of a lifetime income provider, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana:
       H. Res. 648. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of August 3, 2018, as ``National Ernie Pyle 
     Day''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself and Mr. Evans):
       H. Res. 649. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives with respect to Marcus Garvey; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DIAZ-BALART (for himself, Mr. Holding, and Mr. 
             Kilmer):
       H. Res. 650. A resolution recognizing the results of the 
     free and fair elections for the new Members of the 
     Legislative Assembly of the Falkland Islands held on November 
     9, 2017; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Hultgren, and Ms. Bass):
       H. Res. 651. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that Burundi is at risk of mass 
     atrocities, and that the Government of Burundi should comply 
     with constitutional limits on presidential terms and re-
     engage in regionally-brokered peace talks; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Clay, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Tonko, and Ms. Norton):
       H. Res. 652. A resolution supporting the practice of 
     community-oriented policing and encouraging diversity hiring 
     and retention in law enforcement; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Gomez, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Foster, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Lee, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Evans, 
             Mr. Correa, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Crowley, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Soto, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Levin, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mrs. Torres, Mr. 
             Pallone, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Hultgren, 
             Mrs. Demings, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Carson 
             of Indiana, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Titus, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Garrett, Mr. King of New York, Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. 
             Dingell, and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H. Res. 653. A resolution recognizing the 69th anniversary 
     of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 
     celebration of ``Human Rights Day''; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mr. Lance):
       H. Res. 654. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of January 23, 2018, as ``National Handwriting 
     Day'' and recognizing the importance of handwriting for 
     cognitive, artistic, and educational benefit; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



