

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8269-H8270]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Welch, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Norton, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Cohen, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Khanna, Mr. O'Rourke, and Ms. Shea-
             Porter):
       H.R. 4138. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for the negotiation of lower covered 
     part D drug prices on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries and 
     the establishment and application of a formulary by the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services under Medicare part D, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Wilson of Florida, and Ms. Lee):
       H.R. 4139. A bill to provide incentives for businesses to 
     keep jobs in America; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Education and the Workforce, 
     Armed Services, and Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Massie, Mr. Khanna, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Pocan, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Ms. Norton, Mr. Doggett, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Welch, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Pallone, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Cohen, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Moore, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Rush, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Mr. Payne, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Barragan, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Bonamici, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Huffman, 
             Ms. Velazquez, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Ms. Eshoo, and Ms. DeLauro):
       H.R. 4140. A bill to prohibit the introduction of the Armed 
     Forces into hostilities in North Korea without a declaration 
     of war or explicit statutory authorization, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself and Mr. Payne):
       H.R. 4141. A bill to amend the Military Selective Service 
     Act to ensure that the records of persons registered pursuant 
     to that Act are updated to remove persons who are deceased, 
     receiving supplemental security income benefits due to a 
     disability, or otherwise no longer eligible for induction, 
     and to permit the induction of persons who have been 
     convicted of nonviolent offenses, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Perlmutter):
       H.R. 4142. A bill to protect individuals by strengthening 
     the Nation's mental health infrastructure, improving the 
     understanding of violence, strengthening firearm prohibitions 
     and protections for at-risk individuals, and improving and 
     expanding the reporting of mental health records to the 
     National Instant Criminal Background Check System; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, and Mr. Cardenas):
       H.R. 4143. A bill to establish a demonstration program to 
     provide integrated care for Medicare beneficiaries with end-
     stage renal disease, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined

[[Page H8270]]

     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Takano, and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 4144. A bill to establish a task force on truck 
     leasing, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself, Ms. Meng, 
             Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Norton, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Takano, Mr. Schiff, and Ms. Rosen):
       H.R. 4145. A bill to increase the number of aliens who may 
     be issued visas or otherwise provided status as nonimmigrants 
     under section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act for a fiscal year, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PEARCE:
       H.R. 4146. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve service disabled veterans' insurance; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Takano, and Mr. Johnson of Georgia):
       H.R. 4147. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     provide certain port authorities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Crist, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. King of New York, 
             and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 4148. A bill to provide disaster relief to small 
     businesses, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small 
     Business, and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP:
       H.R. 4149. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make certain improvements to the use of educational 
     assistance provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
     flight training programs; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, and Mr. Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 4150. A bill to support innovation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Education and the 
     Workforce, Energy and Commerce, and Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself and Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut):
       H.R. 4151. A bill to promote the use of smart technologies 
     and systems in communities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Capuano, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Takano, and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 4152. A bill to amend title VII of the Civil Rights 
     Act of 1964 and other statutes to clarify appropriate 
     liability standards for Federal antidiscrimination claims; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition 
     to the Committees on House Administration, the Judiciary, and 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER:
       H.R. 4153. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     improve safety and security for service weapons used by 
     Federal law enforcement officers, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. DONOVAN:
       H.R. 4154. A bill to delay any increase in flood insurance 
     premium rates under the National Flood Insurance Program on 
     properties located in flood hazard areas during any re-
     mapping of such areas by the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Ms. Bass, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Clay, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, 
             Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mrs. Demings, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Mr. Evans, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Ms. Clarke of New 
             York):
       H.R. 4155. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to require employing offices under such Act to 
     enroll the employees of such offices every two years in the 
     program carried out by the Office of Compliance to train 
     employees in the protections against sexual harassment 
     provided under the Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, and Mrs. Napolitano):
       H.R. 4156. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to provide that over-the-road bus drivers are covered 
     under the maximum hours requirements; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Raskin, 
             and Mr. Evans):
       H.R. 4157. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     require that Bureau of Prisons help Federal prisoners who are 
     being released to obtain appropriate ID to facilitate their 
     reentry into society, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Sablan):
       H.R. 4158. A bill to increase the amount of accrued benefit 
     which a pension plan may distribute without consent; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California:
       H.R. 4159. A bill to limit the collection of annual 
     premiums under the FHA program for mortgage insurance for 
     single family housing, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself and Mr. 
             Heck):
       H.R. 4160. A bill to revise the FHA program for home equity 
     conversion mortgages for elderly homeowners to add safeguards 
     to prevent the displacement of homeowners, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Schrader, Mr. Walden, and Mr. DeFazio):
       H. Res. 589. A resolution honoring the Portland Thorns FC, 
     the 2017 champions of the National Women's Soccer League; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CORREA:
       H. Res. 590. A resolution calling on the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to conduct a clinical study assessing the 
     effectiveness of treating chronic pain in veterans with 
     cannabis in comparison to opioids; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H. Res. 591. A resolution denouncing the ongoing violence 
     against the Rohingya people of Burma; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H. Res. 592. A resolution condemning the violent attack at 
     Flint Bishop International Airport on a police officer and 
     offering thoughts and prayers to the victim and the victim's 
     family, and commending the efforts of law enforcement and 
     airport personnel in their response; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Evans, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Barragan, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Khanna, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Maxine Waters 
             of California, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Serrano, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Quigley, and Ms. Judy Chu of California):
       H. Res. 593. A resolution recognizing the importance of a 
     continued commitment to ending pediatric HIV/AIDS worldwide; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



