

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6223-S6225]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 220

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.

[[Page S6224]]

Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 220, a bill to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to prohibit a health care practitioner from failing 
to exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child who 
survives an abortion or attempted abortion.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage 
of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 574

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 574, a bill to restrict 
the use of funds for the long-range standoff weapon until the Secretary 
of Defense completes a Nuclear Posture Review that includes an 
assessment of the capabilities and effects of the use of the long-range 
standoff weapon, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 620

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 620, a bill to amend the 
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to support community college 
and industry partnerships, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 680

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 680, a bill to 
protect consumers from security and privacy threats to their motor 
vehicles, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 736

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 736, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for collegiate housing and 
infrastructure grants.


                                 S. 946

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 946, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire additional Veterans Justice 
Outreach Specialists to provide treatment court services to justice-
involved veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to 
enhance the ability of community financial institutions to foster 
economic growth and serve their communities, boost small businesses, 
increase individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1015

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1015, a bill to require 
the Federal Communications Commission to study the feasibility of 
designating a simple, easy-to-remember dialing code to be used for a 
national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1361, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and 
clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, intensive cardiac, and 
pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1500

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1500, a bill to amend the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act to ensure that the reciprocal deposits of 
an insured depository institution are not considered to be funds 
obtained by or through a deposit broker, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1561

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1561, a bill to repeal the Jones 
Act restrictions on coastwise trade, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), 
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz), the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) and the Senator from 
Nebraska (Mr. Sasse) were added as cosponsors of S. 1595, a bill to 
amend the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to 
impose additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1672

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1672, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide 
for an investment tax credit related to the production of electricity 
from offshore wind.


                                S. 1702

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1702, a bill to amend the Marine 
Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to reduce predation by sea lions on 
endangered Columbia River salmon and other species not listed under the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill to authorize the 
minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of the end of World 
War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1766

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz), the 
Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from California (Mrs. 
Feinstein), the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley), the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. 
Tillis) were added as cosponsors of S. 1766, a bill to reauthorize the 
SAFER Act of 2013, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1767

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1767, a bill to 
reauthorize the farm to school program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) and 
the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 1808, a bill to extend temporarily the Federal Perkins Loan program, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1816

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1816, a bill to amend 
the Fair Credit Reporting Act to enhance fraud alert procedures and 
provide free access to credit freezes, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1827, a bill to extend funding for the Children's 
Health Insurance Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1854

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1854, a bill to amend 
chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to enhance penalties for 
theft of a firearm from a Federal firearms licensee.


                                S. 1859

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1859, a bill to 
extend the moratorium on the annual fee on health insurance providers.

[[Page S6225]]

  



                                S. 1864

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1864, a bill to expand 
the use of open textbooks in order to achieve savings for students.


                                S. 1865

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1865, a bill to provide 
temporary direct hire authority for certain emergency response 
positions.


                               S. RES. 61

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 61, a resolution 
calling on the Department of Defense, other elements of the Federal 
Government, and foreign governments to intensify efforts to 
investigate, recover, and identify all missing and unaccounted-for 
personnel of the United States.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a resolution 
condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's Rohingya 
population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active role in 
ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                              S. RES. 264

  At the request of Mr. Daines, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 264, a resolution designating September 2017 as ``National Kinship 
Care Month''.

                          ____________________



