

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9375-H9376]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 4395. A bill to improve the coordination and use of 
     geospatial data; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Poliquin, Mr. Fitzpatrick, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 4396. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to reform the procedures provided under such Act 
     for the investigation and resolution of allegations that 
     employing offices of the legislative branch have violated the 
     rights and protections provided to their employees under such 
     Act, including protections against sexual harassment, to 
     require the updating of programs of sexual harassment 
     prevention and response training in employment, to institute 
     biennial employment discrimination climate surveys, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. LaMalfa, 
             Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Denham, Mr. Calvert, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Bera, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Costa, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. 
             Speier, Ms. Lee, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Eshoo, and Mr. 
             Gomez):
       H.R. 4397. A bill to provide tax relief with respect to 
     California wildfires; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN (for herself, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Evans, Mr. McGovern, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Beyer, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Gomez, Mr. Carbajal, and Mr. Kihuen):
       H.R. 4398. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to suspend immigration enforcement operations within 
     an area for which the President has declared a major disaster 
     or an emergency, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Sarbanes, and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 4399. A bill to expand the monthly payments that may 
     be eligible for public service loan forgiveness; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 4400. A bill to amend the Food, Conservation, and 
     Energy Act of 2008 to make improvements to the food safety 
     education program carried out under such Act, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.

[[Page H9376]]

  

           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
       H.R. 4401. A bill to ensure prompt access to Supplemental 
     Security Income, Social Security disability, and Medicaid 
     benefits for persons released from certain public 
     institutions; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
       H.R. 4402. A bill to amend section 479(c) of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 to clarify when the Secretary shall 
     consider an independent student without dependents to have an 
     expected family contribution equal to zero; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DENHAM (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 4403. A bill to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to 
     protect personally identifiable information, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. 
             Peterson, and Mr. Paulsen):
       H.R. 4404. A bill to amend title XXI of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for an exception to the reduction to State 
     allotments under the Children's Health Insurance Program for 
     fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Donovan, 
             Mr. Engel, Mr. Faso, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Katko, Mr. King of New York, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Reed, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Zeldin, 
             Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Stefanik, and Ms. Tenney):
       H.R. 4405. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 4558 Broadway in New York, 
     New York, as the ``Stanley Michaels Post Office Building''; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Donovan, 
             Mr. Engel, Mr. Faso, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Katko, Mr. King of New York, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Reed, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Zeldin, 
             Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Stefanik, and Ms. Tenney):
       H.R. 4406. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 99 Macombs Place in New 
     York, New York, as the ``Tuskegee Airman Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. Rush, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Roskam, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schneider, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Bost, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Shimkus, Mr. Kinzinger, Mrs. Bustos, and Mr. LaHood):
       H.R. 4407. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 3s101 Rockwell Street in 
     Warrenville, Illinois, as the ``Corporal Jeffery Allen 
     Williams Post Office Building''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Mr. Suozzi):
       H.R. 4408. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     establish additional registration requirements for 
     prescribers of opioids, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
       H.R. 4409. A bill making supplemental appropriations for 
     the Army Corps of Engineers for flood control projects and 
     storm damage reduction projects in areas affected by flooding 
     in the city of Jacksonville, Florida, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Appropriations, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 4410. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require additional reporting on crime and harm that occurs 
     during student participation in programs of study abroad, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 4411. A bill to direct the Secretary of State to make 
     available to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control 
     and Prevention copies of consular reports of death of United 
     States citizens, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. MOORE:
       H.R. 4412. A bill to amend the Military Selective Service 
     Act to provide that a registrant for selective service may 
     indicate at the time of registration a desire to be 
     classified as a conscientious objector; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. PEARCE:
       H.R. 4413. A bill to amend the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice to prevent the receipt of unpaid pay and allowances 
     by Bowe Bergdahl and other members of the Armed Forces who 
     are guilty of desertion and to reserve such unpaid pay and 
     allowances to provide additional compensation to members of 
     the Armed Forces who are killed, wounded, or injured while 
     searching for a missing member of the Armed Forces who turns 
     out to have deserted; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida (for himself, Mr. 
             Norman, and Mr. Allen):
       H.R. 4414. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require students who do not complete a program of study to 
     repay Federal Pell Grants; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. SMITH of Washington:
       H.R. 4415. A bill to establish the policy of the United 
     States regarding the no-first-use of nuclear weapons; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Yarmuth, 
             Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Fudge, and Mr. Espaillat):
       H. Res. 621. A resolution impeaching Donald J. Trump, 
     President of the United States, of high crimes and 
     misdemeanors; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Miss RICE of New York (for herself, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Norcross, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Carbajal, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Bera, Ms. 
             Adams, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Takano, and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H. Res. 622. A resolution supporting the designation of the 
     week beginning November 13, 2017, as ``National 
     Apprenticeship Week''; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
       H. Res. 623. A resolution recognizing the importance of 
     providing services to children of incarcerated parents; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Soto, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Sires, Mr. Lowenthal, and Mr. Rodney 
             Davis of Illinois):
       H. Res. 624. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of room G2-24 of the Rayburn House Office 
     Building as the ``Stephen D. Vermillion, III, Room''; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.

                          ____________________



