

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6827-S6836]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 F_____
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the previous order, the 
Senate will proceed to executive session and resume consideration of 
the Palk nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The bill clerk read the nomination of Scott L. Palk, of Oklahoma, to 
be United States District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from West Virginia.


                               Tax Reform

  Ms. CAPITO. Mr. President, I rise to again highlight the importance 
of enacting tax reform. I listened to the Democratic leader's speech. I 
have heard that speech a thousand times--a thousand times how only 
wealthy Americans are going to benefit from anything the Republicans 
can come up with. Well, do you know what? Americans are smarter than 
that. Americans are smarter than that.
  I represent a State, West Virginians who have struggling economic 
situations. If I were to go out on the street in West Virginia, and as 
I talked to individuals there, and asked them: Would you like more of 
your hard-earned money at the end of the day and have a tax cut and tax 
relief, I can guarantee you 100 percent would say: Heck, yeah. I can 
spend my money better at home with my priorities than what you are 
doing in Washington, DC. So let's not let that argument rule the day. 
As I said, we are smarter than that.
  Let's talk about what this bill does. This is now my fourth, 
actually, in a series of something I believe in, which is tax reform 
for everybody in this country.
  My first speech described the benefits we will have in economic 
growth. Something that was not mentioned by the previous speaker is how 
we have been stagnated for so long. The economic growth will rise all 
boats. Every middle-class worker will benefit from this, and every 
small business will benefit from this. My second speech was about small 
businesses. Ninety-five percent of my State is small business. Last 
week, I highlighted the importance of passing the budget resolution to 
allow Congress to move forward, and we did that.
  Today, I want to talk about the importance of tax reform for middle-
class families and the impacts this bill will have on them, the very 
real impact. You know what, raising a family is very expensive today. A 
recent study from the Department of Agriculture found that middle-
income households will spend over $230,000 raising a child. It is 
staggering--staggering.

  The Federal Reserve found that almost half of American families are 
struggling right now to come up with $400 if they have an emergency 
expense. In West Virginia, where the median income is $41,000--hardly 
the wealthy--families are forced to make hard tradeoffs as they balance 
their checkbooks each month.
  Expenses are going up. Yet most Americans haven't received a raise in 
years. So we need to help working families, especially those living 
paycheck to paycheck, and this is one of the primary goals of our tax 
reform. We want middle-class, middle-earned-income

[[Page S6828]]

folks, hard-working folks to get more in their pocket to decide what 
they want to do with their money. I raised three children. I know just 
putting shoes on your children is an expensive proposition. Maybe you 
want to plan for a trip or save for college. Well, to pay for childcare 
and to save for college at the same time is almost impossible for our 
young families today.
  The framework we have set forward, I think, will help our families in 
many ways. First, it calls for a significant increase in the child tax 
credit. Yesterday, a number of my colleagues from the House and the 
Senate, joined with Ivanka Trump to highlight what an improved child 
tax credit would mean for working families. The tax reform proposal 
would allow families to take a higher per child credit, saving money on 
their taxes--money they have earned, money the families deserve to 
spend on their own, and money that could have significant impact to our 
families.
  We will also create a $500 tax credit for families who are caring for 
a nonchild dependent. Many Americans find themselves in the sandwich 
generation, where they are not only caring for their children, they are 
caring for their parents at the same time. This will help those 
families.
  Second, the proposal nearly doubles the standard deduction or the 
zero tax bracket. It raises it up to $24,000 for married taxpayers and 
up to $12,000 for single taxpayers.
  What kind of impact would this have on a State like mine? Well, 83 
percent of the taxpayers in West Virginia take the standard deduction. 
They are going to get a doubling in their standard deduction. That is 
more money for them to take home, to put the value of where they want 
to spend it with their own families. So four out of five West Virginia 
working families will benefit from that. That is an enormous savings, 
and even more taxpayers are likely to benefit, as the larger standard 
deduction means fewer people will itemize. We expect that figure to go 
up--from 83 percent up. It makes filing taxes simpler, and it makes it 
so our taxpayers can file on a single form without all of the extra 
forms, time, and money it takes.
  Finally, and most importantly, families will benefit from the 
economic growth that tax reform will bring to our country. This is 
probably the biggest impact that tax reform will have for working 
families. We will lower the corporate rate, yes, for companies, but we 
have to make our companies competitive across the globe. We are not. We 
are not competing. What kind of effect does that have? Fewer jobs and 
lower wages. Companies know that if they invest in their workforce, if 
they invest in the wages of their workforce, they are going to have a 
more productive workforce to produce products, to sell products, to 
enhance the quality of life of their communities.
  Many of these large corporations that are scattered around our 
country really do a lot of work in the community service parts of our 
country, whether it is helping with schools or whether it is helping 
with the baseball teams or sponsoring a robotics team. Why does that 
matter to working families? More than $2 trillion in profits earned by 
American companies is kept offshore because of the flaws in our current 
tax system--$2 trillion--and I think some of those estimates might be 
low. Shifting to a more fair and competitive system will bring those 
dollars back to the United States. Those companies want to invest in 
our country because they know we have the safest investments, we have 
the most technologically advanced and we have the best workforce, and 
this is great news for American families.
  The White House Council of Economic Advisers estimates that lowering 
that tax rate--that corporate tax rate--from 35 to 20 could increase 
the pay for the average American by about $4,000. At my small business 
roundtable, when I asked, what would you do with tax relief, the first 
thing she said was ``raise the wages of my seven employees.''
  So I think that this would be good news for working families, 
certainly good news for 50 percent of the West Virginia workers who 
work in small business. We need to make sure we work together, that we 
target our tax relief to middle-class families.
  I say to the Acting President pro tempore, you and I were at lunch 
the other day with the President. Priority No. 1, the President said 
that this tax cut must be targeted to the middle class, the working 
families in this country. That is what this bill has put forward: 
larger tax credit, larger standard deduction, unlocking the wages by 
lowering the competitive tax rate. Despite our hard work, too many 
middle-class families are falling behind, and we want to make sure that 
trend stops.
  So all of us, I think, can join together. This is going to go through 
committee. Both parties will have lots of opportunity to weigh in, and 
I look forward to looking into the eyes of the working men and women in 
my State and saying: Not only is help on the way, but help is here.
  Thank you so much.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I think it is going to be a very robust 
conversation about taxes. When we look into the eyes of working 
Americans, I hope my Republican colleagues are ready to answer this 
question, and that is, Why do they, the Republican Party, want to send 
$3.5 trillion of tax benefits to the top 1 percent? Why not spend the 
tax benefits on the middle class?
  Well, my colleagues keep coming to the floor and saying this is all 
about the middle class, but they don't mention that, in fact, every 
single major change is all about benefits for the richest 1 percent.
  Changing the dynasty tax to create a dynasty loophole, wow, that 
really doesn't benefit anybody in the working class. Lowering the top 
bracket while raising the bottom bracket, well, that doesn't help 
anybody in the working class. Providing a special passthrough for those 
who can put their business activities into limited liability 
corporations and have a special low rate, well, that certainly doesn't 
help anybody in the middle class.
  One provision after another, after another is targeted at the richest 
Americans, while coming and preaching help for the middle class. Oh, 
the American people will see right through this scheme. They are going 
to ask: Why is it you do so little for those at the bottom? In fact, 
you do nothing for those in the bottom third. Why is it you do so 
little for those in the middle class? In fact, many of them will see a 
tax increase. Why do you send the vast bulk of the benefits to the 
richest Americans when the richest Americans are already so much richer 
than anyone else?

  The debate we are going to have is important. For my colleagues who 
think they can fool the American people by talking about the middle 
class and instead are targeting the richest to be richer, I have news: 
It is not going to work.


                           Climate Disruption

  Now, Mr. President, I will turn to a different topic. Climate 
disruption is a seminal challenge of our generation. It affects 
everything from our forests to fisheries and farming. Rural America is 
the core target of the impacts of the changing climate, and we see the 
impacts worldwide. We see it in disappearing ice sheets and melting 
permafrost and the reduced number of glaciers around the world and 
dying coral reefs. We see it in migrating animals and insects. We 
certainly see it in the more powerful hurricanes hitting the United 
States in Texas and Puerto Rico and Florida.
  In response, communities around the world are transforming their 
energy economies. They are increasing the efficiencies of their 
buildings, their vehicles, and their appliances. They are working to 
replace carbon-polluting fossil fuel energy with clean and renewable 
energy.
  Well, how much do you know about the changes underway? Let's find 
out. Welcome to episode 6 of the ``Senate Climate Disruption Quiz.'' 
Here we go.
  First question: In December of 2016, vehicle emissions and coal 
production in the United States of America were each at record lows 
since what year? Were they at record lows since 1970, 1974, 1980, or 
1986? Lock in your answers.
  The answer is not 1970 or 1974 or 1980; the answer is 1986. We are 
now working on over three decades, despite a vast increase in the 
vehicle miles traveled. We have reduced the emissions, and we certainly 
reduced the emissions in coal production. We are experiencing quite

[[Page S6829]]

a change. We see the transition through clean and renewable energy 
irrevocably underway.
  Let's go to the second question. How many Republican 
Representatives--Members of the House--asserted that climate change has 
the potential to adversely impact all Americans? How many Republican 
Members of the House? Was it 13 or 17 or 20 or 22? Admittedly, it is a 
modest number.
  The number was 17. The answer is B. These 17 Republican lawmakers 
introduced a resolution warning that ``if left unaddressed, the 
consequences of a changing climate have the potential to adversely 
impact all Americans.'' So this is a very big deal, that 17 Republicans 
in the party financed by the coal and oil billionaires, who have really 
taken complete control of the U.S. Senate, stood up to them and said: 
We are going to speak on behalf of our responsibility, as citizens of 
the United States of America, to protect our citizens from the assault 
on our farming and our forestry and our fishing from climate 
disruption. I praise those 17 for having done so. It is a powerful, 
bipartisan step in the right direction of championing the cause of all 
Americans--and for that matter, the entire planet.
  Question No. 3: In July of this year, California extended its cap-
and-trade program to which year? Did it extend it for just a couple of 
years to 2020 or to the year 2025, 2030, or 2035? How long did 
California lay this vision into the future? Lock in your answers.
  The answer is 2030. The program would have otherwise expired in 2020, 
so they extended it another decade. It was basically a statement of 
confidence that the program that they laid out, that they have in place 
now, is working and deserves extension. It is the only program of its 
kind in the country, and it is the second largest in the world.
  Under this vision, this new and expanded program, California will cut 
its emissions of carbon dioxide 40 percent from its 1990 levels, 
despite having a vastly expanded economy. That is a powerful vision and 
a vision we need to extend through completely eliminating the burning 
of fossil fuels in the next three decades.
  Question No. 4: How many acres of our citizen-owned--that is, our 
Federal--fossil fuels were leased to industry as of October 2016? Had 
we leased out 30 million acres of Federal land for the extraction of 
fossil fuels or 45 million or 53 million or 67 million? Any of these is 
really a vast amount of what we own as citizens. Lock in your answers.
  The answer is at the top end of the spectrum--67 million acres. What 
this means is that for years and even decades into the future, we have 
already contracted for a vast amount of fossil fuels to be extracted 
from our citizen-owned lands. These extractions add to the problem 
facing rural America and the impact on our farmers and our fishermen 
and our forests. That area which has been leased out for the extraction 
of fossil fuels, which, as citizens, you and I own, is the size of 
Colorado--a vast sea of fossil fuel extraction leases on public lands. 
It shows the dire need to pass the Keep It in the Ground Act.
  The only responsible thing for us to do is to not do any more leases 
of our citizen-owned oil or coal or gas. The responsible thing to do, 
the right thing to do, especially as we work in partnership with the 
world, is to say no new leases that expand this 67 million acre number.
  Now let's turn to Question No. 5. Which U.S. community was the first 
to make a decision to divest all of its oil and gas stocks because of 
the impact of oil and gas on destroying our Nation? Was it Cooperstown, 
NY; Salem, OR; Lawrence, KS; or Walla Walla, WA? Lock in your answers.
  The answer is Cooperstown, NY. There is quite an interesting story 
behind this, a remarkable story. At the center of the story is a man 
named Louis Allstadt. Mr. Allstadt is a retired ExxonMobil executive. 
At one point, he managed all of Mobil Oil's exploration in the United 
States, Canada, and Latin America, so he knew the oil industry, the 
fossil fuel industry, inside-out from the very top level.
  After retiring, he ran for town trustee in Cooperstown. As a town 
trustee, he then spearheaded an effort for Cooperstown to become the 
first town in the United States to divest its oil and gas stocks. Mr. 
Allstadt summed it up this way: ``You don't just keep driving your car 
when you see a cliff ahead.'' Well said. Yet so many in this Chamber 
are determined to drive the car over the cliff.
  From the high reaches of the executive suites of Exxon Mobil, Mr. 
Allstadt could see the damage being done to the planet by the continued 
burning of fossil fuels. He saw the absolute need to stop, and he took 
a principled, moral stand on behalf of us all.
  Thank you, Mr. Allstadt, for doing that and setting that example. It 
is one we should all pay attention to. Every city council and every 
mayor across the country should ask the question: Should we follow Mr. 
Allstadt's example, the example of Cooperstown, NY? Because if we 
continue in the direction we are going, we will do fabulous amounts of 
damage from which we will not easily recover--if we can recover at all.
  So there you have it, folks--episode 6 of the ``Senate Climate 
Disruption Quiz.'' These questions were ripped from the headlines. 
Facts on the ground are changing fast as climate disruption increases 
and communities across the globe respond. We are racing the clock, and 
we have no time to spare. So stay engaged in the fight.
  In the near future, I will bring you episode 7 of the ``Senate 
Climate Disruption Quiz.''
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Florida.
  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, over the next few weeks, the Senate, the 
House, Congress--everybody here in Washington is going to be engaged in 
what I think is one of the most important and potentially impactful 
debates we have had here in a long time. For a place that has been so 
criticized for not doing anything, we have a chance to actually do 
something that is going to matter and help real people and help the 
country. It is called tax reform.
  I think the great thing about a tax reform debate is that it actually 
goes to the heart and soul of our identity as a nation and who we want 
to be and who we have been up to this point.
  We are a nation that has embraced free enterprise. There are people 
who don't believe in free enterprise. There are people who believe in 
different variations of free enterprise. By and large, America has 
believed in free enterprise. That basically means the government 
doesn't try to control too much of the economy. People have private 
property and private businesses. You have rules to make sure people 
don't cheat and steal from one another or hurt people, but by and 
large, we believe in a private economy. Why do we believe that? I think 
the answer to that is not just a purely economic one; you look back at 
our founding.
  One of the unique things about this country that we have taken for 
granted and do not do a good enough job of teaching young Americans is 
that America was not created as a nation to bring together a common 
race or a common ethnicity or a common religion. There are a lot of 
nations around the world--in fact, I would argue that most of the 
nations that have ever existed have been a homeland for the people who 
were born and have lived in that one place--not us. We were founded on 
the idea that you could bring different kinds of people from different 
backgrounds and unite them as one people, despite their differences in 
background and ethnicity and religion. You could unite them behind a 
very powerful idea--the idea that all of us are created equal because 
we were born with a God-given right to life and to liberty and to 
pursue happiness.
  That is not just a revolutionary idea; it has changed the world. It 
has been the identity of our country. It is among everything else that 
makes us unique and special. In every generation, it has been 
challenged economically, socially, and culturally. We need to continue 
to fight for that.
  One of the core principles behind equal opportunity is the ability to 
fulfill your economic potential--to grow up and be who you want to be, 
do what you want to do, open a company or work for a certain industry 
or career or

[[Page S6830]]

stay home and raise children. Whatever your choice is, they are all 
legitimate. We are a nation that believes we all have the God-given 
right to pursue that, and that is something which free enterprise makes 
possible.
  The difference between free enterprise and people who want government 
to control everything is--the best analogy I can think of is, imagine a 
pie. Let's use a pie as an example. I can't bring one on the floor to 
graphically detail it, but imagine one in your mind. Imagine if I said 
to you: This pie will never grow. It will always be the same size. 
Every single one of us gets a slice.
  Well, if the pie can't grow and everyone gets a slice, then the 
bigger your slice, the smaller my slice. That is what people who don't 
believe in free enterprise argue. They argue that the pie really can't 
grow, and so you need government to make sure that pie is sliced 
equally or equal enough among everybody. The Tax Code is one of the 
ways they do it.
  There is another argument. It is the one I believe in. It is the one 
that I think has made this country the most prosperous in human 
history. It is the argument that that pie doesn't have to stay that 
size. We can make it a pie that is a lot bigger and make sure it keeps 
growing. Therefore, it doesn't matter how big the other person's slice 
is, as long as your slice is big too. More for them doesn't mean less 
for you. That is one of the unique attributes of free enterprise: 
Everyone can be better off without anyone being left worse off. That is 
the theory, but it doesn't always work in practice for a lot of 
different reasons. That doesn't mean anarchy. We do need government. I 
am not anti-regulation; I am anti-overregulation.

  I fly on airplanes. Everybody here flies on a lot of airplanes. I am 
sure we are all glad that airplane is inspected and the person who is 
flying it is really a pilot and not just someone who stayed at Holiday 
Inn Express.
  I think all of us want to make sure that when you open a bottle of 
medicine prescribed to you, what is in that bottle is actually the 
medicine and not something fake or something different.
  When we eat food, we want to make sure it is not poisonous or going 
to spread disease. These are all products of regulation.
  The same is true in economics. That is why we have antitrust laws. 
That is why we take on anti-competitiveness, because it actually 
undermines free enterprise. I am not talking about corporatism, because 
there are a lot of countries around the world that claim to be free 
enterprise, but they really aren't. Four or five big companies control 
everything, and everybody else either works for them or is unemployed. 
That is not what I am talking about.
  I am talking about free enterprise--a nation and a system in which 
someone can quit their job, open a business, compete with their former 
employer, and put them out of business--or at least take away some of 
their customers--because you are better than they are. That is free 
enterprise. That is what we believe in, and the Tax Code is a part of 
it.
  What has challenged free enterprise in this country in the 21st 
century and you sense it in people's frustrations? There are two 
things.
  The first is there is a lot of overcompetition. It wasn't true in the 
sixties and seventies. We forget Germany and Japan. These countries 
were wiped out completely during World War II. It took them decades to 
rebuild. America was the only show in town for much of the fifties, 
sixties, up into the seventies. But all of these other countries 
watched us grow, and they started doing the things we did. They started 
deregulating, and they most certainly started cutting taxes.
  The result has been that over the last 20 or 25 years, most countries 
in the industrialized world, the big economies, charge companies a lot 
less in taxes than we do. What that does over time is make us 
uncompetitive. That is why not a day goes by that you don't read about 
some American company that was bought by a company in another country 
and moved over there. Do you know why? Because they pay less in taxes 
over there than they do here. Anyone who doesn't realize that is 
missing a big part of it.
  We are not the only show in town anymore. We have to compete, and 
that is why our Tax Code is important. If it becomes uncompetitive, you 
are basically forcing and/or inviting companies to leave the United 
States for a more favorable tax treatment--and that has happened.
  Do you know who has paid the price? Not the rich people. If you are a 
wealthy investor, you can invest your money anywhere in the world. Even 
if you make your money here, I promise you, you have the best lawyers 
and the best accountants to find every creative loophole to save money. 
And if that loophole doesn't exist, you will hire the best lobbyist to 
make one.
  In the end, the truly wealthy--the billionaires, the owners with 
these extraordinary amounts of wealth--they will figure it out. Do you 
know who gets hurt? The people who get paid every 2 weeks. That is who 
gets hurt because when those companies leave the United States, they 
take their jobs with them. The fewer of those there are and the more 
people we have competing for fewer jobs, the less people get paid at a 
time when everything costs more.
  There is another thing that is hurting us, and it is not part of the 
tax reform, but it is the way growth is now distributed. We can no 
longer just assume that if the economy grows, everyone will be better 
off automatically, because the truth is, in the 21st century, there are 
some careers, some industries, and some jobs that pay substantially 
more.
  Do you want to talk about the haves and have-nots in the 21st 
century? The haves and the have-nots are the people who have advanced 
education and the right skills and the people who do not. We have to 
close that gap. Vocational training--that is a separate topic that has 
to be dealt with and is critically important in the way growth is 
distributed. But you have no growth to distribute if you don't have 
growth. So that is why this is so important.
  When you hear all this talk about wealthy corporations getting huge 
tax breaks, it is not necessarily true. It is really, really important 
for people to pay attention to the details and not just the talking 
points on this.
  For example, let's say company X is a publicly traded company, so 
they sell stock on Wall Street and the like. Next year, because we 
lower taxes, that company makes $1 million more than they did this 
year. What can they do with that million dollars for a publicly traded 
company? There are really only four things they can do with that money, 
and all four of them help working Americans.
  The first thing they can do is grow the business. They can say: We 
like our business a lot. We now have a million dollars more than we 
thought we were going to have, but we believe so much in our future 
that we are going to take that million dollars and we are going to 
invest it to grow the company. We are going to open a new factory. We 
are going to open more stores and hire more people as a result. We are 
going to invest in more equipment, which means the people who make that 
equipment have more work. That is the first thing you can do with the 
money you might save on taxes.
  The second thing you might have to do--maybe you don't grow your 
business, but with that million dollars extra that you have from the 
tax cuts, you are going to have to pay your employees more because, if 
not, they are going to quit and go to work for somebody else. So all of 
a sudden, you are now in a position to be able to hire good people and 
retain them by paying them more and by offering better benefits to keep 
them. That is the second thing you can do with the money.
  The third thing you can do with the million dollars from the tax cut 
that you didn't plan on having is lower prices. You can say: I am in 
competition with these five other businesses to sell the same thing. We 
are going to use our million dollars to lower our prices just a little 
bit, just enough so that people buy it from us instead of them. Do you 
know what that other company is going to have to do? They are going to 
have to lower prices, too, to compete with you. Do you know who 
benefits from the lowering of prices? The middle class. The people who 
are going to shop are going to be paying less because of the 
competition. That is the third thing that can happen.
  The fourth thing that can happen and the one that gets the most 
criticism is,

[[Page S6831]]

well, they will just pay it to the shareholders in dividends. OK. Who 
are the shareholders? The shareholders are wealthy people who trade in 
Wall Street and spend all day in front of a computer and have these 
brokerage accounts and people who handle their accounts. They are a 
part of it.
  You know who else are shareholders? Millions and millions of 
Americans. If you are a firefighter or a police officer with a union 
pension, you are a shareholder. You might not be aware of the companies 
you have shares in, but it is in your pension, and the future of your 
pension will depend on how those investments go. If you are a 401(k) 
holder, you are a shareholder. Just because you are not in front of the 
computer every day, checking your TD Ameritrade account to see how much 
money you have in X stock and Y stock does not mean you are not a 
shareholder. You are a shareholder.
  Virtually every sort of investment mechanism for retirement in 
America is invested in what is called equities, is invested in the 
market, is invested in stocks and bonds. If, in fact, those things are 
doing better, it is helping you retire.
  That is why the business side of this is so important. It will help 
grow the economy, but it actually will also help people because there 
is nowhere else for that money to go.
  The other type of small business, which is actually the majority, has 
been called a passthrough, and that is what most businesses are 
organized as. That is where you pay on your personal rate. If you are a 
small business owner with three employees, you are an S corporation, 
and at the end of the year, you pay your taxes on your personal rate. 
Your rate is actually higher than the companies, the corporations, 
except you can't hire the lawyers and the accountants and all the other 
expertise. You are actually, in many cases, paying more than the big 
companies. These small businesses need to be helped, too, and they 
would be with tax reform that lowers their rate and makes them 
competitive.
  Beyond ensuring that people are either going to have better 
retirement funds, lower prices, more pay, more jobs, and we are helping 
small businesses, the vast majority of which are owned by people who 
are not multimillionaires and billionaires, the other thing we can do 
to help working-class people in this country is an expansion of the 
child tax credit. It is an idea that Senator Lee and I have been 
pushing for the better part of 2 years. It wasn't always universally 
popular, but I am going to explain three reasons why it is important. 
In fact, not only is it important, but it has to happen. If we don't do 
this, then someone could argue that this is not a middle-class tax cut. 
If we do it, it will be, perhaps, the single largest middle-class tax 
cut in modern history.
  The child tax credit is a credit you get per child. Obviously, it 
phases out at some point--the more money you make. Why do we have it? 
We have it for two reasons: No. 1, we truly believe that the family is 
the most important institution in society and parenting is the most 
important job you will ever have. I don't care who you are. If you are 
the President, if you are a Senator, if you are a Congressman--I don't 
care what you do--the most important job you will ever have, the most 
influence you will ever have, the most impactful thing you will ever do 
is to raise a family, so our Tax Code accounts for that. It should.
  The second thing is that raising children is expensive. If you are 
raising children right now or have at any time in the near past, you 
know how expensive it is. I don't know where they get these numbers, 
but they sound right to me. The Department of Agriculture estimates 
that to raise children from the time they are born to the time they are 
18 is about $235,000 per child. That is a staggering amount of money. 
That doesn't even account for college, by the way.
  All you have to do is spend just 10 minutes; just go out one day this 
weekend and talk to the people you know who are working parents, and 
ask them. They are going to tell you one of the most expensive things 
they face, especially between the time their children are born and the 
time they turn 4 or 5, is childcare. In over two-thirds of the States 
in this country, this costs more than it does to go to college. Imagine 
that you make $800 a week that you take home, but you have to spend 
$400 a week on childcare for your two kids. That is half your paycheck.

  I am not saying a child tax credit fixes all of that. I am saying 
that is a cost that keeps going up. It is a reason why the tax credit 
has lost about $300 in value from the time it was last expanded in 
2003.
  The other thing to add to it is, if you look at some of the changes 
being proposed on the personal deduction, that is another $500 off. In 
essence, at $800 per child, we are just breaking even. That is why we 
have to have a child tax credit that is at least $2,000 to really have 
an impact.
  The other thing we have to do is make it refundable. What that means 
is it has to apply against payroll tax. Medicare, Social Security 
taxes--that comes from FICA; it comes immediately off your paycheck. 
Everybody pays that tax.
  Not everybody pays income tax. If you don't make more than a certain 
amount of money, you don't have an income tax liability, but you are 
paying taxes. It is called the payroll tax. If we don't deal with that, 
if we don't make the child tax credit apply to that, then we are 
basically not cutting taxes or not helping the vast majority of people 
who need it. There has been some speculation that this would be too 
expensive and cost a lot of money. It is not true.
  No. 2, it is their money. You don't get it unless you owe it, and you 
don't owe it unless you are working. All we are saying is let people 
keep more of their money to pay for their cost of living.
  By the way, they are going to have to spend that money. We know that 
a large number of families in this country are living beyond what they 
make. That is why credit card debt has risen over the last 20 years. 
They are going to take that money, and they are going to spend it. They 
are going to spend a lot of it on raising their children. They are 
going to spend a lot of it on the things that we talked about.
  I am not saying this alone will change it, but, hopefully, the child 
tax credit, combined with a growing economy in which there are more 
jobs that pay more and prices are lower, is going to truly help people, 
and we have to help people in that regard. So this has to be a critical 
component of tax reform.
  I wanted to set the stage for that, because, unfortunately, it is a 
complicated thing. Unfortunately, taxes are very complicated, more than 
they really should be.
  There is going to be a lot of misinformation out there about who this 
actually helps and how the economy actually works. So it is really 
important for us to be clear and upfront about why it is that we are 
doing the things we are doing.
  When I hear all this talk about helping millionaires and 
billionaires--they are probably the people who care the least about 
some of the tax reforms. They are going to be finding their way; they 
just want to know what the rules are. They just want to know what the 
rules are because they are going to figure it out one way or the other. 
If their taxes are too high, they will take their money to another 
country. If they are low enough, they might invest it here. Either way, 
they are going to be fine.
  The people we really want to help are working people and small 
businesses, and the Tax Code is a part of that. It is not the only part 
of that, but it is a big part of it. That is why this has to happen. It 
has to happen. It has been far too long.
  I want to take a step back and say that 50 years from now, when 
people read about this time in American history, they are going to ask 
themselves: What was wrong with those people? Did they not realize that 
all these other countries were taking their jobs, and one of the ways 
those jobs were leaving is that they were giving them away. They were 
literally inviting people to leave by acting so arrogant about 
themselves that they thought they could charge them anything they 
wanted in taxes, and they would stay. That is just not true anymore. I 
am not sure it ever was entirely true, but it is less true today than 
it ever was before.
  In the end, the people who are really being hurt by this are the 
people whose jobs don't pay enough at a time when everything costs 
more.
  The people who are really being hurt by this are the people who wish 
they

[[Page S6832]]

could start their own business, but they can't because they don't think 
they can make enough money to survive.
  The people who are really being hurt by this are parents who are 
trying to raise their children at a time when everything costs more, 
but their paychecks aren't keeping pace.
  The people who are really being hurt by this are the people who sit 
down every month, and they write down on a piece of paper: This is our 
budget for the month. And about 14 or 15 days into the month, something 
comes in the mail that they didn't expect was on its way, and all of a 
sudden, that whole budget gets blown out, and now they have to use a 
credit card to pay for it.
  The people who are being hurt by this are the people whose kids are 
now 17 years old, and they say: I want them to go to college, but I 
have no idea whether they are going to be able to go. Even with 
financial aid, they are going to have to borrow money to go to school, 
and now they are in debt. Before they even vote in their first 
election, they already owe $10,000. We have to help them if we are 
going to rebuild the country's economy, and tax reform is a key part of 
it.
  Here is my last point. There has been a lot of talk about debt--that 
this is going to grow the debt. That actually doesn't have to be true. 
If you lower the tax rate and businesses are hiring more people, 
creating more jobs, and growing, that is going to grow your economy. 
When you grow your economy, you have more taxpayers. When you have more 
taxpayers, you have more revenue. Even though you didn't raise the 
rate, you will still collect more money because even though you don't 
have more taxes, you have more taxpayers. That is a big chunk of this.
  Just a normal, not unrealistic growth rate would more than pay for 
the money that people are saying we are not going to collect as a 
result of this. That is part one of it.
  The other thing that is interesting to me is if we stood here today 
and said ``Let's take $1.7 trillion and spend it to build stuff that 
the government does,'' there would be no problem with that. That would 
be seen as stimulus. That is positive. That is good debt spending. But, 
somehow, if we say ``Let's take money and give it back to people so 
they can spend it themselves,'' that is bad debt. That is ridiculous.
  The third thing I would say is that you are never going to tax your 
way out of debt anyway. Even if we tax everyone in America next year--
if, for everyone in America who made $1 million next year, we 
confiscated every penny of it and said ``Your tax rate this year is 100 
percent,'' it would not even make a dent on the debt. That is how big 
the debt is and how fast it is growing. So you can't tax your way out 
of this, and you can't just cut your way out of it, either, by the way. 
So the only solution to our debt long term is that you have to do two 
separate things, and you have to do them both.

  No. 1, you have to grow your economy. You have to. That pie has to 
grow. No. 2, the debt has to be held back so it doesn't grow as big as 
the economy. If you grow the economy by 4 percent and you grow the debt 
by 4.5 percent, then you are not going to get there. You have to do 
both. This is part one--grow the economy.
  Part two is going to have to be to bring our spending on a 
sustainable path so that the growth and the benefits of the growth and 
the revenue from the growth aren't being taken and used to pay for even 
more government.
  To use a best analogy, if you owe a lot of money and you only make 
$2,000, and next month you get paid $3,000 a month but you add $1,500 a 
month of expenditures, then you are still owing more money. So you have 
to do both. You have to generate more revenue through growth--not 
through more taxes--and you have to hold the long-term line on 
spending. This is step one of that two-step process. We have a chance 
to do it here before the year is out. We have to do it, and I believe 
we will. It will be hard. It should be hard.
  I always laugh when I read these articles that say: Oh, tax reform is 
divisive, and people are arguing about it. They should argue about it. 
They don't have a lot of arguments about economic policy in China, by 
the way, because there is not much of an opposition, but in America, we 
are a republic. There are different ideas. There should be different 
ideas. Tax reform should be controversial. It is important. There 
should be debate, and there will be so we arrive at good public policy. 
There is nothing wrong with that. It is a good thing, not a bad thing, 
as long as that debate is geared toward reaching a result.
  In the end, I will tell you this, if we don't do it, I actually think 
it will hurt our economy, not keep it the way it is. It will actually 
hurt it because a lot of businesses, a lot of employers, and a lot of 
Americans assumed that this would happen, given who won the elections 
in 2016. They have already made investment decisions on the assumption 
that some of this was going to happen. I am telling you, if it doesn't 
happen, the collapse of confidence will hurt the economy badly. Failing 
to act will actually reverse whatever gains we have already made this 
year on the expectation of growth and will actually shatter people's 
confidence in America's future.
  If you are sitting there today thinking: Where am I going to open 
this big plant and hire 1,000 people, and you see tax reform collapse 
in the United States, and the people in the House, in the Senate, and 
in the White House are all supportive of tax reform, and you still 
couldn't get it done, you are going to say to yourself: Guess what; I 
am not going to invest in that place because even when the people who 
are in favor of it are in charge, they still can't get it done.
  Not doing tax reform will not lead to the status quo. It will 
actually leave us worse off. That is why we must do it. That is why the 
child tax credit has to happen, by the way, because not only can we not 
pass it without it, but we can't justify it without it.
  I am optimistic that we are going to get there. It will be a lot of 
work, but it will be good work. It will be the reason why so many of us 
are here to begin with. We come here to make a difference. We come here 
because we want to contribute toward making things better--not perfect, 
but better. This will make things better.
  For all the people who complain that we spend years here and nothing 
ever happens, this is the chance to see something happen in our time 
here and be able to look back when our service here is done and say: We 
made a difference while we were there.
  That is what we are endeavoring to do, and I am excited about the 
fact that I believe we are going to do it. It will be long, it will be 
hard, but it will be fun and it will be good for our country and for 
our people. If we do it right, it will be one of the most rewarding 
things any of us will ever do in our time here in public service.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sullivan). The Senator from Minnesota.


                               Healthcare

  Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about the urgent 
need for action on the Children's Health Insurance Program and other 
vital safety net programs.
  On September 30 of this year, 3 weeks ago, funding for the Children's 
Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, expired, and funding for community 
health centers also expired, as did funding for the National Health 
Service Corps. These three cornerstone programs provide essential 
health services to hundreds of thousands of my constituents and to 
millions of people across the country.
  Although these programs have historically secured strong bipartisan 
support and, ostensibly, still do today, the Republican majority has 
not moved these bills forward toward passage, and it is really time to 
act.
  My home State of Minnesota is one of the first States to exhaust its 
funding for its Children's Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, a program 
that covers 125,000 low-income children and 1,700 pregnant women.
  While the Federal Government has provided some emergency stop-gap 
funding, that, too, is slated to run out by the end of November. 
Minnesota has a long tradition of insuring coverage to vulnerable 
populations. So coverage for low-income children will continue, no 
matter what. However, over the next few weeks, if CHIP funding is not 
reauthorized, the State will have to decide whether it will take 
extraordinary measures and incur significant financial losses to 
continue providing coverage for vital services, like prenatal and 
postnatal care for the pregnant women, whose coverage is currently 
funded by CHIP. This is a terrible

[[Page S6833]]

choice that States shouldn't have to make, and it doesn't have to be 
that way.
  Minnesota is not alone. Five other States and the District of 
Columbia will see their funding dry up by December, and 25 more States 
will exhaust their funding by early next year.
  Pretty soon, thousands of families could receive notices informing 
them that their coverage will be terminated. Imagine for a second what 
that moment would feel like. You have a son or a daughter with a 
serious medical condition, and, perhaps, they are even in the hospital. 
You find out that their health insurance is going to be cut off because 
the Republican-controlled Congress couldn't get its act together to 
continue funding for a bipartisan program that has been in existence 
for decades. I would be livid. That is why we have to act now.
  For most of this year, the Republican majority has been consumed with 
destructive and counterproductive debates focused on repealing 
ObamaCare. They have done little else. That meant that not only did we 
blow past the funding deadline for the Children's Health Insurance 
Program, but we also blew through the funding deadlines for community 
health centers and the National Health Service Corps program. Now this 
critical reauthorization is on hold because Republicans can't agree on 
how to pay for it. This comes just a week after Republicans in the 
Senate endorsed the budget to increase the debt by up to $1.5 trillion 
over 10 years for tax cuts that will largely benefit the wealthiest 
Americans. In fact, the Tax Policy Center estimates that 80 percent of 
benefits of the Republican tax plan would go to the top 1 percent of 
income earners in this country.
  This is truly a case of the absurd. When it comes to providing 
healthcare for needy children and keeping Americans healthy, 
Republicans are saying they can't do it unless it is paid for, and, 
often, that means making cuts to other safety net programs in which 
vulnerable individuals rely. But when it comes to tax cuts for the 
wealthy, which costs many, many, many, many times more than the cost of 
providing children with health insurance, my Republican colleagues are 
perfectly happy to do that without demands for offsets and, instead, 
adding costs to the debt. This is not responsible budgeting, and it is 
not just kids that stand to lose under this type of budgeting approach. 
Let me tell you about the other programs at risk in my State of 
Minnesota.
  In Minnesota, there are more than 70 community health center clinics 
that receive a total of $27 million in funding to care for the 
uninsured and the underinsured in the State. If this funding is not 
reauthorized soon, these community health centers and the patients they 
serve are going to experience serious losses and not just financial 
losses.
  Take, for example, Sawtooth Mountain Clinic, which provides care to 
some of the most isolated and rural counties up in the northeastern 
corner of my State, in the Arrowhead. Sawtooth reports that it would 
lose up to $1 million, which would force them to cut back on staff and 
services, having a drastic ripple effect across the entire community.
  The CEO of the clinic in Grand Marais explains:

       We are the only clinic and providers in all of Cook 
     County--

  Parenthetically, that is a big county--

     and also one of the only providers serving the Grand Portage 
     band.

  That is the band of the Chippewa or Ojibwe.

       Since 1965, Congress has provided this stable and 
     critically important funding that supports our isolated and 
     rural communities. Congress needs to do its work and needs to 
     act now.

  Similarly, without funding for the National Health Service Corps--
this is what the program does. It provides financial support and loan 
repayment for clinicians who practice in underserved areas. I know the 
Presiding Officer must be interested in that, as Alaska has some 
underserved areas and needs providers to serve in those areas. Many 
providers, including those in greater Minnesota, will not be able to 
recruit or hire new staff.
  In a recent news article, the chief executive of a Minneapolis-based 
network of clinics stated that the National Health Service Corps Loan 
Repayment Program offered him a unique bargaining chip against the 
larger health systems. Without this program, he believes he wouldn't be 
able to successfully compete for providers.
  Look, I recognize how we got here and where the time and energy has 
been spent over the last few months, and I am proud that we were able 
to abide by the will of the people and successfully stop the effort to 
repeal the ACA and strip healthcare from millions of people. I would 
hope that we would recognize that we have here historically bipartisan 
legislation to reauthorize funding for children's health insurance 
coverage and other safety net programs. It is incumbent upon us to act, 
and act now. We have to reauthorize these programs so that Minnesotans 
and millions of the families across the country are not unnecessarily 
and unfairly harmed as a result of our inaction.
  In the same news story I referred to earlier, the CEO of NorthPoint 
Health & Wellness, another safety net clinic in Minnesota, stated:

       There is a high degree of anxiety for staff and for some of 
     our patients. . . . I think Congress understands that we are 
     vital to the safety net and they have to continue to support 
     the community health centers.

  Let's work together to pass this legislation so we don't let these 
clinics and the patients they serve down. It is time to act, and time 
to act now.
  Thank you very much, Mr. President.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Colorado.


                            Wildfire Funding

  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, in recent months, Americans have been hit 
by a string of natural disasters--from devastating hurricanes in Puerto 
Rico, Florida, and Texas, to catastrophic wildfires in Oregon, Montana, 
and California. Earlier this week, the Senate voted to provide urgent 
relief to our communities in need.
  Although Colorado was fortunate this year--we could have easily had 
fires, but we were very fortunate, unlike Montana, this year--we know 
the devastation of wildfires all too well. In 2012, the Waldo Canyon 
fire raged for 16 days, incinerating 18,000 acres, destroying over 300 
homes, and forcing the evacuation of more than 32,000 Coloradans. Years 
later, our communities are still recovering from the damage.
  Out West, wildfires can be catastrophic events. Yet Washington 
continues to fund them differently than other major disasters, such as 
hurricanes, tornadoes, or floods. When those disasters strike, we pay 
for emergency response from an entirely separate account. When a 
wildfire catches, that cost falls entirely on the U.S. Forest Service. 
If it is a catastrophic fire, as we see now in Montana and Northern 
California, those costs can easily exceed the Forest Service budget for 
fire suppression. That forces the Forest Service to borrow funds from 
other accounts to make up the difference. That is something no one has 
to do for any other disaster in America. This is often at the expense 
of efforts to prevent the next catastrophic fire.
  It stands to reason that if we spend less and less on fire 
prevention, which is what the Forest Service is doing every year 
because of the way the Congress has set this up, we are going to spend 
more and more on fire suppression, fighting fires, and that is what is 
happening. That is exactly what has happened.
  In 1995, the Forest Service spent around 16 percent of its budget on 
fire suppression--16 percent. Last year, it spent over half of its 
budget. For the first time in the Forest Service's history, they spent 
over half their budget fighting fires. You might as well call it the 
fire-fighting agency, not the Forest Service agency. In fact, the 
number was closer to 60 percent. The Forest Service had to borrow over 
half a billion dollars from other accounts in the agency--accounts that 
are important to Colorado, Wyoming, and Alaska.
  While we replenished those accounts in disaster aid packages earlier 
this year, we once again failed to address why they were depleted in 
the first place. Until we do, we are going to find ourselves in the 
same position every year. This is no way to run a government. It makes 
no sense from a fiscal perspective, and it makes no sense from a public 
welfare perspective. This is not how we should manage our taxpayer 
dollars. Undercutting fire prevention is the definition of being penny 
wise and pound foolish. Every dollar we

[[Page S6834]]

spend on disaster prevention leads to $5 of savings down the road.
  We need to reinvest in fire prevention and in forest mitigation. In 
Colorado, our forests are in terrible shape. And it is not just 
Colorado citizens who need to care about that; anybody who lives 
downstream of our rivers, which are States all across America, needs to 
care about the condition of those headwaters. Those headwaters that are 
owned by the public, entrusted in the Forest Service, are in terrible 
shape because of this Congress's inability to deal with this.
  We have over 800 million dead standing trees in the State of Colorado 
alone. Our communities, our watersheds, and our infrastructure are at 
risk. The Forest Service knows how to do this. They know how to 
mitigate that--by thinning timber and managing prescribed burns. But 
right now, all of those projects are on hold because the Forest Service 
anticipates having to fight more catastrophic fires next season. This 
is ridiculous. This is an affront to the people of Colorado and the 
people of the West.
  We have a solution. It is a simple solution. Let's pay for fire 
suppression the same way we pay for other disasters. Our bill, the 
Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, would do just that. It is backed by 
seven Democrats and, I am very proud to say, by four Republicans. 
Unlike a lot of issues in Washington, both parties actually agree on 
the solution.
  I know the administration is eager to fix this problem. Secretary 
Perdue knows that the current system makes no sense. He said as much at 
his confirmation hearing and again when he invited--and I so much 
appreciated this; we didn't ask--a bipartisan group of Senators to the 
Forest Service in September to discuss this. He knows that important 
wildfire mitigation projects are not getting done. He wants to fix the 
problem, and we should. It is far past time. This makes no sense from a 
fiscal point of view.
  I know some colleagues in this Chamber would prefer to couple our 
proposal with broader forest management reforms. I have been part of 
forest management discussions in the past, and I want to continue those 
discussions. In fact, in the last farm bill, we worked across the aisle 
to improve forest management.
  Let's be clear. For years now, efforts to link broad forest 
management reform with a funding fix have failed. They will not pass 
the Senate. Each year we do nothing, we continue to shortchange fire 
prevention, the good people who work for the Forest Service all across 
the country in our States, and we needlessly expose our communities to 
greater risks.
  We have to act--Colorado and the West cannot wait another year--and 
we will have a chance when Congress votes on another disaster package 
over the next few months. We should use that opportunity to finally fix 
this problem and put the Forest Service in a stronger position to 
prevent the next catastrophic fire.
  I thank my colleague from Wyoming for his patience and for his 
leadership on the Budget Committee.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming.
  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, while I am disappointed that we didn't 
continue the tradition of alternating speakers, I am glad that I got to 
hear both of the previous speakers.
  I used to work with the Senators from Colorado to make sure that 
there were pictures taken annually from the same spots to show the way 
the trees are dying. There was an infestation that was causing this. 
The only reason we don't still take those pictures is all the trees are 
dead. You can't show that it is spreading when they are all dead. They 
need to be cleaned up, and I am glad there is work being done on forest 
management.
  On healthcare, there is some effort being made between Senator 
Alexander and Senator Murray to get a bipartisan bill, but what we need 
to do around here is get some of the appointments finished up so that 
the President can have the people in place to solve these problems. We 
are having to spend 30 hours on the cloture of a district judge. I have 
never heard of that. I have been here 21 years now, and I have never 
heard of that. We have to get the appointments through. That is one of 
our prime jobs--to provide advice and consent for the President--and it 
is not happening on a timely basis.
  We have had to do 44 cloture motions on different people for the 
administration. At this point in President Obama's first term, that had 
only happened five times. With the previous President, it hadn't 
happened at all, and the previous one, it had only happened once. 
Already 44 times this year, it has taken us around 30 hours to get 
somebody through the process, and we have hundreds waiting to get 
through the process. That is one of our primary jobs. If we can't get 
those through the process, it is pretty hard for us to do the 
legislation we need to do.


                        Veterans Choice Program

  Today, Mr. President, I rise to express my serious concerns on behalf 
of our Nation's veterans. This is a huge problem in Wyoming. Wyoming is 
the least populated State in the Nation. If it is a huge problem there, 
it has to be even greater in States across the country, and I am sure 
it is a problem in all of them.
  In 2014, we learned that several veterans died in Arizona--a lot of 
veterans died in Arizona while staff at the Phoenix VA medical center 
entered false information about their wait times and appointments. They 
kept getting delayed. Later that year, we found that such scheduling 
manipulation was widespread, including in my home State of Wyoming. 
Congress responded by creating the Veterans Choice Program to help 
veterans get care in their communities and to get it promptly.
  Unfortunately, Wyoming veterans are continuing to experience delays 
and limited access to care. I have heard from many Wyoming veterans who 
have been unable to receive the care they need and many providers who 
have been unable to get reimbursed for medical services. Some doctors 
and facilities have ended their participation in VA Choice because it 
is taking too long to get reimbursed or they are unable to get 
reimbursed at all and they are having to do a tremendous amount of 
paperwork in order to even get to that final reimbursement. Sometimes 
when they finally get payment, the check is made out to the wrong 
provider. Time and again, I hear reports of how difficult it is to get 
simple answers, let alone care or provider reimbursement, from the VA 
and the contractor administering the program in Wyoming.
  The consequences of this poorly run program are ultimately borne by 
the veterans. In a frontier State like Wyoming, losing access to one 
specialist can mean losing access to the only specialist in the area.
  Sadly, Wyoming veterans continue to tell me about these problems 
because the situation isn't getting any better--that is in spite of my 
having the Secretary in my office and then having him bring his staff 
in, who had provided the terrible statistics that they were working 
from.
  One such veteran was waiting for a surgery followup and cancer 
screening and can't go to the same doctor now because VA Choice never 
paid them. Another veteran was not able to access vision care. Another 
could not access necessary neurological care because of reimbursement 
issues. I have even been contacted by veterans who are worried that 
they will go into collections because of claims that have not been paid 
by the Choice Program--not by them but by the Choice Program.
  Without improvements to the program, our veterans will have to 
continue to wait for needed care, and their quality of life will 
continue to be negatively impacted.
  I mentioned before that we are the least populated State in the 
country, and we have so many problems that I send a weekly list to the 
Secretary. I can't imagine what it is like in a high-population State.
  We created VA Choice to better serve the healthcare needs of 
veterans, not to create a new source of uncertainty about whether they 
will be able to get the care they need. That is unacceptable. It 
defeats the entire purpose of the program. Until Congress steps in to 
improve the program, more providers will drop out of the program and 
more veterans will be harmed. These men and women have given our 
country so much, and they deserve quality care in an efficient manner. 
Their providers need to be paid on time so our veterans can get the 
treatment they need. When

[[Page S6835]]

the system fails those who never failed us, trust degrades. We can do 
better than this. We must do better than this.
  I know my colleagues on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs are 
working hard to solve these issues. I am working with them to make sure 
that any new version of community care for our veterans takes into 
account the unique challenges that rural and frontier healthcare 
networks face. We hold the highest debt to our veterans. Let's repay 
that honor and honor their selfless service by providing them with the 
care they deserve.
  The veterans program was considered to be one of the best-run 
healthcare programs anywhere, and I heard nothing but compliments about 
it until the problem in Arizona, and then we found that the system had 
changed. That might be an indication of what could happen if we went to 
Federal healthcare for all, but this is one area that needs to be 
straightened out. It was a prime example of good care, and it isn't. We 
have to get it restored for our veterans.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, we have a very significant couple of votes 
coming up. One is the nomination of Scott Palk to be a district judge 
for the Western District of Oklahoma. We have been working on this for 
about 2 years now. He is one of the highest qualified individuals.
  I thank the leader for moving forward on his nomination this week. I 
know judicial nominations are a priority of the leader's, and I share 
his belief in the importance of filling the many vacancies we have with 
judges who will uphold the rule of law, not predetermine outcomes and 
not legislate from the bench. Scott Palk fulfills and embodies this 
philosophy, and I have full confidence that he will be a judge whom 
Oklahoma and the Nation will be proud of.
  This nomination is of great need to the Western District, located in 
Oklahoma City, which has a very heavy caseload. In fact, we have three 
vacancies on the bench there. One vacancy goes back over 4 years and 
another over 3 years, so this nomination is desperately needed.
  Mr. Palk was nominated in the last Congress--so it was not this 
Congress--during the previous administration. He made it through the 
Judiciary Committee by voice vote before we ran out of time at the end 
of the 114th Congress. We would have had this done, but we just flat 
ran out of time. He had bipartisan support in the last Congress and has 
in this Congress, with there having been a 17-to-3 vote in the 
Judiciary Committee. It is not very often that happens.
  He also has bipartisan support back home in Oklahoma. He comes highly 
recommended by David Boren. Everyone here knows who David Boren is. The 
Presiding Officer remembers David Boren. He was my predecessor in this 
seat. He was the president of the University of Oklahoma but is retired 
now. He is a Democrat. Actually, he and I were elected to the House of 
Representatives in Oklahoma on the same day, so we go back a long way. 
David Boren knows Mr. Palk very well because Scott Palk has worked at 
the University of Oklahoma College of Law for about 15 years now after 
his having left a successful career in both the U.S. attorney's office 
and as a county district attorney.
  David Boren said of Palk--now, this is a Democrat talking about Scott 
Palk--``He would make an excellent judge,'' would be ``balanced and 
fair in his approach,'' and has ``an excellent reputation for complete 
honesty and integrity.'' I don't know what more you could want in a 
judge.
  That is David Boren talking, my predecessor in the Senate.
  Again, I thank the leader for his commitment to fulfilling our 
judicial vacancies, and I ask that my colleagues support the 
nomination, as I am sure they will, with a ``yes'' vote for Mr. Palk.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. LANKFORD. I ask unanimous consent to speak for 2 minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, we are about to vote on a gentleman 
named Scott Palk, who was nominated by President Trump to serve as a 
U.S. district court judge for the Western District of Oklahoma on May 
8.
  On June 15 of this year, he passed the Judiciary Committee with 
bipartisan support. It has taken us this long, from June 15, going 
through the committee process, to finally getting this to the floor in 
the last days of October.
  This is the issue we face as a Senate right now. We have an opening 
with a judge who has already gone through the committee process, who 
has already been approved--who will be confirmed, I hope, with wide 
bipartisan support--but because of the ongoing delay of every nominee, 
of everything in the process, this is slowing down the wheels of our 
government across the country. Whether that be judges or whether that 
be individuals in the executive branch working in the agencies, we are 
seeing a constant slowing. We have to be able to correct this.
  I would state that Americans will be very pleased when they get a 
chance to see Scott Palk on the bench. He will be a fair judge. He 
comes from a great family and has a great passion to serve people, both 
as he served in the U.S. attorney's office in the past and at the 
University of Oklahoma, working at the law school there. He will make 
the Nation proud. I am glad we have finally gone through this extremely 
long process to finally get him on and to get him seated on that bench.
  In the days ahead, I look forward to the other positions in 
government being filled as well with other well-qualified individuals. 
I look forward to seeing this done. I look forward to seeing Scott Palk 
not as Scott Palk but as Judge Palk.
  With that, I yield back.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sasse). All time has expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Palk 
nomination?
  Mr. COTTON. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from South Carolina (Mr. Graham).
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker), 
the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich), the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez), and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) are 
necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 79, nays 16, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 251 Ex.]

                                YEAS--79

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Franken
     Gardner
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCain
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Udall
     Warner
     Wicker
     Young

[[Page S6836]]


  


                                NAYS--16

     Blumenthal
     Cortez Masto
     Duckworth
     Feinstein
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hirono
     Markey
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Stabenow
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--5

     Booker
     Graham
     Heinrich
     Menendez
     Whitehouse
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



