

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7170-S7176]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 F_____
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the previous order, the 
Senate will proceed to executive session and resume consideration of 
the Kan nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Derek 
Kan, of California, to be Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Democratic leader is recognized.


                        President's Trip to Asia

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I am going to spend the bulk of my time 
this afternoon focusing on the tax plan, but first I must address 
President Trump's trip to Asia.
  Without exaggeration, the President's trip to Asia has been one of 
the most embarrassing foreign trips a President has taken in my memory. 
It shows when it comes to foreign policy, President Trump is not ready 
for prime time.
  After a campaign in which he routinely criticized China--rightly, in 
my opinion--for rapacious trading practices that have stolen American 
jobs and depressed American wages, President Trump went to China and 
gave them a get-out-of-jail-free card. Instead of speaking sternly and 
truthfully to the Chinese leaders about the realities of our unbalanced 
and unfair trade system--where we play by the rules, and they do not; 
we lose jobs, they gain them--President Trump tried to appease the 
Chinese and their leader.
  Instead of demanding concessions on trade, instead of demanding the 
same equal access to markets we provide Chinese firms, instead of 
addressing the sordid history of intellectual property theft and 
extortion, President Trump was eager to let China off the hook, saying 
it was ``not their fault'' but rather the failure of American 
Presidents. Imagine blaming America for the Chinese trade imbalance and 
letting China get off scot-free. Is that putting America first?
  President Xi flattered President Trump, and he fell for it hook, 
line, and sinker. From each of his interactions with President Xi, 
President Trump has only gotten flattery, pomp, and circumstance but 
nothing for the American worker--nothing.
  If he keeps this approach up with a growing economic power like 
China, President Trump will be the author of a new international 
reality: America second.
  Concerning the situation on the Korean Peninsula, instead of working 
toward a new meaningful understanding of how to best deal with North 
Korea, President Trump traded petty barbs with the President of North 
Korea on Twitter. Close your eyes for a moment and imagine if this was 
the way Roosevelt behaved toward Stalin or Eisenhower toward Khrushchev 
or Kennedy toward Castro. This is below the dignity of the Office of 
President of the United States, and it erodes America's power in the 
world.
  Worst of all, again, President Trump seemed to instinctively accept 
the word of President Putin against 17 U.S. intelligence agencies about 
whether Russia interfered in our election. We know that Russia 
interfered with our elections. Our entire intelligence community--17 
agencies--has concluded it. Why does President Trump continue to give 
President Putin the benefit of the doubt while discrediting and 
demeaning American intelligence officers? It is shameful, unpatriotic--
deeply unpatriotic--and he only halfheartedly walked back his comment 
after the fact. Every American should wonder why President Trump goes 
to such great lengths to avoid criticizing President Putin.
  After 8 years of Republicans questioning President Obama's toughness 
with foreign leaders--an attack that I give no credence to by 
repeating--it seems that President Trump, not President Obama, is the 
one who is afraid to take on America's adversaries. He forgives China 
and cozies up to President Putin.
  For the steelworker in Ohio or in Upstate New York whose job is on 
the line

[[Page S7171]]

because China is dumping cheap steel and aluminum into our markets, 
that is not good enough. For every American concerned about the 
sanctity of our elections, that is not good enough. When it comes to 
standing up for the needs of the American worker, for American firms, 
and for American consumers, when it comes to standing up for American 
democracy, this President needs to wake up and toughen up.


                          Republican Tax Plan

  Madam President, now on taxes. Today the Finance Committee will begin 
to mark up the Senate Republican tax plan. The bill put forward by the 
chairman will not contain the ideas of a single Democrat in the Senate. 
It is the result of not a single negotiation between our two parties. 
It has been discussed in exactly zero hearings, its merits weighed by 
exactly zero expert witnesses.
  Rather, the tax bill is one party's backroom deliberations, and 
though it will affect nearly every person and industry in the country, 
it is being rushed through committee and may come to the floor of the 
Senate in a matter of weeks.
  The Republican leadership is making a mockery of the legislative 
process, a mockery of regular order, and the reason for such reckless 
haste is all too obvious. The product is a wretched one.
  If Republicans had crafted a popular bill that could get bipartisan 
support, they would have announced it with great fanfare and fanned out 
all over the country to champion it. Instead, it is being rushed 
through with hardly any consideration because my Republican friends 
know from their experience with healthcare that the longer an unpopular 
idea is left out in the open, the more it would fester in the public's 
mind.
  That is what will happen with this tax bill because of one simple 
reason: It is focused on the wealthy to the exclusion of the middle 
class. While big corporations and wealthy individuals get lower rates 
and new permanent loopholes, the middle class gets benefits that 
expire. Corporations will be able to continue to deduct their State and 
local taxes while individual taxpayers will not. Wealthy estates worth 
over $5 million are ensured a massive tax break while millions of 
middle-class families lose their popular deductions like the personal 
exemption.

  That is why, according to an analysis by the New York Times, under 
the House Republican bill, nearly one-third of all middle-class 
taxpayers will see a tax hike next year. Let me repeat that. Under the 
House Republican bill, nearly one-third of all middle-class taxpayers 
will see a tax hike next year, and almost half of middle-class 
taxpayers will see a hike in 10 years.
  According to a JCT analysis of the Senate Republican bill, of all the 
taxpayers making less than $200,000 a year, 13 million will see a tax 
hike next year in 2019, and nearly 20 million Americans will see a tax 
hike by 2027. Another 64 million Americans making under $200,000 a year 
will see no change in their taxes. Meanwhile, everyone at the very top, 
the top 1 percent, will see tax cuts of tens of thousands of dollars. 
One hundred times more money would go to a family earning $1 million a 
year as a family making between $40,000 and $50,000.
  Now, let me ask you, who needs the tax break more, the family making 
$50,000 or the family making $1 million? God bless the wealthy. So many 
of them worked hard to achieve great wealth. Good, but they don't need 
a tax break; middle-class people do.
  Now President Trump is suggesting Republicans tip the scales even 
more in favor of the rich by repealing the individual mandate to pay 
for more tax cuts for the rich.
  Here is what he tweeted. I find this hard to believe. How out of 
touch can the President be with the American people?

       How about ending the unfair and highly unpopular 
     Indiv[idual] Mandate . . . & reducing taxes even further? Cut 
     top rate to 35% w/all of the rest going to middle [class] 
     income cuts.

  What does the proposal do? It sends premiums, healthcare premiums, 
for millions of middle-class Americans skyrocketing, all so that the 
wealthy--the top bracket--can get even bigger tax breaks than they get 
under the original Republican plan. The middle class only gets the 
leftovers, if there are any at all.
  Sooner or later, even President Trump's core supporters will realize 
that he is selling them out. That is why most polls show that less than 
one-third of Americans support the Republican tax plan, and a majority 
actually oppose it. That is an astounding fact.
  Tax cuts are historically popular. Somehow Republicans have managed 
to make a tax cut bill politically unpopular, again, for a 
straightforward reason. On balance, the tax cut is for big corporations 
and a tiny group of wealthy Americans while millions in the middle 
class pay more to help finance it. To make tax cuts unpopular is quite 
a feat. I would urge my Republican colleagues not to fall for the bait.
  There is broad agreement on the goals of tax reform between our two 
parties. We all want to lower middle-class taxes. We all want to reduce 
the burden on small businesses and encourage companies to locate jobs 
here in the United States instead of shipping them overseas. We could 
put a tax bill together that does those things. This bill doesn't.
  I know many of my Republican colleagues are concerned about the 
deficit. They are worried about the one-party legislative ramrodding 
that is eroding the grand traditions of this body, and they are afraid 
of passing a tax bill that raises taxes on millions of working 
Americans in their States.
  So I say to my Republican friends: Hit the brakes on this bill. Come 
back to the table. We can work on a real bipartisan tax reform bill 
that delivers middle-class tax relief but only--only--if you defeat 
this bill first.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Vermont.
  Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, what is the parliamentary situation?
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senate is considering the Kan 
nomination.
  Mr. LEAHY. I thank the distinguished Acting President pro tempore.


                          Russia Investigation

  Madam President, over the past 10 months, the Attorney General has 
testified before the Senate on three occasions about his knowledge of 
and contacts with Russian operatives. He also answered written 
questions and provided additional supplemental testimony, but he still 
has not gotten his story straight. On numerous occasions, new 
disclosures of his communications involving Russia have raised serious 
doubts about his testimony, and not one of these disclosures has come 
from the Attorney General; all have come from the press or unsealed 
court records. That is a problem.
  This started in January. At his nomination hearing, both Senator 
Franken and I asked him about contacts with Russian officials. I asked 
him in writing whether he had been in contact with anyone connected to 
the Russian Government about the 2016 election. It was not a tricky or 
surprising question. Other Trump officials' undisclosed contacts with 
Russians, like those of Michael Flynn or Jared Kushner, were major 
headlines at the time. Under oath, then-Senator Sessions answered with 
a single word, ``no.'' We soon learned that the answer was ``yes''--
just the opposite.
  In March, the Washington Post reported that Sessions met with Russian 
Ambassador Kislyak on two occasions during the height of the 2016 
campaign. Days later, the Attorney General was forced to recuse himself 
from the Russia investigation. In June, the press reported on a third 
undisclosed contact. In July, despite the Attorney General's previous 
assertions that he never discussed the campaign with Russian officials, 
U.S. intelligence intercepts reportedly revealed that he had done just 
that--discussing the campaign and its positions on Russia-related 
issues with the Russian Ambassador. When I asked the Attorney General 
about this report in the Judiciary Committee last month, his testimony 
shifted yet again; he acknowledged that it was ``possible'' he had 
those conversations. That flatly contradicts his testimony to me in 
January.
  The disclosures show no sign of stopping. Two weeks ago, unsealed 
court records revealed additional Russian connections that were 
discussed during a Trump campaign meeting in March 2016. Then-Senator 
Sessions reportedly admonished those in attendance to not discuss the 
issue again out of fear it

[[Page S7172]]

would leak to the press. Just last week, another foreign policy 
campaign aide testified that he informed Sessions of his planned trip 
to Russia in July 2016. Once again, the descriptions of these 
communications are impossible to reconcile with the Attorney General's 
testimony, in which he claimed under oath that he was not aware of any 
contact between the Trump campaign and Russian officials.
  The notion that the Attorney General is just forgetful is simply not 
believable. Potential Russian involvement in our elections was a major 
story at the time. In July 2016, then-candidate Trump encouraged Russia 
to commit espionage against his political opponent, Hillary Clinton, by 
stealing her emails. That same week then-Senator Sessions told CNN that 
``people come up to [him] all the time'' to talk about Russia hacking 
Hillary Clinton's emails. Exactly who were all these people talking to 
him about Russia hacking Hillary Clinton's emails? And should he have 
disclosed any of these conversations to the Judiciary Committee? We do 
not yet know. Senator Durbin recently asked him this in a written 
question, and we look forward to his response.
  I want another point to be clear: I have never accused the Attorney 
General of colluding with Russia, and I am not doing so now. But it is 
clear that the Kremlin tested the waters with then-Senator Sessions, as 
it did with so many other Trump campaign officials. It is equally clear 
that the Attorney General concealed his own contacts with Russian 
officials, and he has failed to correct the record even when given 
multiple opportunities to do so. I agree with Senators Graham, Franken, 
and others that he needs to come back once again to testify before the 
Senate Judiciary Committee. It is time we hear the whole story.
  An important part of that story is what the Attorney General did on 
May 9, the day President Trump fired FBI Director James Comey. To 
justify the dismissal, the President cited a Justice Department 
memorandum signed off by Attorney General Sessions. The memo attempted 
to justify firing Director Comey because he treated Hillary Clinton 
unfairly during the email investigation. We later learned there was an 
earlier, unsent letter that pointed to President Trump's true 
motivation for firing Director Comey: the Russia investigation. The day 
before the dismissal, the Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General 
were reportedly called into the White House to discuss the earlier 
letter. The next day, May 9, they delivered their own hastily drafted 
memo that provided the alternative justification for firing Director 
Comey.
  Here is the problem: The May 9 memo was a facade. It was a pretext. 
The White House needed to point to anything other than Russia to 
justify dismissing Director Comey, and the Attorney General obliged, 
but the President could not keep the secret. The very next morning, he 
boasted to Russian officials visiting the Oval Office that firing 
Director Comey took great pressure off of him from the Russia 
investigation. Two days later, on national television, the President 
made clear what we all knew: He fired the lead Russia investigator due 
to concerns over how he was handling the Russia investigation.
  Here is another problem: Firing an investigator in order to stymie a 
legitimate investigation is a crime--it is called obstruction of 
justice. Whether there is sufficient evidence to merit a charge of 
obstruction against the President will likely be revealed by Special 
Counsel Mueller. If so, the Attorney General may have to admit the May 
9 memo that he approved was nothing but a smokescreen--an attempt to 
mask an uncomfortable truth and excuse the inexcusable. Prosecutors do 
not look kindly upon those who aid others in covering up crimes.
  For many years, I sat with Senator Sessions on the Judiciary 
Committee. We disagreed on many policy issues, but I never questioned 
his commitment to the rule of law. I do question this President's 
commitment to the rule of law. This month alone, President Trump 
repeatedly directed the Justice Department to target his political 
opponents and chase his conspiracy theories. This is a President who 
needs to be told ``no.'' May 9 was one of those moments. I am greatly 
disappointed that Attorney General Sessions was not up to the task. 
This is a solemn obligation that goes to the heart of what it means to 
be Attorney General: ensuring that no person, not even a President, is 
above the law. He is not a ``Secretary of Justice,'' serving the 
President blindly and covering his flaws. He is the Attorney General of 
the United States, serving the American people. I fear Attorney General 
Sessions has lost sight of this distinction.
  We are in the midst of perhaps the most serious national security 
investigation of our time. A foreign adversary attacked our democracy 
and our elections. We know that Russia will be back. If we are serious 
about preventing the next attack, we must know what happened during the 
last. The American people deserve answers--no more obfuscation, no more 
falsehoods. This starts with the Attorney General returning to the 
Senate Judiciary Committee to explain, in person, under oath, why he 
has not provided truthful, complete answers to some of the most 
pressing questions facing our Nation today.
  Madam President, I yield to the Senator from Minnesota, a Senator who 
has been relentless in asking these questions. I ask unanimous consent 
that he be given such time as he needs.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  The Senator from Minnesota.
  Mr. FRANKEN. Madam President, I thank Senator Leahy, my good friend.
  New developments in the ongoing investigation into Russian 
interference in the election have, once again, raised concerns about 
the accuracy of statements made by Attorney General Jeff Sessions 
during his appearance before the Senate. In light of the Attorney 
General's failure to tell the truth about not just his own interactions 
with Russian operatives, but also the extent to which he knew about 
Russian contacts by other members of the Trump campaign team, I call 
upon Attorney General Sessions to return to the Senate Judiciary 
Committee and provide us with a complete and accurate accounting of the 
facts.
  There is no question that Russia--a hostile foreign power--meddled in 
our election. Russia carried out this attack in order to undermine 
confidence in American democracy, to damage Hillary Clinton's campaign 
for President, and to help Donald Trump. Our intelligence agencies have 
confirmed this to be true. But in order to keep our country safe and 
prevent an attack like this from happening again, the American people 
need to understand what happened, including whether members of the 
Trump campaign either participated in the Russian operation or turned a 
blind eye to it. We need to get to the bottom of this, and to do that, 
we need to know the truth.
  Regrettably, Attorney General Sessions, our Nation's chief law 
enforcement officer, seems to have a real problem telling the truth 
about both his own interactions with Russians and those of the larger 
Trump campaign team. At his confirmation hearing in January, when I 
referenced a breaking report from CNN that there had been a 
``continuing exchange of information during the campaign between 
Trump's surrogates and intermediaries for the Russian government,'' I 
asked him, ``If there is any evidence that anyone affiliated with the 
Trump campaign communicated with the Russian government in the course 
of this campaign, what will you do?'' This was a simple, 
straightforward question: ``What will you do?'' The implication was, 
would you recuse yourself? But rather than answer that question, then-
Senator Sessions said: ``I didn't have--did not have communications 
with the Russians.'' That, of course, was not true. It was later 
revealed that Attorney General Sessions had met with the Russian 
Ambassador at least three times during the campaign. Only after two of 
those meetings were uncovered and disclosed--7 weeks later--did 
Attorney General Sessions announce his recusal from the Russia 
investigation.
  After he was confronted with the truth, the Attorney General began to 
subtly change his story. His first answer, under oath before the 
Judiciary Committee in January, was that he ``did not have 
communications with the Russians.'' But after his meetings with the 
Russian Ambassador were exposed, Attorney General Sessions began to 
qualify his explanations. In a

[[Page S7173]]

statement issued on March 2, the day after his Russian contacts were 
revealed, he said: ``I never met with any Russian officials to discuss 
issues of the campaign.'' But in July, the Washington Post published a 
report suggesting that the Attorney General did discuss campaign issues 
with the Russian Ambassador. According to the report, American 
intelligence agencies intercepted communications between the Russian 
Ambassador and the Kremlin in which the Ambassador described his 
conversations with then-Senator Sessions. The two men reportedly talked 
about substantive policy matters, including campaign-related issues.
  In response to this report, the Justice Department issued a statement 
stating that Attorney General Sessions stood by his testimony and again 
claimed that the Attorney General did not discuss ``interference with 
any campaign or election.''
  Each and every time new information comes to light about the Attorney 
General's contacts with the Russians, he has responded not by coming 
clean and admitting that his initial testimony was inaccurate but by 
shifting his story and moving the goalposts. The truth has a nasty 
habit of catching up with Attorney General Sessions.
  Recently, unsealed court documents revealed that in early October, 
former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos pled 
guilty to lying to the FBI about his communications with Russian 
operatives during the campaign. The unsealed documents also revealed 
that Mr. Papadopoulos didn't just meet with Russian operatives during 
the campaign, he did so with the express goal of facilitating meetings 
between the Russian Government and other Trump campaign officials, 
including the candidate himself, Donald Trump. According to the court 
documents, Mr. Papadopoulos made no secret of his Russian contacts. He 
described his Russian meetings in emails to senior campaign officials, 
and according to Mr. Papadopoulos, he discussed his Russian contacts 
with then-Senator Sessions directly.
  On March 31, 2016, Mr. Papadopoulos attended a meeting of the Trump 
campaign's National Security Advisory Committee--a group led by 
Attorney General Sessions, who chaired the committee and advised the 
candidate on foreign policy and national security matters. The court 
documents revealed that after Mr. Papadopoulos introduced himself to 
the group, he ``stated, in sum and substance, that he had connections 
that could help arrange a meeting between then-candidate Trump and 
President Putin.'' Mr. Papadopoulos made that pitch while seated two 
seats to the left of Attorney General Sessions. We know that for a fact 
because then-Candidate Trump posted a photo of the meeting on 
Instagram. There is then-Senator Sessions, there is George 
Papadopoulos, and there is then-Candidate Donald Trump.
  After the court documents were unsealed, reports about what happened 
at the March 31 meeting began to emerge. Reportedly, Mr. Papadopoulos 
spoke about facilitating a meeting between the candidate and the 
Russian President for a few minutes. Then-Candidate Trump reportedly 
``listened with interest and asked questions of Mr. Papadopoulos.'' But 
according to an adviser present at the meeting, then-Senator Sessions 
reacted negatively to Mr. Papadopoulos's idea and reportedly ``shut 
[Papadopoulos] down.'' Attorney General Sessions is reported to have 
said: ``We're not going to do it'' and ``I'd prefer that nobody speak 
about this again.'' If those reports are accurate, they would signal 
that then-Senator Sessions reacted quite strongly to the suggestion 
that then-Candidate Trump should meet with President Putin. Such a 
strong reaction suggests that Attorney General Sessions would have 
remembered a conversation like that.
  Mr. Papadopoulos wasn't the only member of the campaign to tell 
Attorney General Sessions about his Russian contacts. Earlier this 
month, Carter Page--yet another former Trump campaign foreign policy 
adviser who is under scrutiny for his Russian contacts--testified to 
the House Intelligence Committee that he told then-Senator Sessions 
about a trip to Russia that Page was going to take in July 2016, where 
he met with Russian officials and state-owned businesses.
  Nonetheless, time and time again, Attorney General Sessions has 
claimed under oath that he was unaware of any communications between 
Russians and members of the Trump campaign.
  During his confirmation hearing in January, when I mentioned reports 
that there was a ``continuing exchange of information during the 
campaign between Trump's surrogates and intermediaries of the Russian 
government,'' the Attorney General said that he was ``not aware of any 
of those activities.''
  My good friend Senator Pat Leahy asked him in writing whether he had 
``been in contact with anyone connected to any part of the Russian 
government about the 2016 election.'' The Attorney General answered, 
simply, ``No.''
  In June, Attorney General Sessions appeared before the Senate 
Intelligence Committee. In his opening statement, he said: ``I have 
never met with or had any conversations with any Russians or any 
foreign officials concerning any type of interference with any campaign 
or election in the United States. Further, I have no knowledge of any 
such conversations by anyone connected to the Trump campaign.''
  Senator Risch asked him: ``Did you hear even a whisper, or a 
suggestion, or anyone making reference within that campaign that 
somehow the Russians were involved in that campaign?'' Attorney General 
Sessions replied: ``I did not.''
  Senator Joe Manchin asked him: ``Are there any other meetings between 
Russian government officials and any other Trump campaign associates 
that have not been previously disclosed that you know of?'' Attorney 
General Sessions said that he did not recall any such meetings.
  Senator Kamala Harris asked him: ``Are you aware of any 
communications with other Trump campaign officials and associates that 
they had with Russian officials or any Russian nationals?'' Attorney 
General Sessions replied: ``I don't recall that.''
  Just last month, during the Attorney General's most recent appearance 
before the Judiciary Committee, Senator Lindsey Graham asked him: ``Did 
anybody in the campaign--did you ever overhear a conversation between 
you and anybody on the campaign who talked about meeting with the 
Russians?'' This time, Attorney General Sessions replied quite 
carefully. He said: ``I have not seen anything that would indicate 
collusion with Russians to impact the campaign.''
  But when I asked him to clarify his shifting explanations for his own 
interactions with the Russian Ambassador, Attorney General Sessions 
said that when he first heard about reports of a ``continuing exchange 
of information'' between Russians and the Trump campaign, that he was 
``taken aback by this dramatic statement that I'd never heard before 
and knew nothing about.'' He said that ``a continuing exchange of 
information between Trump's surrogates and intermediaries for the 
Russian government . . . did not happen, at least not to my knowledge, 
and not with me.''

  Describing his January testimony, he said:

       [A]nd I said, I'm not aware of those activities. And I 
     wasn't, and am not. I don't believe they occurred.

  Setting aside the convenient amnesia that Attorney General Sessions 
seems to experience when asked about his own interactions with Russians 
or those he witnessed, I find it disturbing that he went so far as to 
claim, as recently as October of this year, that he didn't believe that 
any meetings between Trump associates and Russians ever occurred.
  Just think about the Trump campaign members we know to have met with 
Russians from publicly available information: Carter Page, former 
campaign adviser; Paul Manafort, former campaign manager and chief 
strategist; Michael Flynn, the disgraced former National Security 
Advisor, who in 2015 spoke at a party honoring Russia's state-owned 
television network, where he sat next to Vladimir Putin; Jared Kushner, 
White House senior adviser and son-in-law; and Donald Trump, Jr., the 
President's son. Each and every one of these former members of the 
Trump campaign have had unusual contacts with the Russians.
  Nonetheless, just last month the Attorney General said:

       I'm not aware of those activities. And I wasn't, and am 
     not. I don't believe they occurred.


[[Page S7174]]


  I wanted to say to Attorney General Sessions: Listen, I understand 
that you are recused from the Russia investigation, but do you think 
that means you are not allowed to watch the news or read a newspaper? 
My God, what is going on here?
  It is clear that Attorney General Sessions has an ongoing difficulty 
remembering his own interactions with Russians and the extent to which 
he knew about Russian contacts with other members of the Trump 
campaign. As the record demonstrates, Attorney General Sessions has 
misrepresented the truth about those contacts to Members of this body 
time and time again. The interference by a hostile power in our 
Nation's elections represents an attack on democracy itself, and the 
inability of our Nation's top law enforcement official to speak with a 
clear and consistent voice about what he knows of the Russian operation 
is disturbing.
  Tomorrow morning, the Attorney General will appear before the House 
Judiciary Committee, where I am confident he will once again face 
questions about this issue. It is my hope that this time Attorney 
General Sessions will answer those questions honestly, but in light of 
his misrepresentations to Members of this body, Attorney General 
Sessions has an obligation to return to the Senate and explain himself.
  Getting to the bottom of Russia's interference in the 2016 election 
is a matter of national security, and Attorney General Sessions owes 
the American people an explanation about what he knows. He needs to 
return to the Senate Judiciary Committee to set the record straight.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Iowa.


                           Blue-Slip Courtesy

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, in the last several weeks, there has 
been a lot of discussion regarding the blue-slip courtesy that applies 
to judicial nominations. I want to take a moment to clarify a few 
things. My position hasn't changed. Like I said in November of last 
year, I intend to honor the blue-slip courtesy, but there have always 
been exceptions.
  First, the blue slip has always been a Senatorial courtesy. It is 
premised on the idea that home State Senators are in a very good 
position to provide insights into a nominee from their State for the 
Federal judiciary. It is meant to encourage consultation between the 
White House and home State Senators about judicial nominations. That is 
why I value the blue-slip tradition and ask for the views of Senators 
on all nominees to courts from their respective States.
  Throughout its history, the many chairmen of the Senate Judiciary 
Committee have applied this blue-slip courtesy differently. That is a 
chairman's prerogative. The chairman has the authority to decide how to 
apply the courtesy. Over the past 100 years, there have been 18 
chairmen of the Senate Judiciary Committee who recognized the value of 
the blue-slip courtesy, but only 2 out of these 18 chairmen required 
both Senators to return positive blue slips before scheduling a 
hearing.
  The practice of sending out blue slips to home State Senators started 
100 years ago, in 1917. Chairman Charles Culberson started the blue-
slip practice to solicit the opinions of home State Senators, but he 
did not require the return of two positive blue slips before the 
committee would proceed on a nominee. In fact, in the blue slip's very 
first year, Chairman Culberson held a hearing and a vote for a nominee 
who received a negative blue slip. His successors over the next nearly 
40 years had the same policy. It was not until 1956 that the blue-slip 
policy changed under Chairman James Eastland, a Democrat from the State 
of Mississippi. Chairman Eastland began to require both home State 
Senators to return positive blue slips before holding a hearing and a 
vote.
  Chairman Eastland, as history tells us, was well known for his 
segregationist views. Unfortunately, it is likely that he adopted a 
strict blue-slip policy to veto judicial nominees who favored school 
desegregation. This is what Villanova Law School Professor Tuan Samahon 
explained: ``When segregationist `Dixiecrat' Senator John Eastland 
chaired the Judiciary Committee, he endowed the blue slip with veto 
power to, among other things, keep Mississippi's federal judicial 
branch free of sympathizers with Brown v. Board of Education.''
  After Chairman Eastland retired in 1979, Senator Kennedy became 
chairman. He got rid of Senator Eastland's policy. He didn't want a 
single Senator to be able to unilaterally veto a judicial nominee. 
Senator Kennedy's policy was that an unreturned or negative blue slip 
wouldn't prevent the committee from conducting a hearing on a nominee. 
Then along comes Senator Strom Thurmond, continuing this policy when he 
became chairman. So did Senator Joe Biden. So did Senator Orrin Hatch. 
Each of those chairmen allowed hearings for nominees who had negative 
or unreturned blue slips.
  In 1989, Chairman Biden sent a letter to the White House articulating 
his blue-slip policy. This is what Chairman Biden wrote: ``The return 
of a negative blue slip will be a significant factor to be weighed by 
the committee in its evaluation of a judicial nominee, but it will not 
preclude consideration of that nominee unless the Administration has 
not consulted with both home State Senators prior to submitting the 
nomination to the Senate.''
  Obviously, chairmen from both parties saw the danger of allowing one 
or two Senators to veto a nominee for political or ideological reasons. 
My predecessor, Chairman Leahy, reinstated Chairman Eastland's strict 
blue-slip policy. Some believe he did so in order to exert firmer 
control over the new Bush administration nominees, but even he said he 
wouldn't stand for Senators abusing the blue slip to delay or block 
nominees. Chairman Leahy said the blue-slip courtesy was ``meant to 
ensure that the home state Senators who know the needs of the courts in 
their state best are consulted and have the opportunity to make sure 
that the nominees are qualified'' and should not be ``abused simply to 
delay [the Committee's] ability to make progress filling vacancies.''
  Chairman Leahy also said:

       I assume no one will abuse the blue-slip process like some 
     have abused the use of the filibuster to block judicial 
     nominees on the floor of the Senate. As long as the blue-slip 
     process is not being abused by home-state Senators, then I 
     will see no reason to change that tradition.

  As I have said all along, I will not allow the blue slip to be 
abused. I will not allow Senators to block nominees for political or 
ideological reasons. This position is consistent with the historical 
role of the blue-slip courtesy. It also matches my personal experience 
with the blue slip.
  I am going to tell you about a personal experience I had when I first 
came to the U.S. Senate. In my first year in the Senate, a vacancy 
arose on the Eighth Circuit. At the time, I served with a Republican, 
my senior Senator from Iowa, Roger Jepsen, and we had a Republican 
President, Ronald Reagan. Senator Jepsen and I thought the nominee 
should be a State judge from Des Moines so we recommended his name to 
the White House--not like we do now in Iowa, submit two or three names, 
four names sometimes, for the President to pick from. In 1981, the 
White House decided they would like to consider another name for the 
vacancy. The other individual, Judge Fagg, was a State court judge in 
Iowa. The White House interviewed the judge who was supported by both 
Senator Grassley and Senator Jepsen along with having interviewed this 
other nominee.

  President Reagan, ultimately, nominated the other nominee for the 
vacancy. He was not the person Senator Jepsen and I recommended, but 
the White House thought that he was better suited to the circuit court, 
and that ended up being the correct decision. Judge Fagg served with 
great distinction for more than two decades. Even though he was not our 
pick, Senator Jepsen and I returned our blue slips on the nominee. That 
was not unusual as more deference has always been given to the White 
House, particularly for circuit court nominees, which is different from 
district court nominees.
  When Judge Fagg was nominated to the Eighth Circuit, both Senators 
from Iowa were Republicans, and the blue slip practice did not change 
when Senator Harkin, a Democrat, was elected to the Senate, succeeding 
Senator Jepsen.
  Senator Harkin and I served together for 30 years, and we did not 
have any problems with judicial nominees. Generally, when there was a 
Republican

[[Page S7175]]

President, I sent a list of names to the President, and when there was 
a Democratic President, Senator Harkin sent a list of names to the 
White House. We served together for those 30 years and never had any 
problems with blue slips, not once.
  During the Clinton administration, a vacancy arose on the Eighth 
Circuit. The White House nominated Bonnie Campbell for the court. Ms. 
Campbell was originally from New York and had previously worked for two 
Democratic Senators. For 6 years, she served as chairwoman of the Iowa 
Democratic Party. Ms. Campbell was elected as Iowa's attorney general 
after having defeated the Republican candidate. She also ran for 
Governor against Gov. Terry Branstad. After she lost that election, she 
was appointed by President Clinton to a position within the Department 
of Justice.
  It happens that I liked Ms. Campbell very much. She was not the type 
of nominee I would have picked for the court, but that did not stop me 
from returning my blue slip.
  Ms. Campbell was a controversial nominee. During the campaign for 
Governor, she was quoted discussing Christian conservatives. She said: 
``I hate to call them Christian because I am Christian, and I hate to 
call them religious, because they're not, so I'll call them the radical 
right.''
  Ms. Campbell had a very liberal record and had spent most of her 
career as a politician, and a lot of people did not want me to return 
her blue slip. So why did I return her blue slip? In the process, I was 
criticized extensively by the conservative base of my State of Iowa.
  I did that because the blue slip is not supposed to allow the 
unilateral veto of a nominee. A Senator cannot use a blue slip to block 
a nominee simply because he or she does not like the nominee's politics 
or ideology. A Senator cannot use a blue slip to block a nominee 
because it is not the person the Senator would have picked.
  The President gets to nominate judges. The White House should consult 
home State Senators, and it is important that they do so in a 
meaningful way. The White House may disagree with Senators and may 
determine that a different individual is more suited to serve on the 
circuit court, but so long as there is consultation, the President 
generally gets to make that call. So I will not let Senators abuse the 
blue slip to block qualified nominees for political or ideological 
reasons.
  I yield the floor.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I rise today to highlight the 
importance of the Gateway Project and express my continued frustration 
with the administration's approach to infrastructure and this critical 
project. The current Hudson River tunnels were built in 1908 and are 
rapidly deteriorating, a problem that was made far worse by Hurricane 
Sandy. Time is running out, and we must quickly build new tunnels under 
the Hudson River before the current tunnels have to be closed for 
repairs.
  The closing of either tunnel without a new tunnel in place would be 
devastating because it would essentially shut down the Northeast 
Corridor, the transit route from Boston to Washington that produces 
over $3 trillion in economic output, a full 20 percent of the national 
gross domestic product. The importance of this project cannot be 
overstated.
  Unfortunately, despite repeated campaign promises to focus on 
infrastructure investment, President Trump has proposed severe cuts to 
infrastructure programs, including the Capital Investment Grant 
Program. That cut is significant because it was the likely source of 
funding for the Gateway groject. In addition to proposing to cut the 
funding needed for the Gateway Project, the Department of 
Transportation has been unresponsive to a number of important interim 
actions that are necessary to advance this critical project.
  Given the lack of focus on infrastructure investment by the current 
administration and the continued roadblocks the administration has 
erected in front of the Gateway Project, I must oppose the nomination 
of Mr. Derek Kan to be Under Secretary of Transportation.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Kan 
nomination?
  Mr. ALEXANDER. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven).
  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. 
Hoeven) would have voted ``yea.''
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) 
and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) are necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Moran). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 90, nays 7, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 270 Ex.]

                                YEAS--90

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Franken
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Harris
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCain
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Stabenow
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--7

     Gillibrand
     Merkley
     Sanders
     Schumer
     Udall
     Warren
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Booker
     Hoeven
     Menendez
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from South Dakota.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that with respect 
to the Kan nomination, the motion to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table and the President be immediately notified of the 
Senate's action.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.


                             Cloture Motion

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays before 
the Senate the pending cloture motion, which the clerk will state.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the nomination 
     of Steven Gill Bradbury, of Virginia, to be General Counsel 
     for the Department of Transportation.
         Mitch McConnell, John Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Tom Cotton, 
           Cory Gardner, Jerry Moran, John Barrasso, Luther 
           Strange, Mike Crapo, John Cornyn, Richard Burr, Mike 
           Rounds, Orrin G. Hatch, David Perdue, Marco Rubio, John 
           Thune, John Boozman.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unanimous consent, the mandatory quorum 
call has been waived.
  The question is, Is it the sense of the Senate that debate on the 
nomination of Steven Gill Bradbury, of Virginia, to be General Counsel 
of the Department of Transportation, shall be brought to a close?
  The yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven).

[[Page S7176]]

  

  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) 
and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) are necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Daines). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The yeas and nays resulted--yeas 50, nays 47, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 271 Ex.]

                                YEAS--50

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heller
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--47

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Franken
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Hirono
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Markey
     McCain
     McCaskill
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Booker
     Hoeven
     Menendez
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this vote, the yeas are 50, the nays are 
47.
  The motion is agreed to.

                          ____________________



