

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9254]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. RASKIN (for himself and Mr. Jordan):
       H.R. 4382. A bill to maintain the free flow of information 
     to the public by providing conditions for the federally 
     compelled disclosure of information by certain persons 
     connected with the news media; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. BIGGS:
       H.R. 4383. A bill to reform the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. McGovern, Ms. Lee, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, and Mr. Correa):
       H.R. 4384. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide protected status for certain aliens present in 
     the United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. DeLAURO:
       H.R. 4385. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to restrict direct-to-consumer drug advertising; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 4386. A bill to establish a grant program that 
     encourages States to establish subgrant programs that 
     encourage recipients to create, maintain, and improve digital 
     fabrication laboratories, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 4387. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to increase the allocation 
     for rural areas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 4388. A bill to prioritize, in certain substance abuse 
     prevention, treatment, and recovery programs, the treatment 
     and recovery of addicted minors, and individuals responsible 
     for the care of dependent minors who are at risk of entering 
     the foster care system; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 4389. A bill to amend section 428 of the McKinney-
     Vento Homeless Assistance Act to set aside funds for case 
     management services for residents of permanent supportive 
     housing for homeless persons, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE (for himself and Mr. Duffy):
       H.R. 4390. A bill to reauthorize the rural emergency 
     medical service training and equipment assistance program 
     under section 330J of the Public Health Service Act; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. McCOLLUM (for herself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Gutierrez, and 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 4391. A bill to require the Secretary of State to 
     certify that United States funds do not support military 
     detention, interrogation, abuse, or ill-treatment of 
     Palestinian children, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Kustoff of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Courtney, and Ms. Castor of Florida):
       H.R. 4392. A bill to provide that the provision of the 
     Medicare Program: Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment and 
     Ambulatory Surgical Center Payment Systems and Quality 
     Reporting Programs final regulation relating to changes in 
     the payment amount for certain drugs and biologicals 
     purchased under the 340B drug discount program shall have no 
     force or effect, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
       H.R. 4393. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to clarify that employees of the Commission on 
     Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Congressional-
     Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China are to 
     be treated as covered employees for purposes of such Act; to 
     the Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. TITUS:
       H.R. 4394. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to make available a public option for health 
     insurance coverage for individuals residing in an area 
     without a qualified health plan available through an 
     Exchange, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Stivers, 
             Ms. Bass, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. 
             Paulsen, Mr. Gallego, and Mr. Heck):
       H. Res. 620. A resolution strongly condemning the terrorist 
     attack in Mogadishu, Somalia on October 14, 2017, and 
     expressing condolences and sympathies to the victims of the 
     attack and their families; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.

                          ____________________



