

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9815-H9816]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 CONVERSE VETERANS POST OFFICE BUILDING

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 1208) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 9155 Schaefer Road, Converse, Texas, as the 
``Converse Veterans Post Office Building''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1208

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. CONVERSE VETERANS POST OFFICE BUILDING.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 9155 Schaefer Road, Converse, Texas, shall 
     be known and designated as the ``Converse Veterans Post 
     Office Building''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Converse Veterans Post Office 
     Building''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Montana (Mr. Gianforte) and the gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. Demings) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Montana.


                             General Leave

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Montana?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1208, introduced by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Cuellar). The bill names the United States 
Post Office at 9155 Schaefer Road in Converse, Texas, after the 
veterans from Converse. H.R. 1208 honors the veterans of Converse, 
Texas, for their service to this Nation.
  I look forward to hearing more about the brave exploits of the 
Converse veterans from my colleague and the bill's sponsor, 
Representative Henry Cuellar.
  In the meantime, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 1208, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Post 
Office located at 9155 Schaefer Road in Converse, Texas, as the 
Converse Veterans Post Office Building.
  Every day, brave men and women in our military make great sacrifices 
to defend this Nation and protect our freedom. While we can never repay 
them for their service, naming the Converse Post Office in their honor 
is the least we can do.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill and name this post office so 
that we might recognize the selfless service of

[[Page H9816]]

our veterans and honor the sacrifices they have made for this Nation.
  Mr. Speaker, I, too, urge the passage of H.R. 1208, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I would like to make the gentlewoman from 
Florida aware that I have no further speakers, and I am prepared to 
close.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Cuellar).
  Mr. CUELLAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Florida for 
yielding and for her leadership on this issue dealing with veterans.
  I also want to thank my friend from Montana for his leadership in 
support of veterans across the Nation.
  Today, Mr. Speaker, I rise to present H.R. 1208, which will rename 
the post office facility in my district as the Converse Veterans Post 
Office Building.
  Across my district, I have fine men and women of all walks of life 
that have honorably served our country. It is critical that we honor 
their service and their dedication to our Nation.
  Converse alone is home to over 3,000 veterans, according to the U.S. 
Census Bureau. Dedicating this post office to our veterans will serve 
as an enduring reminder of the sacrifices that our friends, our 
neighbors, our families have made while serving their country. These 
individuals put country ahead of self, and I am proud to recognize them 
with the dedicating of this post office facility.
  Today, I want to acknowledge one sacrifice from one individual; that 
is an individual from Converse, Texas, a veteran by the name of Quintin 
E. Cain. Mr. Cain served 23 years in the Army as a medic, where he 
would receive numerous medals and recognitions.
  After being honorably discharged, he continued to serve the country, 
his country, by using the medical training that he had to train combat 
medic students as a civilian. We owe our freedom to veterans such as 
Mr. Cain, which is why I am recognizing him and, of course, the other 
veterans, by dedicating this post office. He is just one example of 
many veterans who have made countless sacrifices for their country in 
the face of danger.
  The bravery and the commitment of our veterans to our Nation 
demonstrates what it really means to be an American, the essence of 
being an American.
  I would also like to take a moment to thank the veterans 
organizations throughout my district for their tireless work in 
providing care to our veterans when they need it. There are good men 
and women who work hard and provide that care to our veterans. Let us 
remember and express gratitude to these courageous people, the 
veterans, their families, as well as their care providers.
  In the words of President John F. Kennedy, when he said, ``A nation 
reveals itself not only by the men it produces, but also by the men it 
honors and the men it remembers''--and I would like to add, and women 
also--correct President John F. Kennedy.
  This bill allows us to show our appreciation for the veterans, the 
men and women of Converse, Texas, and across the Nation, and make sure 
that their service and sacrifice to our country is not forgotten.
  Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Montana (Mr. Gianforte) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1208.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



