

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8168-H8171]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  IRAN BALLISTIC MISSILES AND INTERNATIONAL SANCTIONS ENFORCEMENT ACT

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 1698) to expand sanctions against Iran with respect 
to the ballistic missile program of Iran, and for other purposes, as 
amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows

                               H.R. 1698

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Iran Ballistic Missiles and 
     International Sanctions Enforcement Act''.

     SEC. 2. SANCTIONS RELATING TO EFFORTS BY THE GOVERNMENT OF 
                   IRAN WITH RESPECT TO BALLISTIC MISSILE-RELATED 
                   GOODS, SERVICES, AND TECHNOLOGIES.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 
     (2015)--
       (A) calls upon Iran ``not to undertake any activity related 
     to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering 
     nuclear weapons, including launches using such ballistic 
     missile technology''; and
       (B) requires member states to ``take the necessary measures 
     to prevent, except as decided otherwise by the UN Security 
     Council in advance on a case-by-case basis, the supply, sale, 
     or transfer of arms or related materiel from Iran''.
       (2) The United States maintains bilateral sanctions against 
     Iran for its efforts to manufacture, acquire, possess, 
     develop, transport, transfer or use ballistic missiles or 
     ballistic missile launch technology, and its acquisition of 
     destabilizing types and amounts of conventional weapons.
       (3) According to the 2016 Worldwide Threat Assessment, the 
     United States intelligence community judges ``that Tehran 
     would choose ballistic missiles as its preferred method of 
     delivering nuclear weapons, if it builds them. Iran's 
     ballistic missiles are inherently capable of delivering 
     [weapons of mass destruction], and Tehran already has the 
     largest inventory of ballistic missiles in the Middle East. 
     Iran's progress on space launch vehicles--along with its 
     desire to deter the United States and its allies--provides 
     Tehran with the means and motivation to develop longer-range 
     missiles, including ICBMs.''.
       (4) Since the passage of United Nations Security Council 
     2231, Iran has conducted numerous tests of ballistic missiles 
     designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons, and has 
     acquired destabilizing types of conventional weapons.
       (5) Iran has pursued the ability to indigenously produce 
     ballistic missile and cruise missile goods, services, and 
     technologies.
       (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United 
     States to prevent Iran from undertaking any activity related 
     to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering 
     nuclear weapons, including launches using such ballistic 
     missile technology.
       (c) Report on Supply Chain of Iran's Ballistic Missile 
     Program.--

[[Page H8169]]

       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report that contains 
     the following:
       (A) An analysis of the foreign supply chain and domestic 
     supply chain in Iran that directly or indirectly 
     significantly facilitates, supports, or otherwise aids the 
     Government of Iran's ballistic missile program.
       (B) A description of the geographic distribution of the 
     foreign and domestic supply chain described in subparagraph 
     (A).
       (C) An assessment of the Government of Iran's ability to 
     indigenously manufacture or otherwise produce the goods, 
     services, or technology necessary to support its ballistic 
     missile program.
       (D) An identification of foreign persons that have, based 
     on credible information, directly or indirectly facilitated 
     or supported the development of the Government of Iran's 
     ballistic missile program, including the foreign and domestic 
     supply chain described in subparagraph (A).
       (E) A determination with respect to each foreign person 
     identified under subparagraph (D) as to whether the foreign 
     person meets the criteria for designation under--
       (i) paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran Sanctions Act 
     of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended 
     by this section;
       (ii) section 104 of the Countering America's Adversaries 
     Through Sanctions Act (Public Law 115-44); or
       (iii) Executive Order 13382 (2005).
       (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Sanctionable Activities With Respect to Weapons of Mass 
     Destruction.--Paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran 
     Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note) is amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``Exports, transfers, and 
     transshipments'' and inserting ``Weapons of mass destruction; 
     ballistic missiles; conventional weapons'';
       (2) by striking ``Except as'' and inserting the following:
       ``(A) Weapons of mass destruction.--Except as'';
       (3) by striking ``(A) on or after the date of the enactment 
     of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 
     2012'' and inserting the following:
       ``(i)(I) on or after the date of the enactment of the Iran 
     Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement 
     Act'';
       (4) by striking ``(B) knew'' and inserting the following:
       ``(II) knew'';
       (5) by striking ``(i) the export'' and inserting the 
     following:

       ``(aa) the export'';

       (6) by striking ``would likely'' and inserting ``may'';
       (7) by striking ``(ii) the export'' and inserting the 
     following:

       ``(bb) the export'';

       (8) by striking ``(I) acquire'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(AA) acquire'';
       (9) by striking ``; or'' at the end of subparagraph 
     (A)(ii)(II)(bb)(AA) (as so redesignated);
       (10) by inserting after subparagraph (A)(ii)(II)(bb)(AA) 
     (as so redesignated) the following:
       ``(BB) acquire or develop ballistic missiles or ballistic 
     missile launch technologies; or'';
       (11) by striking ``(II) acquire'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(CC) acquire'';
       (12) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph 
     (A)(ii)(II)(bb)(CC) (as so redesignated) and inserting ``; 
     or''; and
       (13) by adding at the end of subparagraph (A) the 
     following:
       ``(ii) knowingly exports or transfers, or permits or 
     otherwise facilitates the transshipment or re-export of, 
     goods, services, technology, or other items to Iran that 
     materially supports Iran's efforts to--

       ``(I) acquire or develop ballistic missiles or ballistic 
     missile launch technologies; or
       ``(II) acquire or develop destabilizing numbers and types 
     of advanced conventional weapons (as such term is defined in 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1608 of the Iran-Iraq Arms 
     Non-Proliferation Act of 1992).''.

       (e) Sanctionable Activities With Respect to Ballistic 
     Missiles.--Paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran 
     Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note), as amended by subsection (e), is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(B) Additional ballistic missile-related goods, services, 
     and technology.--
       ``(i) Additional authority.--The President shall impose the 
     sanctions described in paragraph (8), (10), or (12) of 
     section 6(a), as the case may be, with respect to--

       ``(I) an agency or instrumentality of the Government of 
     Iran if the President determines that the agency or 
     instrumentality, on or after the date of the enactment of 
     this subparagraph, knowingly seeks to develop, procure, or 
     acquire goods, services, or technology that materially 
     supports efforts by the Government of Iran with respect to 
     ballistic missile-related goods, services, and technologies 
     as described in clause (iii);
       ``(II) a foreign person or an agency or instrumentality of 
     a foreign state if the President determines that the person 
     or agency or instrumentality knowingly, on or after the date 
     of the enactment of this paragraph, provides significant 
     material support to the Government of Iran that supports 
     efforts by the Government of Iran with respect to ballistic 
     missile-related goods, services, and technologies as 
     described in clause (iii); and
       ``(III) a foreign person that the President determines 
     knowingly engages in a significant transaction or 
     transactions with, or provides significant financial services 
     for, a foreign person or an agency or instrumentality of a 
     foreign state described in subclause (I) or (II) with respect 
     to ballistic missile-related goods, services, and 
     technologies as described in clause (iii).

       ``(ii) Determination and report on ballistic missile 
     tests.--

       ``(I) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
     which the President determines that the Government of Iran 
     has conducted a test of a ballistic missile that fails to 
     comply with, violates, or is in defiance of United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015), the President shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     that identifies each senior official of the Government of 
     Iran that the President determines is responsible for 
     ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing the missile 
     test.
       ``(II) Matters to be included.--The report required by 
     subclause (I) should include available information on the 
     ballistic missile or the generic class of ballistic missile 
     or space rocket that was launched; the trajectory, duration, 
     range, and altitude of the missile flight; the duration, 
     range, and altitude of the flight of each stage of the 
     missile; the location of the launch point and impact point; 
     the payload; and other technical information that is 
     available.
       ``(III) Form.--The report required by subclause (I) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a 
     classified annex.

       ``(iii) Efforts by the government of iran with respect to 
     ballistic missile-related goods, services, and technologies 
     described.--

       ``(I) In general.--For purposes of subclauses (I), (II), 
     and (III) of clause (i), and except as provided in subclause 
     (II) of this clause, efforts by the Government of Iran with 
     respect to ballistic missile-related goods, services, and 
     technologies described in this subsection are efforts by the 
     Government of Iran to manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, 
     transport, transfer, test or use ballistic missiles or 
     associated goods, services, or technology by the Government 
     of Iran, including efforts by the Government of Iran to 
     manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, transport, transfer, 
     purchase--

       ``(aa) goods, services, or technology listed on the Missile 
     Technology Control Regime Equipment and Technology Annex of 
     October 8, 2015, and subsequent revisions that have been 
     acquired outside of the Procurement Working Group or not 
     otherwise approved by the United Nations Security Council; or
       ``(bb) goods, services, or technology not described in the 
     matter preceding item (aa) or item (aa) but which 
     nevertheless the President determines would be, if such 
     goods, services, or technology were United States goods, 
     services, or technology, prohibited for export to Iran 
     because of their potential to materially support the 
     development of ballistic missile systems or ballistic missile 
     launch technologies.

       ``(II) Exception.--Subclause (I) shall not apply with 
     respect to efforts by the Government of Iran with respect to 
     ballistic missile-related goods, services, and technologies 
     that have been approved under paragraph 4 of Annex B of 
     United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).

       ``(iv) Procurement working group defined.--In clause 
     (iii)(I), the term `procurement working group' means the 
     Procurement Working Group of the Joint Commission established 
     under Annex IV of the applicable provisions in Annex A of 
     United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       ``(v) Additional report on ballistic missile tests.--

       ``(I) In general.--Not later than January 31 of each 
     calendar year, the President should submit to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report that 
     specifies the number and generic class of ballistic missiles 
     and space rockets launched by Iran during the preceding 
     calendar year and the dates of each missile launch and the 
     type of missile launched on each relevant date. The report 
     should include definitions used for classifying the generic 
     classes of missiles.
       ``(II) Form.--The report required by subclause (I) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.''.

       (f) Sanctionable Activities With Respect to Conventional 
     Weapons.--Paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran Sanctions 
     Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as 
     amended by subsections (e) and (f), is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) Conventional weapons.--The President shall impose the 
     sanctions described in paragraph (8) or (12) of section 6(a), 
     as the case may be, with respect to a foreign person or an 
     agency or instrumentality of a foreign state if the President 
     determines that the person or agency or instrumentality 
     knowingly, on or after the date of the enactment of this 
     paragraph, imports, exports, or re-exports to, into, or from 
     Iran, whether directly or indirectly, any significant arms or 
     related materiel prohibited under paragraph (5) or (6) of 
     Annex B of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 
     (2015).''.
       (g) Exception and Definitions.--Paragraph (1) of section 
     5(b) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 
     50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended by subsections (e), (f), and 
     (g), is further amended by adding at the end the following:

[[Page H8170]]

       ``(D) Exception.--The President may not impose sanctions 
     under subparagraph (B) or (C) with respect to a foreign 
     person or a United States person if the President determines 
     that the person has exercised due diligence in establishing 
     and enforcing official policies, procedures, and controls to 
     ensure that the person does not sell, supply, or transfer to 
     or from Iran materials the sale, supply, or transfer of which 
     would subject a person to the imposition of sanctions under 
     subparagraph (B) or (C), as the case may be, or conduct or 
     facilitate a financial transaction for such a sale, supply, 
     or transfer.
       ``(E) Definitions.--In subparagraphs (B) and (C) of this 
     paragraph:
       ``(i) Agency or instrumentality.--The term `agency or 
     instrumentality' has the meaning given such term in section 
     1603(b) of title 28, United States Code.
       ``(ii) Foreign state.--The term `foreign state' has the 
     meaning given such term in section 1603(a) of title 28, 
     United States Code.
       ``(iii) Government of iran.--The term `Government of Iran' 
     has the meaning given such term in section 560.304 of title 
     31, Code of Federal Regulations, as such section was in 
     effect on January 1, 2016.
       ``(iv) Significant transaction or transactions; significant 
     financial services.--The terms `significant transaction or 
     transactions' and `significant financial services' shall be 
     determined in accordance with section 561.404 of title 31, 
     Code of Federal Regulations, as such section 561.404 was in 
     effect on January 1, 2016.''.
       (h) Sanctions Described.--Section 6(a) of the Iran 
     Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note) is amended--
       (1) by striking paragraph (10) and inserting the following:
       ``(10) Inadmissibility to united states.--
       ``(A) In general.--The President may direct the Secretary 
     of State to deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to exclude from the United States and, if the 
     individual has been issued a visa or other documentation, 
     revoke, in accordance with the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) the visa or other documentation 
     of any alien that--
       ``(i) is designated pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (C) of 
     section 5(b)(1); or
       ``(ii) the President determines is a corporate officer or 
     principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest 
     in, a sanctioned person.
       ``(B) Exception to comply with united nations headquarters 
     agreement.--Sanctions under subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
     to an alien if admitting the alien into the United States is 
     necessary to permit the United States to comply with the 
     Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, 
     signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force 
     November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
     States, or other applicable international obligations.'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (12) as paragraph (13); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (11) the following:
       ``(12) Export sanction.--In the case of an agency or 
     instrumentality of a foreign state, no item on the United 
     States Munitions List or Commerce Munitions List may be 
     exported to that foreign state for a period of two years.''.
       (i) Rule of Construction.--The sanctions that are required 
     to be imposed under this section and the amendments made by 
     this section are in addition to other similar or related 
     sanctions that are required to be imposed under any other 
     provision of law.
       (j) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
     authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 
     and 1704) to carry out any amendments made by this section.
       (k) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 60 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall 
     transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan 
     to implement--
       (1) paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran Sanctions Act 
     of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended 
     by this section; and
       (2) section 104 of the Countering America's Adversaries 
     Through Sanctions Act (Public Law 115-44).
       (l) Effective Date.--
       (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall--
       (A) take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act; 
     and
       (B) apply with respect to an activity described in 
     subsection (b) of section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 
     1996, as amended by this section, that is commenced on or 
     after such date of enactment.
       (2) Applicability to ongoing activities relating to certain 
     activities.--A person that, before the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, commenced an activity described in section 5(b) 
     of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996, as in effect on the day 
     before such date of enactment, and continues the activity on 
     or after such date of enactment, shall be subject to the 
     provisions of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996, as amended by 
     this Act.

     SEC. 3. REPORT ON SANCTIONABLE ACTIVITIES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for 
     a period not to exceed three years, the President shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     that contains the following information:
       (1) Any credible information regarding Iran's attempts to 
     develop, procure, or acquire goods, services, or technology 
     with respect to which sanctions may be imposed pursuant to 
     subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 5(b)(1) of the Iran 
     Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note), as added by section 2 of this Act.
       (2) Any credible information regarding Iran's acquisition 
     or attempted acquisition of significant arms and related 
     material in violation of paragraph 5 of Annex B of United 
     Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (3) Any credible information regarding Iran's export or 
     attempted export of significant arms and related material in 
     violation of paragraph 6 of Annex B of United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (4) Any approval granted by the United Nations Security 
     Council for the export of significant arms and related 
     material identified under paragraphs 5 or 6 of Annex B of 
     United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (5) Any credible information regarding violations of travel 
     restrictions described in paragraph 6 of Annex B of United 
     Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (6) Any approval granted by the United Nations Security 
     Council for exemptions to the travel restrictions described 
     in paragraph 6 of Annex B of United Nations Security Council 
     Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 4. DETERMINATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE IMPOSITION OF 
                   SANCTIONS FOR THE SALE OR TRANSFER OF 
                   DESTABILIZING TYPES AND AMOUNTS OF CONVENTIONAL 
                   WEAPONS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN.

       (a) Notification of Sales and Transfers.--Not later than 90 
     days after the date on which the President receives credible 
     information that destabilizing numbers and types of 
     conventional weapons have been sold or transferred to Iran, 
     the President shall notify the appropriate congressional 
     committees of the sale or transfer.
       (b) Determinations With Respect to Sanctions.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date on 
     which the President notifies the appropriate congressional 
     committees of a sale or transfer under subsection (a), the 
     President shall--
       (A) determine whether such sale or transfer meets the 
     requirements to impose sanctions under each provision of law 
     specified in subsection (c); and
       (B)(i) if the determination is that the sale or transfer is 
     subject to any such sanctions, the President shall--
       (I) make a determination whether to impose or waive such 
     sanctions with respect to such sale or transfer; and
       (II) submit that determination to the appropriate 
     congressional committees; or
       (ii) if the determination is that the sale or transfer is 
     not subject to any such sanctions, the President shall submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed report 
     on the determination and the specific reasons for the 
     determination.
       (2) Form.--The determination in paragraph (1) shall be 
     provided in an unclassified form, and may contain a 
     classified annex.
       (c) Provisions of Law Specified.--The provisions of law 
     specified in this subsection are the following:
       (1) Section 5(b)(1) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended by section 2 of this Act.
       (2) The Iran-Iraq Arms Non-Proliferation Act of 1992 (50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (3) The Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``destabilizing 
     numbers and types of advanced conventional weapons''--
       (1) has the meaning given the terms ``advanced conventional 
     weapons'' and ``cruise missile'' as defined in paragraphs (1) 
     and (2), respectively, of section 1608 of the Iran-Iraq Arms 
     Non-Proliferation Act of 1992 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); and
       (2) includes the S-300 and S-400 missile defense systems 
     and air superiority fighters.

     SEC. 5. DETERMINATION ON USE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN OF 
                   COMMERCIAL PASSENGER AIRCRAFT AND RELATED 
                   SERVICES FOR ILLICIT MILITARY OR OTHER 
                   ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Determination.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter 
     for three years, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a determination on use 
     by the Government of Iran of commercial passenger aircraft 
     and related services for illicit military or other activities 
     on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (b) Elements of Determination.--The determination required 
     under subsection (a) shall include a description of the 
     extent to which--
       (1) commercial passenger aircraft in Iran are being used to 
     transport--
       (A) arms or related materiel, including defense articles, 
     defense services, or technical data that are controlled on 
     the United States Munitions List established under section 38 
     of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778);
       (B) any item that is, or would be, if located in the United 
     States, controlled by Export Control Classification Number 
     600 series listed on the Commerce Control List maintained 
     under Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export 
     Administration Regulations;

[[Page H8171]]

       (C) items used to facilitate the development or production 
     of a chemical or biological weapon or other weapon of mass 
     destruction and their means of delivery, including ballistic 
     missiles and cruise missiles; or
       (D) any foreign person that facilitates the transfer of any 
     of the articles described in subparagraphs (A) through (C);
       (2) commercial passenger aircraft licensed by the Office of 
     Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury are 
     being used for activities described in paragraph (1); and
       (3) foreign governments and persons have facilitated the 
     activities described in paragraph (1), including allowing the 
     use of airports, services, or other resources.
       (c) Form of Determination.--The determination required 
     under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form 
     but may include a classified annex.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Commercial passenger aircraft.--The term ``commercial 
     passenger aircraft'' includes--
       (A) an aircraft of United States origin and that is 
     classified under Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 
     9A99l on the Commerce Control List maintained under 
     Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration 
     Regulations; or
       (B) an aircraft not of United States origin of which United 
     States-controlled content constitutes 10 percent or more of 
     the total value of the aircraft and that is--
       (i) classified under Export Control Classification Number 
     (ECCN) 9A99l on the Commerce Control List maintained under 
     Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration 
     Regulations; and
       (ii) is registered in a jurisdiction other than the United 
     States.
       (2) Export administration regulations.--The term ``Export 
     Administration Regulations'' means subchapter C of chapter 
     VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
       (3) Related services.--The term ``related services'', with 
     respect to a commercial passenger aircraft, includes--
       (A) the export, re-export, sale, lease, or transfer to Iran 
     of spare parts and components; and
       (B) warranty, maintenance, and repair services.

     SEC. 6. REGULATORY AUTHORITY.

       (a) In General.--The President shall, not later than 120 
     days after the date of the enactment of this Act, promulgate 
     regulations as necessary for the implementation of this Act 
     and the amendments made by this Act.
       (b) Notification to Congress.--Not less than 10 days before 
     the promulgation of regulations under subsection (a), the 
     President shall notify the appropriate congressional 
     committees of the proposed regulations and the provisions of 
     this Act and the amendments made by this Act that the 
     regulations are implementing.

     SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee 
     on Appropriations, the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the House of Representatives; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Finance, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
       (2) Credible information.--The term ``credible 
     information'' has the meaning given such term in section 14 
     of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (3) Government of iran.--The term ``Government of Iran'' 
     has the meaning given such term in section 560.304 of title 
     31, Code of Federal Regulations, as such section was in 
     effect on January 1, 2016.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentleman from New York (Mr. Engel) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.

                              {time}  1415


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include any extraneous material in the Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, due to the technical issues in 
the Chamber, I ask to withdraw the motion.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the motion is withdrawn.

                          ____________________



