

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7563-S7565]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 66, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to permit certain retired members of the 
uniformed services who have a service-connected disability to receive 
both disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for their disability and either retired pay by reason of their years of 
military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to require 
Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports in 
electronic form.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 446

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 446, a bill to 
allow reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.


                                 S. 447

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 447, a bill to require 
reporting on acts of certain foreign countries on Holocaust era assets 
and related issues.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.

[[Page S7564]]

  



                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative 
care at accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing 
schools, social work schools, and other programs, including physician 
assistant education programs, to promote education and research in 
palliative care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty 
careers in academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 820

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 820, a bill to designate a 
portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as wilderness.


                                 S. 936

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 936, a bill to designate 
certain National Forest System land and certain public land under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior in the States of Idaho, 
Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilderness, wild and scenic 
rivers, wildland recovery areas, and biological connecting corridors, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 948

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 948, a bill to designate as 
wilderness certain Federal portions of the red rock canyons of the 
Colorado Plateau and the Great Basin Deserts in the State of Utah for 
the benefit of present and future generations of people in the United 
States.


                                S. 1072

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1072, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of services for 
homeless veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1089

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1089, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Energy to review and update a report on the energy and 
environmental benefits of the re-refining of used lubricating oil.


                                S. 1613

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1613, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to modernize the funding of 
wildlife conservation, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to 
amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of 
that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users 
of interactive computer services of Federal and State criminal and 
civil law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1879

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1879, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for the coverage of marriage and family 
therapist services and mental health counselor services under part B of 
the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1911

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1911, a bill to 
amend the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to 
transfer certain funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers of America 
Pension Plan, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Cortez Masto, the name of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2076, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of 
activities related to Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain 
health under the Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2134

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2134, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish processes to 
ensure that non-Department of Veterans Affairs health care providers 
are using safe practices in prescribing opioids to veterans under the 
laws administered by the Secretary, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2144

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) and 
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 2144, a bill to provide a process for granting lawful permanent 
resident status to aliens from certain countries who meet specified 
eligibility requirements.


                              S.J. RES. 2

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 2, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relative to limiting the number of terms that a Member of 
Congress may serve.


                              S.J. RES. 40

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 40, a joint 
resolution to provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground 
munitions from the United States to Saudi Arabia.


                              S. RES. 291

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 291, a resolution 
affirming the historical connection of the Jewish people to the ancient 
and sacred city of Jerusalem and condemning efforts at the United 
Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to 
deny Judaism's millennia-old historical, religious, and cultural ties 
to Jerusalem.


                              S. RES. 336

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 336, a resolution 
recognizing the seriousness of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome and expressing 
support for the designation of the month of September 2018 as 
``Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Awareness Month'' .


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1595 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, to 
provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1596

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1596 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1622

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 1622 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1, 
to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1629

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1629 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2018.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1630

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1630 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2018.

[[Page S7565]]

  



                           AMENDMENT NO. 1634

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1634 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 1, to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles 
II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2018.

                          ____________________



