

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8522]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, 
             Ms. Kaptur, and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.R. 4254. A bill to amend the National Science Foundation 
     Authorization Act of 2002 to strengthen the aerospace 
     workforce pipeline by the promotion of Robert Noyce Teacher 
     Scholarship Program and National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration internship and fellowship opportunities to 
     women, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. MEEKS:
       H.R. 4255. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude corporations operating prisons from the 
     definition of taxable REIT subsidiary; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, and Mr. Smith of New Jersey):
       H.R. 4256. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize the expansion of activities related to Alzheimer's 
     disease, cognitive decline, and brain health under the 
     Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. STEWART (for himself and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 4257. A bill to maximize land management efficiencies, 
     promote land conservation, generate education funding, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself and Mr. Cleaver):
       H.R. 4258. A bill to promote the development of local 
     strategies to coordinate use of assistance under sections 8 
     and 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 with public 
     and private resources, to enable eligible families to achieve 
     economic independence and self-sufficiency, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 4259. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award 
     grants for naloxone rescue kits in public libraries, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Evans, and Mr. McEachin):
       H.R. 4260. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to establish a new tax credit and grant program to 
     stimulate investment and healthy nutrition options in food 
     deserts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Lewis of 
             Minnesota, Mr. Conyers, Mrs. Love, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Ms. Norton, and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 4261. A bill to improve public safety, accountability, 
     transparency, and respect for federalism in Federal criminal 
     law by applying evidence-based reforms already made by some 
     States, and reinvesting the resulting savings from doing so 
     in additional evidence-based criminal justice strategies that 
     are proven to reduce recidivism and crime, and the burden of 
     the criminal justice system on the taxpayer; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. WALKER:
       H.R. 4262. A bill to authorize members and former members 
     of the uniformed services who are entitled to veterans 
     disability compensation to continue to participate in the 
     Thrift Savings Plan through the deduction and deposit of a 
     percentage of their veterans disability compensation to the 
     Thrift Savings Fund; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.

                          ____________________



