

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7227]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               HONORING THE FALLEN ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the nearly 3,000 souls 
that were taken from us much too soon on September 11, 16 years ago.
  Like many others, the events of September 11, 2001, are forever 
etched in my memory. On that day, I was in Raleigh, North Carolina, 
serving in the State legislature, and recall an aide coming in to share 
the news.
  Naturally, when hearing about the first plane hitting the World Trade 
Center, we all thought it was a terrible accident that had occurred. My 
colleagues and I were in a state of shock and grief when we heard about 
the second plane and the subsequent attacks that followed.
  What I remember most is the feeling of abject horror and disbelief 
that we experienced on that day. That horror is still felt by the 
family members who were left behind, robbed of their loved ones who 
were violently taken too soon.
  I often think of the brave first responders who ran towards danger 
with thought of little else other than to save their fellow Americans.
  The terror attacks seemed surreal, yet the aftermath has a finality 
which does not dissipate with time. As years passed, the shock of the 
attack has diminished, but the memory of the feeling of hope that arose 
from the acts of selfless Americans is stronger.
  In my mind, one of the very worst events in human history became 
overshadowed as the very best in us--as a people--was made evident 
through countless acts of kindness and dignity. It is this dignity we 
must hold on to in order to honor the fallen.
  From the first responders, citizens, volunteers, and, finally, the 
devoted souls on board Flight 93, I remember the moments in which the 
very best parts of Americans shone brightest. These moments include 
when our citizens were no longer categorized by their differences, but 
were defined by their shared determination not only to survive, but 
also to overcome an unthinkable tragedy.
  If a student asks me about my memories of September 11, I always tell 
them honestly of the horror I felt, and I tell them of the hope that 
emerged as our people did their level best to turn evil into good.
  While I will never forget September 11, 2001, and the lives that were 
forever lost to us on that day, 16 years ago, I take some comfort in 
knowing that a loving and never-changing God called them to Heaven to 
live in His presence forever.
  Now, more than ever before, we must recall the sacrifices made by so 
many in the aftermath of September 11 and recall that freedom is never 
truly freely given. It is earned. It is hard-fought for, and it is 
something we must all work together to continue to achieve.
  May God bless all of those who lost their lives on September 11, 
those who were left behind, and those who continue to fight for our 
freedom.

                          ____________________



