

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8252]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    TRIBUTE TO SUELLYN WRIGHT NOVAK

 Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, Suellyn Wright Novak of Eagle 
River, AK, retired from the Air Force with the rank of colonel in 2003 
after a distinguished 32-year career in the biomedical field. She was 
commander of three different medical squadron, a clinical laboratory 
officer, and leader of the Air Force Blood Program worldwide. She 
returned home to begin a second career as a professional volunteer. At 
one time, she held 26 different volunteer positions.
  Suellyn's work with the Eagle River Presbyterian Church, the Chugiak/
Eagle River Chamber of Commerce, and the American Heart Association 
cannot go unmentioned, nor can we ignore her work as a service officer 
for VFW Post 9785 or the Alaska State Veterans Advisory Council, but 
Suellyn is best known for her work as the president and executive 
director of the Alaska Veterans Museum.
  Suellyn officially retired from this second career in October, 
handing the reins over to Mike Waller. In early 2018, the Alaska 
Veterans Museum will host an event to commemorate her service in 
January. I want to take a few moments to express my appreciation to 
Suellyn for her service to our Nation and to those who have served it.
  Alaska takes great pride in its standing as the State which hosts 
more veterans per capita than any other. About 70,000 veterans call 
Alaska home. It is fitting that Alaska host a museum honoring the 
service and sacrifice of our veterans. Suellyn is best known for taking 
the Alaska Veterans Museum from idea to reality. In 2005 she began 
collecting oral histories of veterans from all conflicts. She took on 
additional roles as researcher, display designer, fundraiser, grant 
writer, and membership chair. The museum was virtual at that point. It 
organized exhibits for the Anchorage Museum, the Alaska Native Heritage 
Center, and the Anchorage libraries, but didn't have a space of its 
own. It was Suellyn's vision to move the museum from a virtual space to 
a physical space in downtown Anchorage. She raised funds and worked 
with realtors to secure a prime affordable location. And once that 
location was secured, Suellyn recruited a handpicked team to get the 
museum open in just 11 days. The Alaska Veterans Museum opened on April 
17, 2011.
  Suellyn staffed the museum during nearly all the hours it was open--
except when she might be in an elementary school classroom presenting 
as a Continental soldier during the American Revolution or speaking 
about how those who fought for America's independence survived the 
battle or when she was coordinating ``Fan Mail'' to the troops. The 
Alaska Veterans Museum, I am told, sends more fan mail to troops than 
any other small organization in the United States. Suellyn's impact in 
recognizing and supporting our veterans and Active-Duty servicemembers 
is remarkable.
  One of the most remarkable examples of Suellyn's determination 
involves her efforts to place a memorial in the village of Attu in 
memory of those who lost their lives during the Forgotten Battle of 
World War II. Suellyn and the museum raised the necessary funds to 
create the replacement memorial but had no way of transporting it all 
the way out to Attu. Attu is the furthest of the U.S. Aleutian Islands, 
nearly 1,500 air miles from Anchorage.
  Fortunately, the U.S. Coast Guard offered a flight for me to tour 
their Loran Station on Attu. I recognized the opportunity to offer 
assistance to Suellyn and the museum. I can proudly claim that the new 
memorial was erected at the site where the former residents of Attu 
lived. Our mission was a success with the collaborative efforts of 
Suellyn, the museum, and the Coast Guard.
  I could go on and on about all that Suellyn does, but the list would 
undoubtedly be incomplete. I think my colleagues have by now gotten the 
idea that Suellyn is our ``Energizer Bunny'' extraordinaire. So on 
behalf of a very grateful Senate, I express appreciation to Suellyn for 
both of her careers: an exceptional Air Force career followed by a 
career of outstanding volunteer service to our community.

                          ____________________



