

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9788-H9789]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Latta, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Flores, Mr. Cuellar, and Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio):
       H.R. 4605. A bill to repeal restrictions on the export and 
     import of natural gas; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Latta, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Flores, and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 4606. A bill to provide that applications under the 
     Natural Gas Act for the importation or exportation of small 
     volumes of natural gas shall be granted without modification 
     or delay; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr. Gottheimer, and Mr. 
             Duffy):
       H.R. 4607. A bill to amend the Economic Growth and 
     Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996 to ensure that 
     Federal financial regulators perform a comprehensive review 
     of regulations to identify outdated or otherwise unnecessary 
     regulatory requirements imposed on covered persons, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself, Mr. Cole, Ms. Sinema, 
             and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 4608. A bill to amend the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 
     to secure urgent resources vital to Indian victims of crime, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 4609. A bill to provide for the conveyance of a Forest 
     Service site in Dolores County, Colorado, to be used for a 
     fire station; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Allen, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Costello 
             of Pennsylvania, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Perlmutter, 
             Mr. Pocan, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Sablan, Mr. 
             Schweikert, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Sherman, 
             Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Trott, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Stefanik, 
             Mr. Meehan, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, and Mrs. 
             Walorski):
       H.R. 4610. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement and 
     Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the electronic delivery of pension plan 
     information; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. DEMINGS (for herself and Ms. Plaskett):

[[Page H9789]]

  

       H.R. 4611. A bill to provide an increase in premium pay for 
     certain employees of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
     during fiscal years 2017 and 2018, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. HOLDING (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Meadows, Ms. Foxx, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Budd, Mr. Walker, 
             Mr. Hudson, Mr. Price of North Carolina, and Mr. 
             Jones):
       H.R. 4612. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 125 North Main Street in 
     Louisburg, North Carolina, as the ``Warren E. Massenburg Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Hudson, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Long, 
             Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Paulsen, and Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi):
       H.R. 4613. A bill to allow the use of claims, eligibility, 
     and payment data to produce reports, analyses, and 
     presentations to benefit Medicare, and other similar health 
     insurance programs, entities, researchers, and health care 
     providers, to help develop cost saving approaches, standards, 
     and reference materials and to support medical care and 
     improved payment models; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Katko, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Rush, Mr. Michael F. Doyle 
             of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Bustos, and Mr. Perry):
       H.R. 4614. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for an investment tax credit related to the 
     production of electricity from nuclear energy; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Mr. DeSantis):
       H.R. 4615. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to require Members of Congress to reimburse the 
     Treasury for amounts paid as awards and settlements resulting 
     from violations of such Act consisting of acts of sexual 
     harassment which were committed personally by the Members, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. MEEKS:
       H. Res. 655. A resolution calling for Congress to 
     investigate allegations of sexual misconduct against 
     President Trump; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.

                          ____________________



