

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H10186]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING PEARL S. BUCK INTERNATIONAL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the important 
work that Pearl S. Buck International is doing in our community in 
Bucks County.
  Pearl S. Buck was the first woman to receive both the Pulitzer and 
Nobel Prize for literature. Pearl Buck spent decades of her life in 
China, immersing herself in its culture and history, with her remaining 
time living in Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
  The foundation continues her work, providing opportunities to explore 
and appreciate other cultures and building better lives for children 
around the globe. Their work on projects--like the Backyard Gardening 
Project in the Philippines, Life Skills Education for Children Living 
in Vietnamese Orphanages, and Thailand Clean Drinking Water and 
Sanitation Project--has increased humanitarian aid for people across 
the world.
  The organization's School Outreach Program and the High School 
Leadership Program, which equips students committed to making lifelong 
contributions within the community with effective leadership skills, 
have made positive and long-lasting impacts in our district. I am 
thankful for, and stand in full support of, the work that Pearl S. Buck 
International does in our community and around the globe.


              Recognizing Benjamin Rush Elementary School

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, this December, over 50 students at 
Benjamin Rush Elementary School in Bucks County were recognized for 
their completion of the Drug Abuse Resistance Education Program. This 
training--more commonly known as D.A.R.E.--teaches young students basic 
skills for responsible decisionmaking.
  I thank the officers of the Bensalem Township Police Department for 
their work with Benjamin Rush Elementary School and for their 
commitment to educating young citizens in our district.

                              {time}  0930

  In the face of a growing opioid crisis, it is vital that students 
learn about the consequences of drug abuse.
  Mr. Speaker, as an EMT and vice chair of the Bipartisan Heroin Task 
Force, I applaud the efforts of educational programs like these and all 
those who seek to learn from them. Educating the young people in our 
communities about the potential dangers of drug abuse is absolutely 
crucial, and it is my hope that they will use the tools they have 
learned to lead safer and healthier lives and to become leaders in the 
lower Bucks County community.


         Creation of a New Gold Star Families Memorial Monument

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, this December, ground was broken at the 
Washington Crossing National Cemetery for the creation of a new Gold 
Star Families Memorial Monument. These monuments are erected across 
this country to recognize U.S. military members who have laid down 
their lives and their family members who have suffered alongside of 
them.
  Among those present for the groundbreaking was Hershel ``Woody'' 
Williams. Mr. Williams, a former marine, is the last surviving Medal of 
Honor recipient for honorable service during the Battle of Iwo Jima. It 
was with the help of his foundation that this monument was made 
possible.
  These memorials include stories about homeland, family, patriot, and 
sacrifice. In the center is a cutout that represents the loved one who 
has sacrificed their life in defense of our great country.
  Mr. Speaker, we can never forget those who have paid the ultimate 
price to secure our freedoms, nor can we forget the families who 
supported them in their noble endeavors. We are so proud to have a Gold 
Star Families Memorial Monument in our district.

                          ____________________



