

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7975-S7976]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 447

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 447, a bill to require 
reporting on acts of certain foreign countries on Holocaust era assets 
and related issues.


                                 S. 487

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 487, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an exclusion for 
assistance provided to participants in certain veterinary student loan 
repayment or forgiveness programs.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) and the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as cosponsors of S. 793, a bill 
to prohibit sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 794

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 794, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act in order to improve the process 
whereby Medicare administrative contractors issue local coverage 
determinations under the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 821

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 821, a bill to promote access for United States 
officials, journalists, and other citizens to Tibetan areas of the 
People's Republic of China, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1051

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1051, a bill to encourage visits 
between the United States and Taiwan at all levels, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1091, a bill to establish 
a Federal Task Force to Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren.


                                S. 1132

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey) were added as cosponsors of S. 1132, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the removal of the 
rental cap for durable medical equipment under the Medicare program 
with respect to speech generating devices.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1503, a bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
to mint coins in recognition of the 60th anniversary of the Naismith 
Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1633

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1633, a bill to promote 
innovative approaches to outdoor recreation on Federal land and to open 
up opportunities for collaboration with non-Federal partners, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home infusion therapy 
services temporary transitional payment under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1767

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1767, a bill to reauthorize the 
farm to school program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill to 
provide for wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1850

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1850, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to protect the confidentiality of substance 
use disorder patient records.


                                S. 1871

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of podiatrists 
in the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1901

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1901, a bill to require 
global economic and political pressure to support diplomatic 
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, including through the 
imposition of sanctions with respect to the Government of the 
Democratic People's Republic of Korea and any enablers of the 
activities of that Government, and to reauthorize the North Korean 
Human Rights Act of 2004, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. 
McCaskill), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator 
from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and 
the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1989, a bill to enhance transparency and accountability for online 
political advertisements by requiring those who purchase and publish 
such ads to disclose information about the advertisements to the 
public, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2107

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.

[[Page S7976]]

Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2107, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to require the Under Secretary of Health to report 
major adverse personnel actions involving certain health care employees 
to the National Practitioner Data Bank and to applicable State 
licensing boards, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current law regarding the 
National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2143

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2143, a bill to amend the National Labor 
Relations Act to strengthen protections for employees wishing to 
advocate for improved wages, hours, or other terms or conditions of 
employment, to expand coverage under such Act, to provide a process for 
achieving initial collective bargaining agreements, and to provide for 
stronger remedies for interference with these rights, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2144

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2144, a bill to provide a 
process for granting lawful permanent resident status to aliens from 
certain countries who meet specified eligibility requirements.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2159, a bill to 
require covered harassment and covered discrimination awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered harassment and covered discrimination complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2202

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2202, a bill to amend 
title 49, United States Code, to authorize appropriations for the 
National Transportation Safety Board, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 150

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 150, a resolution 
recognizing threats to freedom of the press and expression around the 
world and reaffirming freedom of the press as a priority in efforts of 
the United States Government to promote democracy and good governance.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a resolution 
condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's Rohingya 
population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active role in 
ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                              S. RES. 285

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 285, a resolution 
honoring the life and achievements of Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook.


                              S. RES. 346

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 346, a 
resolution recognizing the importance and effectiveness of trauma-
informed care.


                              S. RES. 350

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 350, a 
resolution recognizing the 69th anniversary of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the celebration of ``Human Rights 
Day''.

                          ____________________



