

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8279]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1215
                         OUR ECONOMY IS GROWING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, several economic indicators show us 
that our economy is growing: the unemployment rate is down, the stock 
market is up, consumer confidence is at its highest level in over a 
decade, and businesses are starting to invest in their future again. 
However, we cannot rest on this short-term snapshot.
  For too long, top-down policies from Washington have built a system 
that is based on protecting the status quo rather than helping small 
businesses and middle class families. We need to embrace a governing 
vision that advances the American Dream and puts jobs and economic 
growth above the partisanship that too often divides us, and this 
starts with tax reform.
  If this Congress is serious about standing up for middle class 
families and unleashing the power of the American economy, tax reform 
is the natural starting point. The model is straightforward. We need to 
simplify the ridiculously complex Internal Revenue Code, eliminate the 
loopholes that allow corporations and individuals to avoid paying their 
fair share, lower the rates for middle class families and for small 
businesses, and to broaden the tax base. We have the chance to make 
real, lasting changes to our broken and bloated tax system, and we need 
to act now.
  As a CPA and a member of the Small Business Committee and as a 
concerned taxpayer, I am committed to fighting for real tax reform 
based on three core principles: encouraging growth, simplifying the Tax 
Code itself, and increasing service for the taxpayers. The time is now 
to act.


                         Recognizing Bill Pezza

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, earlier this year, Bristol Borough won 
the Small Business Revolution, earning the borough a $500,000 grant to 
revitalize the community through small business development and 
entrepreneurship.
  Integral to this effort was Mr. Bill Pezza, an individual who defines 
everything that is great about Bucks County and everything that is 
great about Bristol Borough.
  Bill is a lifelong resident of Bristol, and his love for his hometown 
shines through in everything he does. He has served the community as an 
educator on the Bristol Borough Council, as a member of the school 
board, and as a community activist.
  He has championed local businesses, creating an organization called 
Raising the Bar, a program which brought community leaders and business 
owners together to support the local Bristol Borough economy. Focused 
on development and community preservation, he continues to find new 
ways to serve the Bristol Borough community today.
  Bill would be the first one to tell you that the many recognitions he 
has earned throughout the years belong to the community and not just to 
him, which is a true sign of his character. However, Mr. Speaker, it is 
my honor to recognize Bill today for being named Person of the Year at 
this year's Bristol Fall Classic.
  I am deeply grateful to Bill for the positive impact on our 
community, and I congratulate him, his wife, Karen, and his entire 
family for this much-deserved recognition.

                          ____________________



