

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6998-S6999]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO SUSIE McMURRY

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Susie McMurry.
  On November 10, 2017, the Greater Wyoming Council of the Boy Scouts 
of America will hold their annual ``Strength of America Banquet'' and 
celebrate Susie McMurry, a remarkable Wyoming philanthropist. Every 
year at this event, the council honors an individual who made 
invaluable contributions to the community and demonstrates the values 
of the Scout oath and law.
  Susie McMurry is a perfect choice to receive this special 
recognition. She is a role model in our community and truly represents 
a spirit of citizenship, leadership, and service. Throughout her life, 
Susie has always demonstrated an enduring devotion to God, her family, 
and Wyoming. She loves her family. She loves her home State of Wyoming. 
She loves her country.
  She truly exemplifies the Scout promise ``to help other people at all 
times.'' Should an opportunity arise to improve the life of a child, 
Susie is the first to offer her assistance, time, and resources. Susie 
strongly supports programs for children that focus on mentoring, 
developing leadership skills, encouraging community service, and 
building self-esteem. She believes ``Children are the sunshine in our 
lives. If we don't take care of our children, our world will be without 
sunshine.''
  Her parents raised her with a deep understanding of the importance of 
giving back. While growing up, her parents always lent a helping hand 
and opened their homes to individuals in need. Throughout her life, she 
has tried to follow their example. For nearly 30 years, she and her 
husband, Mick McMurry, were foster parents. They provided a safe and 
caring home for hundreds of children in Wyoming.
  Susie is a strong, compassionate, and caring woman. In 1946, she was 
born in Casper at Memorial Hospital of Natrona County. She called both 
Elk Mountain and Hanna home before eventually moving to Casper. Susie 
discovered her calling to help children early in life. She studied 
elementary education at Casper College and the University of Wyoming. 
After graduation, she returned to Casper and taught first grade at 
Crest Hill Elementary School.
  She met her husband of 41 years, Mick McMurry, in Casper. On December 
21, 1973, Susie and Mick McMurry were married in Glenrock, WY. A few 
years later, they adopted their daughter, Trudi, and Susie retired from 
teaching. In 1979, Susie and Mick became foster parents. Their second 
daughter, Jillian, was adopted from the foster program. Susie has eight 
grandchildren: Lou Davis, Tayla Davis, Tillie Holthouse, Ellie 
Holthouse, Evie Kaschmitter, Lily Kaschmitter, Max Kaschmitter, and 
Andrew Kaschmitter. She also has one great-grandchild, Neil Campbell. 
In 2015, Susie, the McMurry family, Casper, and the State of Wyoming 
mourned the loss of her husband, Mick. Susie's compassion and strength 
continues to guide her family and our community.
  The McMurry family has a remarkable history of helping people across 
the State of Wyoming. Susie explained, ``One of our goals is to teach 
the younger generation how to give back, how to participate, and love 
making a difference.'' Mick and Susie established the McMurry 
Foundation in 1998 with a mission to make a significant and beneficial 
impact on the lives of others. Guided by the values of excellence and 
compassion, the foundation has awarded more than $50 million since it 
was established. It focuses on education, religion, children and 
advocacy for children, health and human resources, the arts and 
humanities, and favorable business environments.
  Buildings across the State bear the McMurry name as a mark of 
gratitude for their wonderful support. The number of places in Wyoming 
that have benefited from the contributions of the McMurry family is 
incredible, but one organization especially dear to Susie is the 
Wyoming Medical Center. Susie has spent a tremendous number of

[[Page S6999]]

hours volunteering her time and talents to the benefit of everyone who 
comes through the doors. She feels that the health of a community is 
directly tied to the health of its people.
  The values that Susie and the McMurry Foundation promote go hand in 
hand with the mission of the Boy Scouts of America. They both work to 
ensure youth have the knowledge and skills needed to become future 
leaders of Wyoming. Their continued focus on education, leadership, and 
community service will serve these young people and our State for 
generations.
  Susie's kindness, generosity, and grace are true reflections of her 
character. She believes that fulfillment in life comes from making a 
difference in the lives of others. Whether it is volunteering at the 
Wyoming Medical Center to support patients and families or raising 
funds for the Boys and Girls Club of Central Wyoming, she has made a 
huge difference in the lives of so many people. Susie continues to have 
a positive and lasting mark on our community.
  It is with great honor that I recognize this exceptional member of 
our Wyoming community. My wife, Bobbi, joins me in extending our 
congratulations to Susie McMurry for receiving this honorable 
distinction.

                          ____________________



