

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5100]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                         TRIBUTE TO PETER WOLD

 Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, today I wish to celebrate the 
Boys and Girls Clubs of Central Wyoming's 2017 honoree, Peter Wold.
  Since 1978, the Boys and Girls Clubs of Central Wyoming has been 
working to make a positive difference in the lives of children. Their 
mission is to inspire all youth, especially those who need them the 
most, to reach their full potential and to be productive, responsible, 
and caring citizens. Their activities provide the children in our 
community with a sense of competence, usefulness, and belonging. The 
Boys and Girls Clubs of Central Wyoming is grateful for Peter's 
contributions to their critically important mission.
  On September 20, 2017, the Boys and Girls Clubs of Central Wyoming 
will be hosting the 19th Annual Awards and Recognition Breakfast. Every 
year at this event, the Boys and Girls Clubs honors a member of the 
community who has made outstanding contributions to both their 
organization and the city of Casper. It is a wonderful celebration. 
Peter Wold is a perfect honoree because of his commitment to the youth 
across the State of Wyoming.
  Peter is a successful businessman, philanthropist, and family man. He 
is a native of Casper, WY. Peter attended Colorado State University and 
earned a bachelor of science degree in biological science. He started 
his career at a trout farm in Idaho and later became one of the most 
influential landmen in the State of Wyoming. Peter followed in his 
father John Wold's footsteps at Wold Oil Properties, a family owned and 
operated oil and gas company characterized by consistency and western 
values. Since 1993, he and his brother Jack Wold have owned and managed 
the company. Peter is currently the President of Wold Energy Partners 
and CEO of Wold Oil Properties.
  Throughout his career, Peter gained valuable experience and knowledge 
of Wyoming industries, businesses, and communities. Since 1979, he has 
been managing member of Hole-in-the-Wall Ranch. Peter was a 
representative on the Bureau of Land Management's National Public Lands 
Advisory Council. Previously, Peter served as the chairman of the board 
of directors of the Wyoming Enhanced Oil Recovery Commission and a 
member of the board of directors of the Independent Petroleum 
Association of Rocky Mountain States. He is an active member of the 
Wyoming Association of Professional Landmen and the American 
Association of Professional Landmen. Peter Wold also served on the 
corporate boards of Arch Coal Corporations and Oppenheimer Funds.
  The Wold family has a proud tradition of public service and helping 
the people of Wyoming. Peter represented Natrona County in the Wyoming 
House of Representatives from 1989 to 1992. His passion to give back 
and sense of duty to the people of Wyoming was instilled in him by his 
father, John Wold. John Wold served in the Wyoming House of 
Representatives from 1957 to 1959 and the U.S. House of Representatives 
from 1969 to 1971. He was the first professional geologist in the U.S. 
Congress. Peter's son Matthew continued the family tradition of public 
service when he interned in my Washington, DC, office during the summer 
of 2007.
  Peter Wold continues to devote his time, talents, and resources to 
help promote programs that develop the mental and physical well-being 
of youth across Wyoming. In addition to supporting the Boys and Girls 
Clubs, Peter Wold is also a member of the board of trustees for the 
YMCA of Natrona County. He played an integral role in getting a new 
facility to serve the needs of the children, families, and members of 
the Casper community. Through his work with the Wold Foundation, Peter 
supports numerous projects and programs aimed at assisting Wyoming 
youth, such as the Natrona County School District History Day 
competition and the Little Hands Casper arts education program. His 
generosity to youth organizations will ensure the future of Wyoming is 
strong and vibrant.
  Peter Wold and his family truly represent the strong Wyoming values 
of hard work, generosity, and compassion. Peter Wold and his wife, 
Marla, have three children, Abbie Long and her husband Steve, Matthew 
Wold and his wife Katie, and Joe Wold and his wife Chelsey, as well as 
four grandchildren, Hayden, Harper, Ellie, and Annie. Casper and 
Wyoming are a better place thanks to the contributions of this 
exceptional family.
  It is with great honor that I recognize this outstanding member of 
our Wyoming community. My wife, Bobbi, joins me in extending our 
congratulations to Peter Wold for receiving this special award.

                          ____________________



