

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9536-H9537]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM

  (Mr. McCARTHY asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, Members are advised that votes are now 
expected in this House on Monday, December 4, at 6:30 p.m. Members 
should be prepared to vote on the motion to go to conference and the 
motion to instruct conferees on H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  I strongly encourage all Members to be here present and voting. If 
there are any further changes to the schedule, I will be sure to let 
all Members know.
  Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. McCARTHY. I yield to the gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the majority leader for yielding.
  As the majority leader knows, we have 9 days remaining under the 
present schedule. I understand that an extension of that to the 22nd 
may be contemplated, but we have 9 legislative days remaining.
  The gentleman has now just indicated that we are going to be voting 
on Monday. I would join the gentleman in urging every Member to be 
present on Monday. We are going to be casting very consequential votes 
over the next few days. Whether we are voting on them in a timely 
fashion or not, they will all be critically important, so I would urge 
all my Members to be here.
  We have much that needs to be done in the days that remain, as the 
gentleman knows.
  I want to raise two issues. Obviously the gentleman has indicated 
that we are going to vote to go to conference on the tax bill if the 
Senate passes the tax bill.
  In addition to that, of course, there are two major pieces of 
legislation and, frankly, many more, and I am not referring to, 
obviously, the omnibus or a CR so that we can keep the government 
funded, which everybody on this side of the aisle and I am sure 
everybody on that side of the aisle wants to do. I hope we are able to 
keep the government funded in a nondramatic way.
  But as I have indicated to the majority leader on numerous occasions, 
we feel very strongly, as the gentleman knows--and we have had positive 
discussions on this--that we need to also pass before the end of the 
year--and many of my friend's Members have raised that issue as well 
and urged that we pass before the end of the year a resolution for the 
children who were brought here as minors, some as young as 1 or 2 years 
of age and who know no other country but the United States of America, 
that we resolve their status

[[Page H9537]]

before the end of the year so they do not continue to twist in the wind 
and agonize about whether they are going to be sent to a place they do 
not know and they do not perceive as their country. They perceive 
themselves to be American. So I would hope that we can deal with that.
  In addition, my friend and I have had a discussion--there has been 
much over the last 11 months--about healthcare. I think one of the 
things that I think the gentleman and I agree on in a bipartisan way is 
that we all believe that the children of our country ought to have 
assurance of access to affordable, quality healthcare.
  We passed the CHIP bill through the House. As the gentleman knows, it 
was passed not in a bipartisan way. It sits now in the Senate and has 
not moved yet in the Senate. I would hope that those two issues at the 
very least--and there are many others, including the fiscal bills and 
the omnibus--that need to be moved. I would hope, whether we are 9 days 
or 13 days, however many days that we have remaining, that those two 
issues in addition to others will be resolved before we leave.
  I thank the gentleman for his announcement and giving us a heads-up 
about Monday, but I would hope that we would also in the few days that 
remain to us work very hard to try to get those issues and others 
resolved before we leave for the year.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his time.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman does know--we have talked 
many times--about our issue not only just on security but also when it 
comes to DACA, and we know that deadline is not approaching by the end 
of this year.
  My good friend does know the deadline of government funding that 
affects all Americans. I take my friend in a serious manner, but I 
would say my severe disappointment in what transpired this week when an 
opportunity to meet with all leadership--my friend talked about the 
number of days we have. This is not a time to play politics. This is 
not about one party or the other.
  I would be glad to hear the support and opposed. You just have to 
show up for the meeting. I think more outcome would happen if you show 
up to the meeting.
  Tomorrow I will be announcing a full legislative schedule. I am 
excited about the opportunity to let America keep more of their hard-
earned money and get us working again.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



