

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7973-H7975]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following

[[Page H7974]]

titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Schrader, 
             and Mr. Lance):
       H.R. 4006. A bill to establish a Community-Based 
     Institutional Special Needs Plan demonstration program to 
     target home and community-based care to eligible Medicare 
     beneficiaries, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DENT (for himself, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Amodei, Mr. 
             Bost, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Collins 
             of New York, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Harper, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, 
             Mr. Katko, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Kinzinger, 
             Mr. Knight, Mr. Long, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, 
             Mr. Simpson, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Thompson 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Lance, Mr. Upton, 
             Mr. Meehan, Mr. Barletta, and Mr. Reichert):
       H.R. 4007. A bill to revise the quorum requirement for the 
     Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United 
     States; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H.R. 4008. A bill making additional supplemental 
     appropriations for disaster relief requirements for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, and in addition 
     to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Cole, and 
             Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 4009. A bill to authorize the Board of Regents of the 
     Smithsonian Institution to plan, design, and construct a 
     central parking facility on National Zoological Park property 
     in the District of Columbia; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Sessions, and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 4010. A bill to amend the Revised Statutes of the 
     United States and title 28, United States Code, to enhance 
     compliance with requests for information pursuant to 
     legislative power under Article I of the Constitution, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. UPTON (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 4011. A bill to amend chapter 329 of title 49, United 
     States Code, relating to average fuel economy standards for 
     automobiles; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Franks 
             of Arizona, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Correa, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Yoho, Mrs. 
             Murphy of Florida, and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 4012. A bill to require a National Intelligence 
     Estimate on Iranian proxy forces, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), and in 
     addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Ellison, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Takano, 
             Mr. Gallego, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, and Mr. Cummings):
       H.R. 4013. A bill making appropriations for the Bureau of 
     the Census for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018; to 
     the Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Connolly, and Mr. 
             Doggett):
       H.R. 4014. A bill to amend chapter 5 of title 31, United 
     States Code, to require publication of information relating 
     to regulatory conflicts of interest, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 4015. A bill to improve the quality of proxy advisory 
     firms for the protection of investors and the U.S. economy, 
     and in the public interest, by fostering accountability, 
     transparency, responsiveness, and competition in the proxy 
     advisory firm industry; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr. Jones, and Mr. 
             DeSaulnier):
       H.R. 4016. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     eliminate the recoupment of separation pay, special 
     separation benefits, and voluntary separation incentive 
     payments from members of the Armed Forces who subsequently 
     receive disability compensation under laws administered by 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs and to impose limitations 
     on the authority of the Secretary of Defense to recoup such 
     pay from members who subsequently receive military retired or 
     retainer pay; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 4017. A bill to authorize the President to take 
     actions to ensure Israel is prepared for all contingencies if 
     Iran seeks to develop a nuclear weapon after expiration of 
     certain provisions of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
       H.R. 4018. A bill to provide for a 3-day waiting period 
     before a person may receive a handgun, with exceptions; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, Mrs. Love, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 4019. A bill to provide grants to States and Indian 
     tribes to reform their criminal justice system to encourage 
     the replacement of the use of payment of secured money bail 
     as a condition of pretrial release in criminal cases, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 4020. A bill to amend the Emergency Food Assistance 
     Act of 1983 relating to the distribution of food; and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. PERRY:
       H.R. 4021. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     provide funding for public transportation services offered by 
     high-performing public and private systems, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Lee, 
             and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 4022. A bill to implement a strategic approach for 
     providing foreign assistance in order to end preventable 
     child and maternal deaths globally within a generation, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Tonko, and Mr. 
             Reed):
       H.R. 4023. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to award grants to States educational 
     agencies and local educational agencies to support, develop, 
     and implement formal and informal engineering education 
     programs in elementary schools and secondary schools; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mr. DeFazio, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Garamendi, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Costa, Ms. 
             Lee, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, 
             Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Eshoo, 
             Mr. Clay, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Polis, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 4024. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
     and title 39, United States Code, to provide the United 
     States Postal Service the authority to mail alcoholic 
     beverages, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Engel, 
             and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 4025. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     expand to all firearms the requirement that Federal firearms 
     licensees report sales of 2 or more handguns to the same 
     unlicensed person within 5 consecutive business days; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. VARGAS (for himself and Mr. Cook):
       H.R. 4026. A bill to take certain land located in San Diego 
     County, California, into trust for the benefit of the Pala 
     Band of Mission Indians, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, and Mr. Gallagher):
       H.R. 4027. A bill to require global economic and political 
     pressure to support diplomatic denuclearization of the Korean 
     Peninsula, including through the imposition of sanctions with 
     respect to the Government of the Democratic People's Republic 
     of Korea and any enablers of the activities of that 
     Government, and to reauthorize the North Korean Human Rights 
     Act of 2004, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Financial Services, and Intelligence (Permanent Select), for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. Grijalva, and Mr. Evans):
       H. Res. 567. A resolution expressing support for the 
     physician assistant (PA) profession and the designation of 
     the week of October 6

[[Page H7975]]

     through 12, 2017, as ``National PA Week''; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself and Mr. Raskin):
       H. Res. 568. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the justices of the United States 
     Supreme Court should make themselves subject to the existing 
     and operative ethics guidelines set out in the Code of 
     Conduct for United States Judges, or should promulgate their 
     own code of conduct; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



