

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7829-S7834]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session and resume consideration of the Nielsen 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of 
Kirstjen

[[Page S7830]]

Nielsen, of Virginia, to be Secretary of Homeland Security.
  The majority whip.


                            Tax Reform Bill

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, we know last Friday night, into the wee 
hours of Saturday morning, this body did something remarkable, 
something people said would never happen. We actually got some very 
important work done and passed a very important piece of legislation--
the first overhaul of our Nation's Tax Code in over 30 years.
  People said it couldn't be done. It is too hard. With Democrats 
opposing us at every step on the committee and on the floor, people 
said there were just too many obstacles in our way, and it was 
impossible to accomplish. People said there were too many special 
interests down on K Street that would make it impossible for us to 
figure out this Rubik's Cube of a tax code, there were too many moving 
pieces in this giant tome of our tax law. People warned us, if we did 
this, we would take political flak from all sides.
  Well, to the cynics and skeptics and doubters, I will say: You were 
wrong. We did get it done. Families and job creators woke up the next 
day after the final vote feeling a little bit more confident about our 
Nation's fiscal future. Now that the bill has passed the Senate, they 
will be less weighed down by the yoke of government. They can breathe a 
little sigh of relief knowing we are doing our job. We are doing what 
we said we would do when they gave us control of the government.
  Of course, it took no time for our major victory to be mocked, 
denigrated, or simply misrepresented. Sometimes the false rumor 
spreading was done deliberately by our friends on the other side of the 
aisle, which is ironic because Democrats used to support many aspects 
of this plan, such as lowering taxes for the middle class and 
eliminating incentives for corporations to ship jobs overseas. I guess 
we must conclude that they were happy with the status quo, a slow-
growing economy, stagnant wages, jobs being shipped overseas because of 
our self-destructive Tax Code. I guess we would have to conclude they 
thought that was a good thing. Well, they know it was not a good thing, 
but they just couldn't stand the possibility that we were going to be 
able to make this major accomplishment on behalf of the American 
people. Because they were so mired down in the politics of the day, 
they lost sight of the forest for the trees.
  We all know it is easier to criticize than to contribute, such as 
when many on the other side feigned outrage about small tweaks that 
needed to be made to the bill. It is interesting. Back in 2010, there 
was an amendment called the Durbin amendment No. 3989 where, during the 
course of the debate, it was necessary to make some changes in the bill 
by handwriting those changes in the bill text. No one thought that was 
an outrage. Everyone understood this is sometimes what happens when you 
are making last-minute changes to legislation. Yet our Democratic 
colleagues acted like this was the first time this had ever been done, 
and 46 Senate Democrats voted for Senator Durbin's amendment, which 
included these handwritten changes in the text.
  Don't forget the tax bill was passed last week through regular order. 
``Regular order'' is part of the jargon we use around here, but it 
means the normal legislative process. Unlike the Affordable Care Act 
that was written in Majority Leader Harry Reid's office and brought to 
the Senate floor without going through the Senate Finance Committee. 
Unlike that process, this tax bill originated in the Senate Finance 
Committee, was the product of multiyear studies, working groups, white 
papers, a lot of proposals like the Camp draft, for example, that 
helped inform our debate.
  From the bill that had been introduced by the ranking member, Senator 
Wyden, along with Senator Coats, we were able to glean some of the best 
elements of all of those prior efforts. Using regular order, giving 
Democrats and Republicans a chance to contribute to the legislation in 
the Finance Committee and on the Senate floor, we gave Democrats and 
Republicans a chance to offer amendments and to get votes on those 
amendments. That is what we mean by regular order, and that is what our 
friend from Arizona, the senior Senator from Arizona, Mr. McCain, 
rightly called for earlier this fall.
  There were hearings after hearings. Democrats went to them. Democrats 
had their opportunities to offer amendments during the committee markup 
and to offer amendments on the floor. So one simply cannot say, 
honestly or truthfully, as many Democrats have, that the bill was 
negotiated in darkness, behind their backs, without their 
participation. It simply is a false claim, it is not true, and the 
facts show that.
  It is not just our Democratic colleagues who have fueled 
misperceptions about the tax bill we passed late last Friday night, 
early Saturday morning. There was a big stir raised with the scoring 
done by the Joint Committee on Taxation. Some of the critics of the tax 
bill have latched onto the Joint Taxation report, finding that the bill 
would increase the economy by 0.8 percent over 10 years, not enough for 
the cuts to pay for themselves, thus adding to the national deficit. 
That was the claim.
  I take concerns about fiscal responsibility very seriously, but we 
have to acknowledge that economic modeling is notoriously difficult and 
can be done in a number of different ways. Each of these models has its 
strengths and weaknesses, each provides a range of estimates, and none 
is perfect. We have not yet been given the gift of perfect knowledge of 
the future. In the case of the Joint Committee on Taxation, the 
estimate was that the tax bill would generate enough growth to offset 
its pricetag from $1.4 trillion to about $1 trillion--a net $400 
billion feedback effect. This is pretty interesting listening to our 
colleagues across the aisle. They make the audacious claim that tax 
cuts generate no economic growth--none. So when the original Budget 
Committee budget came out, giving the tax writers $1.5 trillion of 
deficit spending on a static basis, they claimed that would result in a 
$1.5 trillion deficit. Well, the Joint Committee on Taxation concluded 
that was not true. In fact, tax cuts can have a stimulative effect on 
the economy. Incentives can change human behavior, but it is 
notoriously difficult to estimate with any precision.
  In any giant complex system like the American economy, the effect of 
changes is not easy to predict, but even small changes can produce 
large, far-reaching benefits. In our case, that means changes in our 
Tax Code can fuel major economic growth, which ought to be our 
collective goal.
  Why should we have to settle for anemic economic growth? Why should 
we have to settle for flat wages? Why should we have to settle for jobs 
being created overseas because our Tax Code incentivizes that rather 
than incentivizing investment and job creation in the United States?
  Well, the fact is, we don't have to settle for that, and we haven't. 
This tax bill represents our best effort to try to make sure our 
economy does grow, that wages do go up, and that jobs do come home to 
the United States because businesses are incentivized to bring that 
money back home and invest it in jobs and wages back here.
  I am optimistic that with the reforms we have enacted, the economy 
could grow by as much as 3 percent, as the Heritage Foundation and the 
Tax Foundation have said. The President's Council of Economic Advisers 
and influential economists agree. I am aware of the old saying that if 
we were to stretch all the economists in the world end to end, we would 
never reach a conclusion. They call it the dismal science for a reason. 
It is not rocket science; it is modeling that tries to predict the 
future, which is notoriously difficult to do. In fact, you can't do it, 
but we try to come up with the best guesstimate we can.
  I think it is wrong to just look at the Tax Code when you are looking 
at our economic future. Coupled with the regulatory relief we have seen 
under the new administration, along with the Congressional Review Act 
where we repealed back some of the onerous regulations on the economy, 
and with consumer confidence at a 16-year high, I think we all have the 
sense that America is coming back as a leading economic engine in the 
world, and we need to do that because we need to lead the way for the 
world economy. We need to make sure that the standard of living

[[Page S7831]]

in America continues to be something that we can achieve--a better 
standard of living for our children and grandchildren than the one we 
ourselves have enjoyed. That is the legacy we have inherited from our 
parents and grandparents.

  Yes, we are in a dangerous world. The former Director of National 
Intelligence, James Clapper, said that in his 50 years in the 
intelligence community, he had never seen a more diverse array of 
threats than he did today. We can't ignore that, which means that we 
have to use some of that prosperity for our common defense. That is 
another important thing we are going to have to do before the end of 
this year; that is, to agree on a top-line spending number for national 
defense spending, because we have been trying to cash the peace 
dividend, again, when there is no peace or at least peace is threatened 
in places around the world, whether it is in the South China Sea, 
Syria, North Korea, or in Europe, with Russia on the march threatening 
NATO and our European allies. We need a strong economy so the standard 
of living can go up, wages can increase, and so we can do the things 
that we know we need to do as a country.
  Now, I realize that these positive analyses by groups like the 
Heritage Foundation, the Tax Foundation, and the President's Council of 
Economic Advisers don't entirely pacify some of the deficit hawks. I 
count myself among them. We worry about whether tax reform will add to 
our debt through cuts in decreased revenue. But even based on 
conservative estimates, this tax reform could result in $130 billion in 
new revenue--revenue we would not otherwise have.
  Here is the problem. Here is the elephant in the room that people 
simply choose to ignore or have given up on: Revenue isn't our biggest 
problem. It is our spending addiction. It is the 70 percent of Federal 
spending that is on autopilot, going up on average about 5.5 percent 
per year. Now, we have tried to do what we could through the Budget 
Control Act in 2011 and put a cap on discretionary spending, including 
defense spending. That has been relatively flat since 2011, but all the 
while, entitlement spending has gone up because we don't have the 
political courage to deal with it. The deficit can't be eliminated with 
tax increases. We can't tax America's producers enough to fill the 
hole. We have to address mandatory spending, which keeps growing year 
after year after year. It nearly doubled during the Obama 
administration, during which time our friends across the aisle never 
really said much about deficits and debt. But it is real. We ought to 
go to the root cause of it and not claim that it is making tax cuts to 
help make our economy more vibrant and improve the quality of life for 
more Americans.
  Putting aside the macroeconomic concerns over the tax bill for a 
moment, it is easy to see how, on a more personal level, families and 
workers will benefit. Sometimes in accounts about tax reform, this more 
human focus is simply left out and that is a mistake.
  For example, in our bill, rates are reduced for everybody. Every tax 
bracket sees a reduction in their tax rate. The standard deduction for 
families is doubled. So if you are a married couple filing a joint 
return, for the first $24,000 you earn, there is zero tax--zero. Then 
we double the child tax credit. I think that is something we should do 
because we need to help those families that have children to make sure 
that their families prosper, and the child tax credit is one way we can 
do that.
  The ObamaCare mandate to buy government-approved insurance, which is 
just a tax on low- and middle-income Americans, is repealed, and I 
think that is another form of tax relief. There are 6.7 million 
Americans who had to pay a penalty to their own government because they 
couldn't afford to buy the government-mandated insurance because of the 
way that program was structured. Well, we eliminate that entirely. So, 
hopefully, those families can then use their own resources to buy 
insurance policies that meet their needs rather than what the 
government mandates.
  We also soften the blow of the death tax, something I will continue 
to work to completely eliminate because I think it is simply a moral 
issue. Why should we tax income when earned and, then, when families 
want to pass it on to their children--whether it is the family farm, 
ranch, or a small business--we tax them again and make that sometimes 
impossible to do? Usually, if you want to reduce something, you tax it 
and that doesn't apply to the death tax because death will come no 
matter what. But it is immoral, I believe--double taxation. That is no 
reason for Washington to prevent families from passing on the fruit of 
their labor to their loved ones.
  The likely result of all of these changes will be that wages will 
increase by as much as $4,000 for the average family. That is the 
estimate of the Council of Economic Advisers. Think about that--if we 
can get the economy growing faster than the 1.9 percent anemic growth 
of the Obama years. Just think about that. The economy has grown on 
average at 3.2 percent since World War II. Yet we are being asked to 
settle for the new normal of the Obama years when the economy grew at 2 
percent or less. So if we can get the economy growing faster, we will 
see wages improve and we will see family income improve. If we can cut 
their tax burden and relieve them of onerous things like the poverty 
tax, known as the Obama individual mandate tax, families will be better 
off.

  A median family of four will see their tax burden cut by $2,200. Now, 
I know that in Washington, DC, when we talk about millions and billions 
and trillions of dollars, $2,200 doesn't seem like a lot of money, but 
for many families struggling to meet their obligations paycheck after 
paycheck, $2,200 can make a big difference. It can help them pay off 
their mortgage or pay college tuition for their children or replace a 
water heater or get their car fixed or finally take a long-delayed 
family vacation.
  Now, the last heedless claim I have heard about our tax bill is that 
it mainly benefits corporations at the expense of normal, hard-working 
men and women. Once again, this is a false claim. Some portion of our 
high corporate tax rates are always borne by labor--by American 
workers, in other words. Our friends across the aisle and the critics 
sometimes claim that if you do something for a business, whether it is 
a passthrough business or a corporation, it has no effect on the people 
who work for it. Well, that is just demonstrably wrong, because the 
better off those businesses are, the more people they can hire, the 
better the wages are that they can pay, and those help hard-working 
American families.
  So higher business taxes mean fewer jobs and smaller paychecks, and 
it means that we are less competitive in a global economy. That is why 
businesses are moving their headquarters overseas to low-tax countries 
like Ireland or the United Kingdom. This situation will change under 
our new bill.
  In a recent survey of corporate chief executive officers, 82 percent 
said they would increase capital spending if our bill passed and 76 
percent said they would increase hiring. So, yes, it is true that 
business will benefit, but we want them to because the end result will 
be less tax dodging and more jobs coming back home and, as I mentioned 
earlier, apart from businesses, families and individuals benefit too.
  What is so bizarre about the debate is that this is a concept that 
former President Obama championed; that the Democratic leader, Senator 
Schumer, has championed; and that the ranking member of the Senate 
Finance Committee, Senator Wyden, has championed--lower corporate 
taxes--because they realize this is a self-inflicted wound because it 
forces businesses overseas and prevents them from bringing their income 
back and investing it in the United States in jobs and wages. My 
question to them is this: Have you forgotten? Well, I don't think they 
have forgotten.
  Throughout the tax reform process, Members of this Republican 
Conference on this side of the aisle worked together, and I am grateful 
for the contribution that each and every one of them made. With the 
strong headwinds from our opponents on the other side of the aisle who 
wanted failure, presumably because they liked the status quo rather 
than success, we knew this was going to be difficult, and it was. We 
got it done, but we are not finished yet.
  As we head into a conference with the House of Representatives, the 
focus has to be on how we can maintain support here in the Senate. I 
hope our

[[Page S7832]]

friends across the Capitol understand that the Senate bill was a very 
fragile compromise and that one or two--well, two or more--Senators who 
would not support that bill could jeopardize the House-Senate 
conference. So we have to be very careful. We have to continue to 
communicate and work together with each other, and we can't undermine 
our own victory. It is not just our victory. It is a victory for 
American families and for our country and for our standing in the 
world. So when we begin our conversations with the House, let's take 
care to work closely together and continue to communicate. Let's prove 
that passing tax reform wasn't just a dream or an aberration. It was 
real. Now with the ball on the 5-yard line, we just have to punch this 
into the end zone.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                                  DACA

  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I rise today with increasing concern about 
the uncertain future facing DACA recipients. There are nearly 800,000 
DACA recipients. They are children who were brought across the border, 
through no fault of their own, years and years ago. There are nearly 
800,000 across the country and nearly 50,000 just in Arizona alone. 
They have protections now from deportation, but those protections will 
run out around the first of March.
  Despite the sense of urgency to solve the problem by the end of the 
year, there is very little legislative progress to show for it. The 
time has come for us to work together to deliver a real solution. We 
don't need partisan bills that send a message; we need bipartisan 
solutions that can pass the Senate.
  We have spent so much time operating under reconciliation that it is 
worth reminding people that this measure will need 60 votes in order to 
succeed. So much of the legislation we have been considering has been 
under reconciliation, with just a 51-vote margin being sufficient. That 
will not be the case with a fix for DACA. We need to get 60 votes. That 
means if we hope to protect DACA recipients, both sides will need to 
compromise.
  These individuals whom we seek to help are students, employees, 
colleagues, and friends. They don't know any other home but the United 
States. They have embraced the values of hard work and perseverance, 
and, in turn, their communities have embraced them as their own. Some 
of the most compelling pleas on behalf of these young people have come 
from those who know them best. These kids are not just Americans in 
their own eyes; they are Americans in the eyes of their friends, their 
classmates, their teachers, and their coworkers.
  We all recognize that these kids were brought here, as I mentioned, 
through no fault of their own. No one wants to see them deported. As 
leaders of a nation of immigrants, we need to work together and deliver 
a chance for them to have a bright future. We need workable legislation 
that can realistically be passed and signed into law. We don't need to 
make a statement; we need to make a law.
  There are many challenges facing us with regard to immigration, but 
protecting these young people should not be one of those challenges. 
This should be the easy lift.
  I hope we can all work together in a bipartisan way to find a 
solution for these kids who deserve a solution.
  With that, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from South Dakota.


                         Tax Cuts and Jobs Bill

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, relief for American families is on the way.
  Last week, the Senate passed our version of the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act, a tax reform bill that will provide immediate, direct relief to 
hard-working Americans.
  Our legislation doubles the standard deduction, it doubles the child 
tax credit, and it lowers rates. Under our bill, a family of four 
making $73,000 a year will see a $2,200 tax cut, or a reduction in 
taxes of about 60 percent over what they are paying under current law. 
A single parent with one child making $41,000 will see his or her taxes 
drop from around $1,865 today to just $488 under our bill, a reduction 
of nearly 75 percent over what they are paying today.
  That is just the beginning. The tax bill before us today is going to 
provide immediate relief to hard-working families. It is going to 
immediately lower their tax bills. It is going to immediately mean more 
money in their pockets.
  But this bill is about much more than that. This bill isn't just 
about helping Americans today--although it is most certainly going to 
do that--the bill is about helping Americans for the long term. It is 
about giving Americans access to the kinds of wages, jobs, and 
opportunities that will set them up for a secure and prosperous future.
  The way we do that is by improving the playing field for American 
businesses. In order for individual Americans to thrive economically, 
we need American businesses to thrive. Thriving businesses create jobs, 
they provide opportunities, and they increase wages and invest in their 
workers.
  But our current Tax Code hasn't been helping businesses thrive. For 
years now, our tax laws have left businesses of all sizes struggling 
under the burden of high tax rates and an outdated tax system that has 
left American businesses at a disadvantage in the global economy.
  Small businesses employ nearly half of American workers and create a 
majority of the new jobs in this country. But right now, small 
businesses face high tax rates that can make it difficult for these 
businesses to even survive, much less thrive and expand their 
operations. Our bill will fix this.
  To start with, our bill implements a new deduction for passthrough 
businesses like partnerships, LLCs, and S corporations. This deduction 
will allow them to keep more of their money, which will allow them to 
reinvest in their operations, increase wages, and hire new workers.
  Our bill also reforms current provisions in the Tax Code that 
frequently leave small businesses with very little cash on hand. Under 
our legislation, small businesses will be able to recover the capital 
they have invested in things like inventory and machinery much more 
quickly and, in certain cases, immediately. This, in turn, will free up 
capital that small businesses can use to expand and to create jobs.
  Our legislation also includes provisions that I helped develop that 
will simplify accounting rules for small businesses, which will also 
help reduce their tax burden, leaving more of their earnings to 
reinvest in their businesses and their workers.
  In addition to providing relief to small businesses, another thing 
our bill will do to boost Americans' wages is lower our massive 
corporate tax rate. Our Nation's corporate tax rate today is the 
highest in the industrialized world, which puts the United States at a 
major disadvantage next to our international competitors. Reducing the 
corporate tax rate will enable American businesses to compete on a more 
level playing field, which will, in turn, free up money that U.S. 
businesses can use to create jobs and increase wages.
  The White House Council of Economic Advisers estimates that reducing 
the corporate tax rate to 20 percent, as our bill does, will increase 
wages for U.S. households by $4,000 annually. That is money that 
families can use to save for retirement, help pay for a child's 
education, replace an aging vehicle, or invest in a new home.
  Our bill will also boost wages and increase opportunities for 
Americans by ending the outdated tax framework that is driving American 
companies to keep jobs and profits overseas. Our Nation currently 
operates under a so-called worldwide tax system. That means that 
American companies pay U.S. taxes on the profits they make here at 
home, as well as on part of the profits they make abroad once they 
bring that money back to the United States. The problem with this is 
that American companies are already paying taxes to foreign governments 
on the money they make abroad. Then, when they bring that money home, 
they could end up having to pay taxes again on part of those profits 
and at the highest tax rate in the industrialized world. It is no 
surprise that this

[[Page S7833]]

discourages businesses from bringing their profits back to the United 
States to invest in their domestic operations and new jobs and 
increased wages.
  Our bill replaces our outdated worldwide tax system with a 
territorial tax system. Under our legislation, American companies will 
no longer face the double taxation that has encouraged them to send 
their investments and their operations overseas. Instead, U.S. 
companies will have a strong incentive to invest their profits at home 
in American jobs and in American workers.
  All in all, the Tax Foundation estimates that in addition to 
increasing wages, our bill will create nearly 1 million new jobs for 
American workers and boost the size of the economy by 3.7 percent.
  I don't need to tell anybody that American families have had a tough 
time in recent years or that our economy as a whole has stagnated, with 
weak economic growth, almost nonexistent wage growth, and a lack of 
opportunity that has become the norm for way too many families. But 
this tax bill marks the beginning of the end of the Obama-era economy.
  The tax bill we just passed will usher in a new era of dynamism in 
this country. It will let Americans keep more of their earnings right 
now, and it will improve Americans' economic situation for the long 
term. It will send a message to the world that America is serious about 
competing and succeeding and winning in the 21st century economy.
  Under this bill, American companies will compete and win globally, 
and American businesses, large and small, and the American people will 
thrive as a result.
  I look forward to going to conference with the House of 
Representatives and getting a final, comprehensive tax reform bill to 
the President. We have a once-in-a-generation opportunity--literally, a 
once-in-a-lifetime chance--to make a real difference in the lives of 
literally millions of Americans. It is time to get this bill across the 
finish line. It can't happen soon enough for the American people.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Vermont.
  Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, President Trump and the Republican 
leadership, as we just heard, are talking every day on television, at 
news conferences, telling the American people how this tax bill that 
was passed here at 2 o'clock in the morning on Saturday--without any 
hearings, with no serious debate--how this tax bill is designed to help 
the middle class and how it was written for the middle class.
  Unfortunately, I suspect that I will not shock too many Americans by 
suggesting that what President Trump has been saying is not truthful. 
This legislation, according to numerous independent studies, will 
provide 62 percent of the benefits to the top 1 percent--62 percent of 
the benefits will go to the top 1 percent--while increasing taxes on 83 
million middle-class households by the end of the decade. Why? The 
reason is that the tax cuts for middle-class families expire by the end 
of 2025, while the tax breaks for large corporations are made 
permanent.
  We are living in a moment in American history where we have an 
unprecedented level of income and wealth inequality, where the top one-
tenth of 1 percent now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 
percent, where the top 1 percent owns almost twice as much wealth as 
the bottom 90 percent, and, if you can believe it, where three of the 
wealthiest people in this country--Mr. Gates, Mr. Bezos, and Mr. 
Buffett--three people own more wealth than the bottom half of the 
American population. That is where we are right now.
  Yet, in the midst of this incredible level of income and wealth 
inequality, my Republican colleagues believe that this is a moment when 
62 percent of the benefits of so-called tax reform should go to the top 
1 percent and 42 percent of the benefits should go to the top one-tenth 
of 1 percent, while at the same time tens of millions of middle-class 
families will end up paying more in taxes. How crazy is that? So we 
have a situation in which the wealthy, who need tax breaks the least, 
will benefit the most, and the working class and middle class of this 
country, who need the most help, will benefit the least.
  The President of the United States and my Republican colleagues tell 
the American people that trickle-down economics--giving huge tax breaks 
to the wealthy and large corporations--will expand the economy. We just 
heard Senator Thune talking about that. They will create new jobs and 
will bring in so much revenue that it will pay for the deficit it 
creates.
  Every independent expert who has taken a look at this tax bill has 
said it will substantially increase the deficit, even after accounting 
for the possibility of increased economic growth. The Joint Committee 
on Taxation has told us that this bill will increase the deficit by 
$1.4 trillion over the next decade. Why is that important?
  First of all, it shows, if I may say, the hypocrisy of my Republican 
colleagues who, year after year after year on this floor, lectured us 
about the dangers of a $20 trillion national debt and growing deficits. 
We heard this time and time again. But somehow, when it comes to the 
need to provide tax breaks to billionaires, that concern about the 
deficit seems to have disappeared.
  Secondly and more immediately, there is no doubt in my mind that if 
the Republicans are able to pass this bill, which will soon go to a 
conference committee--this bill that gives huge tax breaks to the top 1 
percent and raises the deficit by $1.4 trillion--there is no doubt in 
my mind that they will suddenly rediscover their great concern about 
deficits and the debt and move directly within the next few months to 
begin the process of cutting programs desperately needed by the working 
families of this country--the elderly, the children, the sick, and the 
poor.
  This is not just Bernie Sanders speculating. This is what the New 
York Times said in a front-page article a few days ago:

       As the tax cut legislation passed by the Senate early 
     Saturday hurtles toward final approval, Republicans are 
     preparing to use the swelling deficits made worse by the 
     package as a rationale to pursue their long-held vision: 
     undoing the entitlements of the New Deal and Great Society, 
     leaving government leaner and the safety net skimpier for 
     millions of Americans.
       Speaker Paul D. Ryan and other Republicans are beginning to 
     express their big dreams publicly, vowing that next year they 
     will move on to changes in Medicare and Social Security. 
     President Trump told a Missouri rally last week, `We're going 
     to go into welfare reform.'

  Let me take this opportunity to translate into English what phrases 
like ``entitlement reform'' or ``welfare reform'' really mean. What 
they mean in reality are massive cuts to Social Security, Medicare, 
Medicaid, education, nutrition programs, affordable housing, and other 
programs desperately needed by a declining middle class. It means that 
after they pass this so-called tax reform bill, which would provide a 
$200,000 tax break to CEOs who make over $16 million a year, they will 
come back to the floor of the Senate and fight for cuts to Social 
Security for senior citizens trying to survive on $12,000 or $13,000 a 
year. So there are massive cuts for millionaires and billionaires in 
their taxes at the same time as they want to cut Social Security, 
Medicare, and Medicaid for struggling seniors.
  ``Entitlement reform'' means that at a time when millions of seniors 
are splitting their pills in half because they cannot afford the 
outrageously high cost of prescription drugs, Republicans want massive 
cuts to Medicare. It means that when two out of every three nursing 
home residents in this country rely on Medicaid to pay for their long-
term care, the Republicans want to make massive cuts to Medicaid.
  We do not know exactly what form these cuts will take. I think that 
is not yet clear. There has been discussion among Republicans about 
raising the retirement age for Social Security to 70 years of age, 
forcing older workers to work years more before they can get their 
earned retirement benefits.

  Maybe they will cut back on cost-of-living increases through a so-
called Chained CPI--a new formulation that means lower benefits not 
only for seniors but for millions of disabled veterans. They apparently 
believe, for those of you on Social Security now, that the COLAs you 
have been getting in recent years are just too high. That zero percent 
increase you got a couple years ago? It is much too high; we have

[[Page S7834]]

to change the formula and lower benefit increases.
  Maybe they will go back to their long-term dream of privatizing 
Medicare and converting it into a voucher program, which will say to 
the elderly in this country: Here is a check for $8,000. You go out and 
find private insurance on your own. I would say good luck to any 
elderly person in this country who is struggling with heart disease or 
cancer. You see what kind of insurance program you are going to get 
with a check for $8,000.
  I would remind my colleagues that many of these proposals were 
included in the budget resolution the Republicans voted for right here 
on the floor of the Senate. This is not speculation; these are issues 
and items that Republicans already voted for. They already voted for a 
$1 trillion cut to Medicaid, which would throw some 15 million 
Americans off of health insurance. They have already voted in the 
budget to cut Medicare by $473 billion. In my view, the last thing we 
should be doing is giving tax breaks to billionaires while cutting 
programs for the most vulnerable people in our country.
  During the campaign, Donald Trump, as a candidate, promised he would 
not cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. He made that promise 
over and over again. I have some charts. Let me quote some of the 
tweets and some of the things Donald Trump said on the campaign trail.
  This is what he said: ``I was the first & only potential GOP 
candidate to state there will be no cuts to Social Security, Medicare & 
Medicaid.''
  On another occasion, he said:

       I'm not a cutter. I'll probably be the only Republican that 
     doesn't want to cut Social Security.

  That was January 24, 2015.

       It's my absolute intention to leave Social Security the way 
     it is. Not increase the age and to leave it as is.

  That was Donald Trump on March 10, 2016.
  Here is another quote:

       You know, Paul [Ryan] wants to knock out Social Security, 
     knock it down, way down. He wants to knock Medicare way down. 
     And, frankly--well, two things. Number one, you're going to 
     lose the election if you're going to do that. . . . Now, I 
     want to get rid of waste, fraud, and abuse. I want to do a 
     lot of things to it that are going to make it much better, 
     actually. But I'm not going to cut it, and I'm not going to 
     raise ages, and I'm not going to do all of the things that 
     they want to do. But they want to really cut it, and they 
     want to cut it very substantially, the Republicans, and I'm 
     not going to do that.

  Before I go on to the next quote, I want to tell Donald Trump that, 
as a candidate, man, he was exactly right. This is what he said on 
March 29, 2016. He said that the Republicans wanted to cut Social 
Security and Medicare and Medicaid.
  Well, Candidate Trump, you were exactly right, because that is now 
what we will see in a few weeks or a few months.
  Another quote from Donald Trump as a candidate:

       Social Security faces a problem: 77 million baby boomers 
     set to retire. Now, I know there are some Republicans who 
     would be just fine with allowing these programs to wither and 
     die on the vine. The way they see it, Social Security and 
     Medicare are wasteful `entitlement programs.' But people who 
     think this way need to rethink their position. It's not 
     unreasonable for people who paid into a system for decades to 
     expect to get their money's worth--that's not an 
     `entitlement,' that's honoring a deal.

  Well, there it is. Candidate Donald Trump said over and over again 
that he would not cut Social Security, that he would not cut Medicare, 
that he would not cut Medicaid. In fact, quite correctly, he predicted 
that the Republicans would try to do exactly that.
  Now I would like to talk directly, if I might, to the President of 
the United States.
  Mr. President, on the campaign trail, over and over again, you said 
that you would not cut Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid. Today, I 
am asking you nothing more than to keep your word. Don't lie to the 
American people.
  Millions of people voted for you because you said you would not cut 
Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. Keep your word. Tell Senate 
Leader McConnell and tell House Speaker Paul Ryan that you will veto 
any legislation that cuts these programs.
  With that, I yield the floor.
  Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cruz). The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII, the postcloture time on Executive Calendar 
No. 495 expire at 4 p.m. today, December 5; and that if confirmed, the 
motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table and the 
President be immediately notified of the Senate's action.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



