

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6354]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                    TRIBUTE TO DONALD AND RITA GALLES

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, today I wish to celebrate the 
St. Anthony Tri-Parish Catholic School Foundation's 2017 honorees, 
Donald Galles and Rita (Murphy) Galles.
   The foundation supports the wonderful work of the St. Anthony Tri-
Parish Catholic School. The school is dedicated to achieving academic 
excellence in a faith-filled community and living a life committed to 
Christian service. Since 1927, the school and staff have provided a 
high standard of academic achievement and Christian values. The school 
provides strong religious and educational leadership to the Casper 
community.
   On October 12, 2017, the foundation will be hosting the sixth annual 
Joy Breakfast and celebrating the school's 90th anniversary, nearly a 
century of educating students. Every year at this event, the foundation 
honors individuals who have made outstanding contributions to the 
school and exemplify the values of the Catholic community. Don Galles 
and Rita (Murphy) Galles are perfect for this honor. Both the Galles 
family and the Murphy family have a long history of supporting Catholic 
education and serving as role models to our community. John and Mari 
Ann Martin, Susie and the late Mick McMurry, and Joe Scott will also be 
recognized at the breakfast for their invaluable contribution and 
dedication to the St. Anthony's Tri-Parish Catholic School Foundation.
   Rita is a caring nurse and dedicated mother. As a native to Casper, 
WY, she attended St. Anthony's Parochial School and graduated from 
Natrona County High School in 1947. Rita then attended the St. Joseph's 
School of Nursing in Denver, CO, and started her nursing career. As a 
nurse, she touched so many lives by caring for the sick and injured. 
While in Denver, she married Dr. Joseph Murphy at the Blessed Sacrament 
Church on November 24, 1953. They were married for 51 years and had 12 
children: Patrick, Mary Ann, Donald, Kevin, Mark, Sheila, Michelle, 
Rita, Kathleen, Maureen, Robert, and Anne. Rita enrolled all 12 of her 
children in St. Anthony's in order to ensure they received an excellent 
academic and religious foundation. With this strong background, her 
children have collectively spent more than 75 years in post-high school 
education.
   Donald is a decorated veteran, accomplished businessman, and loving 
family man. Like Rita, he is a native of Casper, WY, and attended both 
St. Anthony's Parochial School and Natrona County High School. After 
high school, Don joined the U.S. Army's 100th Infantry Division in 
France. He proudly fought for our country on the front lines during 
World War II. Don was seriously wounded while fighting in France. For 
his brave service to our Nation, Don was awarded the Silver Star, the 
Nation's third-highest award for valor. He also received a Bronze Star, 
Purple Heart, and Combat Infantry Badge. After the war, Don attended 
and graduated from Creighton University in Nebraska. It is there that 
he met Ann Christensen, who later became his wife for 55 years. They 
returned to Casper and raised six children: Tom, David, Dona, Laura, 
Karla, and Jeff. Many of their children attended St. Anthony's. In 
Casper, Don had a successful career as a partner with a local oil and 
gas firm. He is also active in the community as a member of the 
Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled American Veterans, the Knights 
of Columbus, and a lifelong member of St. Anthony's Catholic Church.
   The Galles and Murphy families were joined together in 2005. In the 
presence of their children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, Don 
and Rita were married at St. Anthony's Catholic Church on December 29, 
2005. As the place where they first met as children, the church holds 
great memories and a deep personal connection for them both.
   Over the years, Don and Rita have generously contributed their time 
and resources to both the church and school. They have also given back 
to our community in numerous other ways. For example, Don and Rita made 
an essential donation to purchase land and a building to expand the 
Casper Seton House, which assists homeless mothers and children. Their 
kindness, devotion, and generosity are true reflections of their 
character and the values they have passed along to their family.
   It is with great honor that I recognize these outstanding members of 
our Wyoming community. My wife, Bobbi, joins me in extending our 
congratulations to Donald and Rita Galles for receiving this special 
award.

                          ____________________



