

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7219]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I have 10 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct hearing on the following nominations: Anthony Kurta, of 
Montana, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary, and James E. 
McPherson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the 
Army, both of the Department of Defense, and Gregory E. Maggs, of 
Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Armed Forces.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at 9:30 
a.m., in SD-366 to conduct a hearing.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at 9 a.m., in SH-216 to 
conduct hearing on the bill entitled ``Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., in SD-430 to conduct hearing entitled ``Gene Editing 
Technology: Innovation and Impact''.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on S. 1928 and the following nominations: of Eric M. 
Ueland, of Oregon, to be an Under Secretary (Management), Lisa A. 
Johnson, of Washington, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Namibia, 
Sean P. Lawler, of Maryland, to be Chief of Protocol, and to have the 
rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service, Irwin Steven 
Goldstein, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy, 
Rebecca Eliza Gonzales, of Texas, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of 
Lesotho, and routine lists in the Foreign Service, all of the 
Department of State.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the President's Nuclear Authorities.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
SH-219 to conduct a closed hearing.


  Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety, Insurance, and 
                             Data Security

  The Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety, Insurance, 
and Data Security of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate 
on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in SR-253 to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Technology in Agriculture: Data-Driven Farming''.


Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity 
                                 Policy

  The Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International 
Cybersecurity Policy of the Committee on Foreign Relations is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
November 14, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to hold a hearing entitled ``American 
Leadership in the Asia-Pacific, Part 4: View from Beijing.''


              Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety

  The Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety of the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at 10 a.m., in SD-406 to 
conduct hearing on the following legislation: S. 1857, to establish a 
compliance deadline of May 15, 2023, for Step 2 emissions standards for 
new residential wood heaters, new residential hydronic heaters, and 
forced-air furnaces, S. 203, to reaffirm that the Environmental 
Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely for 
competition, S. 839, to allow for judicial review of any final rule 
addressing national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for 
brick and structural clay products or for clay ceramics manufacturing 
before requiring compliance with such rule, and S. 1934, to prevent 
catastrophic failure or shutdown of remote diesel power engines due to 
emission control devices.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have one request for a committee to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. It has the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committee is authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, 
November 14, 2017, to conduct hearing on the nomination of Kirsten M. 
Nielsen, to be Secretary of U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

                          ____________________



