

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9673-H9674]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO OFFER RESOLUTION RAISING A QUESTION OF THE 
                        PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE

  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to clause 2(a)(1) of 
rule IX, I rise to give notice of my intent to raise a question of the 
privileges of the House.
  The form of the resolution is as follows:
  Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United States, of high 
misdemeanors.
  Resolved, that Donald John Trump, President of the United States is 
unfit to be President and is impeached for high misdemeanors, and that 
the following articles of impeachment be exhibited to the Senate:
  Articles of Impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of 
the United States, in the name of itself and of the people of the 
United States, against Donald John Trump, President of the United 
States, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for 
high misdemeanors committed as President constituting harm to American 
society to the manifest injury of the people of the United States:
  Article I.
  In his capacity as President of the United States, unmindful of the 
high duties of his high office and the dignity and proprieties thereof, 
and of the harmony and courtesies necessary for stability within the 
society of the United States, Donald John Trump has with his statements 
done more than insult individuals and groups of Americans, he has 
harmed the society of the United States, brought shame and dishonor to 
the office of President of the United States, sowing discord among the 
people of the United States by associating the majesty and dignity of 
the presidency with causes rooted in White supremacy, bigotry, racism, 
anti-Semitism, White nationalism, or neo-Nazism on one or more of the 
following occasions:
  On August 15, 2017, Donald John Trump made a widely published 
statement characterizing a group of anti-Semites, bigots, racists, 
White nationalists, and Ku Klux Klansmen who rallied in 
Charlottesville, Virginia, as ``very fine people.''
  On August 7, 2017, hate groups returned to Charlottesville, Virginia, 
at the statue of Robert E. Lee, the Confederate general, chanting ``You 
will not replace us!''. Since this event on October 7, the President 
has made many widely published statements about many things, including 
the National Football League, but has not made one widely published 
statement condemning the hate groups for returning to the place where 
an innocent person lost her life at the hands of hate.
  On November 29, 2017, Donald John Trump shared three videos posted by 
a leader of a British political party considered by many to be an 
extremist group. The videos purported to show various violent acts 
committed by Muslims and were entitled: ``Muslim migrant beats up Dutch 
boy on crutches!''; ``Muslim Destroys a Statue of Virgin Mary!''; and 
``Islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death!''. 
The clearly inferable intent of the post was to demonstrate the alleged 
propensity of Muslim immigrants to engage in violent acts. Even if the 
videos showed what they purport to show, in sharing these videos with 
his 43,800,000 followers on Twitter, Donald John Trump's dissemination 
of such material evinces an invidious intent to create division within 
American society.
  In all of this, the aforementioned Donald John Trump, by his 
statements, unmindful of the high duties of his high office and the 
dignities and proprieties thereof, and of the harmony, respect, and 
courtesies necessary for stability within the society of the United 
States, has undermined the integrity of his office, has sown discord 
among the people of the United States, has brought disrepute, contempt, 
ridicule, and disgrace on the Presidency, has acted in a manner 
antithetical to the cause of a just society, has betrayed his trust as 
President to the manifest injury of the people of the United States, 
and committed a high misdemeanor in office.
  Therefore, Donald John Trump by causing such harm to the society of 
the United States is unfit to be President and warrants impeachment, 
trial, and removal from office.
  Article II.
  In his capacity as President of the United States, unmindful of the 
high duties of his high office, of the dignity and proprieties thereof, 
and of the harmony and respect necessary for stability within the 
society of the United States, Donald John Trump has with his statements 
done more than simply insult individuals and groups of Americans. He 
has harmed the American society by publicly casting contempt on 
individuals and groups, inciting hate and hostility, sowing discord 
among the people of the United States, on the basis of race, national 
origin, religion, gender and sexual orientation, on one or more of the 
following occasions:
  On January 27, 2017, Donald John Trump issued Executive Order 13769 
providing for a partial shutdown of immigration from mainly Muslim 
countries, to fulfill a campaign promise that read as follows: Donald 
J. Trump Statement on Preventing Muslim Immigration, New York, New 
York, December 7, 2015. Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and 
complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our 
country's representatives can figure out what's going on, thereby 
casting contempt upon Muslims, inciting hate and hostility, and sowing 
discord among the people of the United States on the basis of religion.
  On July 26, 2017, Donald John Trump made a public statement 
substantially as follows: ``After consultation with my Generals and 
military experts, please be advised that the United States Government 
will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any 
capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive 
and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous 
medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would 
entail,'' and thereby casting contempt on

[[Page H9674]]

transgender individuals, inciting hate and hostility, and sowing 
discord among the people of the United States on the basis of gender.
  On September 23, 2017, Donald John Trump made a public statement 
substantially as follows: Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL 
owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ``Get that son of a 
B-I-T-C-H off the field right now, out, he's fired? He's fired!'', 
thereby casting contempt on professional football players who engaged 
in constitutionally protected protests pertaining to allegations of 
police misconduct with regard to racial minorities, as well as casting 
contempt on the professional players' mothers by calling the mothers 
``B-I-T-C-H-E-S'', effectively calling these mothers ``dogs,'' thereby 
inciting hate and hostility and sowing discord among the people of the 
United States on the basis of race and gender.
  On September 30, 2017, Donald John Trump made a public statement 
substantially as follows: ``They want everything to be done for them 
when it should be a community effort,'' in the aftermath of Hurricane 
Maria, thereby casting contempt on Puerto Rican citizens of the United 
States, inciting hate and hostility, and sowing discord among the 
people of the United States based on national origin and race.
  On October 3, 2017, Donald John Trump made a public statement 
substantially as follows: I hate to tell you, Puerto Rico, but you've 
thrown our budget a little out of whack because we spent a lot of money 
on Puerto Rico, that's fine, we've saved a lot of lives, but Donald 
John Trump did not make similar comments about Texas or Florida in the 
aftermath of Hurricane Harvey or Hurricane Irma, treating the Puerto 
Rican citizens of the United States disparately, thereby casting 
contempt on Puerto Ricans, inciting hate and hostility, and sowing 
discord among the people of the United States based on national origin 
and race.
  On October 19, 2017, Donald John Trump made a public statement 
substantially as follows: ``The Fake News is going crazy with wacky 
Congresswoman Wilson (D), who was SECRETLY on a very personal call, and 
gave a total lie on content!'', thereby casting contempt on an African-
American Member of Congress, inciting hate and hostility, and sowing 
discord among the people of the United States based on gender and race.
  On October 21, 2017, Donald John Trump made a public statement 
substantially as follows: ``I hope the Fake News Media keeps talking 
about Wacky Congresswoman Wilson in that she, as a representative, is 
killing the Democrat Party!'', thereby casting contempt on an African-
American female Member of Congress, inciting hate and hostility, and 
sowing discord among the people of the United States based on gender 
and race.
  On October 22, 2017, Donald John Trump made a public statement 
substantially as follows: ``Wacky Congresswoman Wilson is the gift that 
keeps on giving for the Republican Party, a disaster for Dems. You 
watch her in action & vote R!'', thereby casting contempt on an 
African-American female Member of Congress, inciting hate and 
hostility, and sowing discord among the people of the United States 
based on gender and race.
  In all of this, the aforementioned Donald John Trump has, by his 
statements, brought the high office of President of the United States 
in contempt, ridicule, disgrace, and disrepute; has sown discord among 
the people of the United States; has demonstrated that he is unfit to 
be President; and has betrayed his trust as President of the United 
States to the manifest injury of the people of the United States; and 
has committed a high misdemeanor in office.
  Therefore, Donald John Trump, by causing such harm to the society of 
the United States, is unfit to be President, warrants impeachment, 
trial, and removal from office.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under rule IX, a resolution offered from the 
floor by a Member other than the majority leader or the minority leader 
as a question of the privileges of the House has immediate precedence 
only at a time designated by the Chair within 2 legislative days after 
the resolution is properly noticed.
  Pending that designation, the form of the resolution noticed by the 
gentleman from Texas will appear in the Record at this point.
  The Chair will not at this point determine whether the resolution 
constitutes a question of privilege. That determination will be made at 
the time designated for consideration of the resolution.

                          ____________________



