

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9820-H9821]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            JAMES C. ``BILLY'' JOHNSON POST OFFICE BUILDING

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 4285) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 123 Bridgeton Pike in Mullica Hill, New Jersey, as 
the ``James C. `Billy' Johnson Post Office Building''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 4285

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. JAMES C. ``BILLY'' JOHNSON POST OFFICE BUILDING.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 123 Bridgeton Pike in Mullica Hill, New 
     Jersey, shall be known and designated as the ``James C. 
     `Billy' Johnson Post Office Building''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``James C. `Billy' Johnson Post Office 
     Building''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Montana (Mr. Gianforte) and the gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. Demings) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Montana.


                             General Leave

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and to include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Montana?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4285, introduced by the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. LoBiondo).
  The bill names the United States post office building at 123 
Bridgeton Pike in Mullica Hill, New Jersey, after James C. ``Billy'' 
Johnson.
  Billy Johnson joined the United States Army in 1941 as a private and 
was later commissioned as an officer. Second Lieutenant Johnson was 
killed in action in 1944.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. LoBiondo), who is the sponsor of the bill.

[[Page H9821]]

  

  Mr. LoBIONDO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Montana for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring H.R. 4285, to designate the 
facility of the United States Postal Service located at 123 Bridgeton 
Pike in Mullica Hill, New Jersey, as the James C. ``Billy'' Johnson 
Post Office Building, to the floor for consideration.
  Second Lieutenant Johnson was born and raised in my district in 
Richwood, New Jersey, in 1920. Due to his strong desire to serve his 
country, Billy enlisted as a private in the United States Army in 1941. 
He was later commissioned as an officer.
  He was assigned to the 370th Infantry Regiment, 92nd Division during 
the height of the Italian Campaign in World War II. Second Lieutenant 
Johnson made the ultimate sacrifice for his country when he was 
tragically killed in action in October of 1944.
  It is because of his steadfast commitment to his country, along with 
his valor and dedication to his country, that I support the naming of 
this post office after Second Lieutenant Johnson.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this legislation.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 4285, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located in Mullica Hill, New Jersey, as the James C. ``Billy'' 
Johnson Post Office Building.
  You have heard he was a native of Richwood, New Jersey. He attended 
elementary school at Mullica Hill and graduated from Glassboro High 
School before attending Benedict College. In 1941, he began his 
military service in the United States Army.
  You have heard he was assigned to the Canon Company, the 370th 
Infantry Regiment, 92nd Division. Regretfully, he made the ultimate 
sacrifice in 1944, when he was tragically killed. But his legacy lives 
on. He serves as an inspiration to those who have benefited from his 
sacrifice.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to commemorate the sacrifice 
that Second Lieutenant Johnson made to his country. I urge the passage 
of H.R. 4285.
  Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield back the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Montana (Mr. Gianforte) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 4285.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



