

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9438]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               A SALUTE TO THE BRAVE WOMEN WHO SPEAK OUT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Curtis). The Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Marshall) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, as a practicing obstetrician and 
gynecologist for 25 years, I certainly had a very unique perspective of 
many of the unique challenges faced by women in the workplace.
  For many women, I would see them once a year and, in a very casual 
greeting, ask them how they were and what was new. Once in a while, a 
woman would have a new job, and I would ask her: ``Wow. You had a great 
job. Why did you leave that?'' Too often, the answer was because of 
sexual harassment.
  Now, as a United States Congressman, I think it is important that I 
do more than just listen to these constituents of mine. I was sent here 
to be their voice, to be a strong voice for all of my constituents, and 
especially to draw upon my experiences as an obstetrician and 
gynecologist to be an advocate for women.
  With the strongest and most unequivocal terms I can voice, Mr. 
Speaker, I rise to condemn sexual harassment and assault and those 
cowards who perpetrate it.
  Mr. Speaker, I am also here to salute those brave women who are 
speaking out about their past experiences here on Capitol Hill. These 
women are the victims. They should be treated as very courageous folks 
who are sharing their story to help protect others. In doing so, they 
are not only helping to identify another predator, but they are helping 
the thousands of women who will come after them and work in these 
hallowed Halls.
  By bringing these dark, disgusting secrets to light, they make the 
workplace across America that much of a safer environment for all 
women, something we must not stop working toward, and something we must 
all take responsibility to foster.
  In the plainest terms, I want to make sure all men know that it is 
unacceptable behavior, to not allow your coworkers to perpetrate it, 
and that those who assault or harass women should receive the harshest 
punishment. There is no place in America for this behavior, and we must 
all take responsibility for ensuring it has no place in our offices.
  I would offer up this advice that was given to me many years ago, 
that all men treat every woman as though they were your mother, your 
sister, or your daughter, and let that be your creed when you are 
choosing your words and your actions.
  Let us all take responsibility and use this incredible social moment 
to make a lasting impact for my daughter, our granddaughters behind 
them, and for future generations. It certainly starts with me in my 
office, my sons, my grandsons, the people who work with me, and the 
people I choose to surround myself with. We can all be that shining 
example, and I pray that my colleagues will join me in making this so.

                          ____________________



