

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6639]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO TODD DUNLAP

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Todd 
Dunlap from East Helena, MT. Todd served in the U.S. Navy for 24 years 
as an electronic warfare and cryptology specialist, ultimately 
attaining the rank of master chief petty officer, the highest enlisted 
rank in the Navy. Todd's service included seven deployments overseas in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and other efforts. His work 
supported Special Operations Forces on the ground.
  Todd's service did not end when he left Active Duty. He now works for 
the Montana Department of Veterans Affairs and continues to support 
those who have also served our country. His peers view him as a highly 
skilled professional and subject matter expert, and he has earned a 
reputation for selfless outreach across the State to assist veterans 
and their family members navigate the VA.
  As someone who continues to serve members of the Armed Forces 
community, Todd is receiving a gift from a Montana organization that 
donates a fully outfitted trip to military servicemembers who have 
provided extraordinary service to our country and to those facing life-
threatening illness. I sincerely thank Todd for his continued service 
to our great Nation. He is well-deserving of this recognition. As an 
avid outdoorsman myself, I hope he tags a wonderful elk during his time 
away with family.


                       TRIBUTE TO CHRIS HINDOIEN

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing an exceptional volunteer named Chris Hindoien. 
Chris has helped inform and educate Montanans serving in the National 
Guard or Reserve component, as well as their employers, about the 
rights and responsibilities associated with a military mobilization.
  In August, Chris was recognized by the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense for nearly 4 years of service as the State chairman of the 
Montana Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve, ESGR. For his 
efforts, Chris received the Exceptional Public Service Award. During 
his stretch as chairman, he worked tirelessly to make sure that the 
relationship between military servicemembers and their employers 
remained strong across Big Sky Country. Chris is the son of the late 
Brig. Gen. Gary Hindoien, a former commander of the Montana Air 
National Guard, so his demonstrated commitment to our State and our 
Nation comes as no surprise.
  Montana has a longstanding tradition of public service. Whether it be 
working on an agriculture project as a Peace Corps volunteer or as an 
Army Ranger at the tip of the military spear, the Montana attitude 
towards service to others continues to endure and Chris's work has 
enabled others to serve. Thank you, Chris, for committing your time and 
talent to enable the success of others.

                          ____________________



