

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7485-H7486]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, and Mr. 
             Walz):
       H.R. 3819. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend certain expiring provisions of law administered by the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Budget, and Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned. considered and 
     passed.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Doggett, and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 3820. A bill to permit occupational therapists to 
     conduct the initial assessment visit and complete the 
     comprehensive assessment under a Medicare home health plan of 
     care for certain rehabilitation cases; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Woodall, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, 
             Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Allen, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, and Mrs. Handel):
       H.R. 3821. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 430 Main Street in Clermont, 
     Georgia, as the ``Zachary Addington Post Office''; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON (for himself and Mr. Walker):
       H.R. 3822. A bill to require the Congressional Budget 
     Office to make publicly available the fiscal and mathematical 
     models, data, and other details of computations used in cost 
     analysis and scoring; to the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. BRADY of Texas (for himself, Mr. Shuster, and 
             Mr. Curbelo of Florida):
       H.R. 3823. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     extend authorizations for the airport improvement program, to 
     amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the funding 
     and expenditure authority of the Airport and Airway Trust 
     Fund, to provide disaster tax relief, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, Energy and 
     Commerce, Financial Services, and the Budget, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Babin, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, and Mr. Olson):
       H.R. 3824. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army to 
     submit to Congress a report with respect to dams, reservoirs, 
     lakes, and other water retention facilities in Texas, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 3825. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to harmonize the definitions of employee with the common 
     law; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. FRANKEL of Florida (for herself and Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen):
       H.R. 3826. A bill to amend title XXVIII of the Public 
     Health Service Act to establish a National Advisory Committee 
     on Seniors and Disasters; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Clay, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mr. McGovern, Ms.

[[Page H7486]]

             Moore, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Sires, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Visclosky, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Nolan, Ms. 
             Bass, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Lofgren, and 
             Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 3827. A bill to repeal the authority under the 
     National Labor Relations Act for States to enact laws 
     prohibiting agreements requiring membership in a labor 
     organization as a condition of employment, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER (for herself, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, and Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 3828. A bill to support educational entities in fully 
     implementing title IX and reducing and preventing sex 
     discrimination in all areas of education; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H. Res. 532. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding conduct during a rendition of 
     the National Anthem; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona:
       H. Res. 534. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the people of the Kurdistan Region of 
     Iraq have the right to determine their status as a sovereign 
     country; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Bera, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Ms. Gabbard, and Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas):
       H. Res. 535. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the Republic of India should be a 
     permanent member of the United Nations Security Council; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN (for himself and Ms. Pingree):
       H. Res. 536. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of September 25, 2017, as ``National Lobster 
     Day''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



