

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8144]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Madam President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-68, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Poland for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $200 million. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Greg Kausner
       (For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant General, USA, Director).
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-68

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Poland.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $0 million.
       Other $200 million.
       Total $200 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
       Non-MDE: Follow-on support and sustainment services for 
     Poland's F-16 fleet to include aircraft maintenance; system 
     and software overhauls and upgrades; engine support; spare 
     and repair parts; support and test equipment; publications 
     and technical documentation; U.S. Government and contractor 
     engineering, technical, and logistical support; and other 
     related elements of program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (PL-D-QAW).
       (v) Prior Related Cases. if any: PL-D-QAO, PL-D-QAP, and 
     PL-D-QAI.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered. or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: December 19, 
     2017.
       * A defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

                     Poland--F-16 Follow-on Support

       The Government of Poland has requested to purchase follow-
     on support and sustainment services for its F-16 fleet to 
     include aircraft maintenance; system and overhauls and 
     upgrades; engine support; spare and repair parts; support and 
     test equipment; publications and technical documentation; 
     U.S. Government and contractor engineering, technical, and 
     logistical support; and other related elements of program 
     support. The estimated cost is $200 million.
       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and 
     national security objectives of the United States by helping 
     to improve the security of a NATO ally. Poland continues to 
     be an important force for political stability and economic 
     progress in Central Europe.
       This potential sale will continue the sustainment of 
     Poland's F-16 capability. Poland will have no difficulty 
     absorbing this equipment and support into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       Contracts will be awarded when necessary to provide the 
     defense articles ordered if items ordered are not available 
     from U.S. stock or are to be purchased further in the future. 
     The potential prime contractors will be Harris Corporation of 
     Melbourne, Florida; Boeing of Arlington, Virginia; UTC 
     Aerospace Systems, ISR Systems of Charlotte, North Carolina; 
     Lockheed Martin Missile and Fire Control of Orlando, Florida; 
     Cubic Defense Applications of San Diego, California; L-3 
     Communications of New York, New York; Lockheed Martin Aero of 
     Fort Worth, Texas; Exelis Electronic of Clifton, New Jersey; 
     Northrop Grumman Corporation of Falls Church, Virginia; 
     Raytheon of Waltham, Massachusetts; Honeywell of Morris 
     Plains, New Jersey; Booz Allen Hamilton of McLean, Virginia; 
     and BAE Systems of Arlington, Virginia. There are no known 
     offset agreements proposed in connection with this potential 
     sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     representatives to Poland.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.

                          ____________________



