

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6445-S6448]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such such 
notification, the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale 
may be reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

[[Page S6446]]

  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-16, 
     concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Kuwait for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $29 million. After this letter 
     is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news release 
     to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                Charles W. Hooper,
                                Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         transmittal no. 17-16

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Kuwait.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $27 million.
       Other $2 million.
       Total $29 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Two hundred eighteen (218) M1A1 Abrams Tank Hulls with 
     120mm cannons.
       Two hundred eighteen (218) AGT-1500 (M1 Tank Series) 
     Engines.
       Non-MDE: Also includes transportation and other logistics 
     support.
       (iv) Military Department: Army (UXA).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: KU-B-JAT, KU-B-UKO, KU-B-
     UKN, KU-B-ULB, KU-B-ULX, KU-B-UMK.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: October 16, 2017.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          policy justification

                       Kuwait--M1A1 Abrams Tanks

       The Government of Kuwait has requested a possible sale of 
     two hundred eighteen (218) M1A1 Abrams tank hulls with 120mm 
     cannons and two hundred eighteen (218) AGT-1500 (M1 Tank 
     Series) engines in support of its M1A2 tank recapitalization. 
     Also included are transportation and other logistics support. 
     The estimated cost is $29 million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security of the United States by helping to 
     improve the security of a friendly country. Kuwait plays a 
     large role in U.S. efforts to advance stability in the Middle 
     East, providing basing, access, and transit for U.S. forces 
     in the region.
       This potential sale is associated with Congressional 
     Notification 16-66 which was notified to Congress on December 
     12, 2016, regarding recapitalization of 218 Kuwait M1A2 
     tanks. Subsequent to the notification, Kuwait requested 218 
     M1A1 tank hulls from U.S. inventory be provided and upgraded 
     vice using Kuwait's current fleet of tanks due to its 
     interest in maintaining operational readiness. Kuwait will 
     have no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed 
     forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The M1A1 tank hulls will come from U.S. inventory. There 
     are no known offset agreements proposed in connection with 
     this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     representatives to Kuwait.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         transmittal no. 17-16

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. 120mm Gun. The gun is composed of a 120mm smoothbore gun 
     (cannon) manufactured at Watervliet Arsenal; ``long rod'' 
     Armor-piercing fin-stabilized discarding-sabot (APFSDS) 
     warheads; and combustible cartridge case ammunition. There 
     may be a need to procure/produce new gun cannon tubes from 
     Watervliet Arsenal. New cannons inducted at Anniston Army 
     Depot would be inspected according to established criteria 
     and shipped to Lima Army Tank Plant for the tank upgrade 
     process. The highest level of information that could be 
     disclosed through the sale of this end-item is UNCLASSIFIED.
       2. AGT-1500 Gas Turbine Propulsion System. The use of a gas 
     turbine propulsion system in the M1A2 is a unique application 
     of armored vehicle power pack technology. The hardware is 
     composed of the AGT-1500 engine and transmission and is not 
     classified. Manufacturing processes associated with the 
     production of turbine blades, recuperator, bearings and 
     shafts, and hydrostatic pump and motor are proprietary and 
     therefore commercially competition sensitive. The highest 
     level of information that could be disclosed through the sale 
     of this end-item is UNCLASSIFIED.
       3. All defense articles and services listed on this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Kuwait.
                                  ____

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-54, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to Greece for defense articles and services 
     estimated to cost $2.404 billion. After this letter is 
     delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news release to 
     notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                Charles W. Hooper,
                                Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-54

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Greece.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment *  $.918 billion.
       Other $1.486 billion.
       Total $2.404 billion.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase: The Government of 
     Greece has requested the possible sale of items and services 
     to support the upgrade of up to one hundred twenty-three 
     (123) F-16 aircraft to Block V configuration.
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       One hundred twenty-five (125) APG-83 Active Electronically 
     Scanned Array (AESA) Radars (includes 2 spares).
       One hundred twenty-three (123) Modular Mission Computers 
     (MMCs).
       One hundred twenty-three (123) LINK-16 Multifunctional 
     Information Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio System 
     (MIDS-JTRS) with TACAN and EHSI.
       One hundred twenty-three (123) LN260 Embedded Global 
     Navigation Systems (EGI)-Inertial Navigation System (INS).
       One hundred twenty-three (123) Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing 
     Systems (JHMCS).
       One hundred twenty-three (123) Improved Programmable 
     Display Generators (iPDGs).
       Non-MDE: Included in the possible sale are up to one 
     hundred twenty-three (123) APX-126 Advanced Identification 
     Friend or Foe (AIFF) Combined Interrogator Transponder (CIT); 
     one (1) Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS); one (1) F-16V 
     Simulator; upgrade to two (2) existing simulators; one (1) 
     Avionics Level Test Station; Secure Communications, 
     cryptographic equipment and navigation equipment; upgrade and 
     integration of the Advanced Self-Protection Integrated Suite 
     (ASPIS) I to ASPIS II on twenty-six (26) F-16s; Ground 
     Support System, systems integration and test; spares and 
     repair parts, support and test equipment; personnel training 
     and training equipment; publications and technical 
     documentation; U.S. Government and contractor engineering, 
     logistical, and technical support services; and other related 
     elements of logistics and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (SNY Amendment 6).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: GR-D-SBD, $1.3B, 7 Dec 
     1992; GR-D-SNX, $2B, 9 Mar 2000; GR-D-SNY, $1.9B, 13 Dec 
     2005.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: October 16, 2017.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

   Government of Greece--Upgrade of F-16 Aircraft to an F-16 Block V 
                             Configuration

       The Government of Greece has requested a possible purchase 
     of an upgrade of its existing F-16 fleet to an F-16 Block V 
     configuration which includes up to one hundred twenty-five 
     (125) APG-83 Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) 
     Radars (includes two (2) spares); one hundred twenty-three 
     (123) Modular Mission Computers (MMCs); one hundred twenty-
     three (123) LINK-16 Multifunctional Information Distribution 
     System Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS-JTRS) with TACAN and 
     EHSI; one hundred twenty-three (123) LN260 Embedded Global 
     Navigation Systems (EGI)-Inertial Navigation System (INS); 
     one hundred twenty-three (123)

[[Page S6447]]

     Improved Programmable Display Generators (iPDGs). Also 
     included in the proposed sale are up to one hundred twenty-
     three (123) APX-126 Advanced Identification Friend or Foe 
     (AIFF) Combined Interrogator Transponder (CIT); one (1) Joint 
     Mission Planning System (JMPS); one (1) F-16V Simulator; 
     upgrade to two (2) existing simulators; one (1) Avionics 
     Level Test Station; Secure Communications, cryptographic 
     equipment and navigation equipment; upgrade and integration 
     of the Advanced Self-Protection Integrated Suite (ASPIS) I to 
     ASPIS II on twenty-six (26) F-16s; Ground Support System, 
     systems integration and test; spares and repair parts, 
     support and test equipment; personnel training and training 
     equipment; publications and technical documentation; U.S. 
     Government and contractor engineering, logistical, and 
     technical support services; and other related elements of 
     logistics and program support. The total estimated program 
     cost is $2.404 billion.
       This proposed sale will contribute to U.S. foreign policy 
     and national security objectives by helping to improve the 
     security of a NATO ally which is an important partner for 
     political stability and economic progress in Europe. The 
     upgrade of F-16 aircraft to an F-16 Block V configuration 
     will bolster the Hellenic Air Force's ability to support NATO 
     and remain interoperable with the U.S. and the NATO alliance. 
     It will also help Greece sustain operations in the future, 
     thereby reducing the threat the alliance's enemies pose to 
     the U.S. and the alliance.
       The proposed sale will improve Greece's capability to meet 
     current and future security threats. Greece will use this 
     capability as a deterrent to regional threats, strengthen its 
     homeland defense, and execute counter-terrorism operations.
       Greece currently employs a mix of F-16s in Block 30, Block 
     50, Block 52+, and Block 52+ Advanced configurations. 
     Therefore, Greece will have no difficulty absorbing the 
     upgrade of these aircraft from an operation and support 
     standpoint.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The principal contractor will be Lockheed Martin of Fort 
     Worth, TX. There are currently no known offsets. However, 
     Greece typically requests offsets. Any offset agreement will 
     be defined in negotiations between Greece and the contractor.
       The proposed sale will require the assignment of 
     approximately 3-5 additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     representatives to Greece.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-54

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The proposed sale for upgrade of Greece's F-16s to Block 
     V will involve the release of sensitive and/or classified (up 
     to SECRET) elements to Greece, including hardware, 
     accessories, components, and associated software. The F-16 
     Block V aircraft system is UNCLASSIFIED, except as noted 
     below. The aircraft utilizes the F-16 airframe and features 
     advanced avionics and systems including the AN/APG-83 Active 
     Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) Radar, Modular Mission 
     Computers (MMCs); LINK-16 Multifunctional Information 
     Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio System LINK-16 
     Multifunctional Information Distribution System Joint 
     Tactical Radio System (MIDS-JTRS); Advanced Self-Protection 
     Integrated Suite (ASPIS) II ship-sets; LN260 Embedded Global 
     Navigation Systems (EGI)-Inertial Navigation System (INS); 
     Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems (JHMCS II); Improved 
     Programmable Display Generators (iPDGs); APX-126 Advanced 
     Identification Friend or Foe (AIFF) Combined Interrogator 
     Transponder (CIT); and Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS).
       2. Additional sensitive areas include operating manuals and 
     maintenance technical orders containing performance 
     information, operating and test procedures, and other 
     information related to support operations and repair. The 
     hardware, software, and data identified are classified (up to 
     SECRET) to protect vulnerabilities, design, and performance 
     parameters and other similar critical information.
       3. The AN/APG-83 is an Active Electronically Scanned Array 
     (AESA) radar upgrade for the F-16. It includes higher 
     processor power, higher transmission power, more sensitive 
     receiver electronics, and Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR), 
     which creates higher-resolution ground maps from a greater 
     distance than existing mechanically scanned array radars 
     (e.g., APG-68). The upgrade features an increase in detection 
     range of air targets, increases in processing speed and 
     memory, as well as significant improvements in all modes. The 
     highest classification of the radar is SECRET.
       4. The Modular Mission Computer (MMC) is the central 
     aircraft computer of the F-16. It serves as the hub for all 
     aircraft subsystems and avionics data transfer. The hardware 
     and software are classified SECRET.
       5. The Multifunctional Informational Distribution System-
     Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS-JTRS) is classified 
     CONFIDENTIAL. The MIDS-JTRS is a secure data and voice 
     communication network using Link-16 architecture. The system 
     provides enhanced situational awareness, positive 
     identification of participants within the network, secure 
     fighter-to-fighter connectivity, secure voice capability, and 
     ARN-118 TACAN functionality. It provides three major 
     functions: Air Control, Wide Area Surveillance, and Fighter-
     to-Fighter. The MIDS-JTRS can be used to transfer data in 
     Air-to-Air, Air-to-Surface, and Air-to-Ground scenarios. The 
     MIDS terminal hardware, publications, performance 
     specifications, operational capability, parameters, 
     vulnerabilities to countermeasures, and software 
     documentation are classified CONFIDENTIAL. The classified 
     information to be provided consists of that which is 
     necessary for the operation, maintenance, and repair (through 
     intermediate level) of the data link terminal, installed 
     systems, and related software.
       6. The Advanced Self-Protection Integrated Suite II (ASPIS 
     II) is an enhanced version of the original ASPIS I integrated 
     Electronic Warfare (EW) system, which provides passive radar 
     warning, wide spectrum Radio Frequency (RF) jamming, and 
     control and management of the entire EW system. It is an 
     externally mounted EW pod. The suite includes an ALQ-187 EW 
     System, ALR-93 Radar Warning Receiver, and ALE-47 
     Countermeasure Dispenser System. Greece has upgraded ASPIS I 
     to II on all but a remaining twenty-six jets. The 
     commercially developed system software and hardware are 
     UNCLASSIFED. The system is classified SECRET when loaded with 
     a U.S. derived EW database.
       7. The Embedded Global Positioning System (EGI)--Inertial 
     Navigation System (INS)/LN-260 is a sensor that combines 
     Global Positioning System (GPS) and inertial sensor inputs to 
     provide accurate location information for navigation and 
     targeting. The EGI-INS/LN-260 is UNCLASSIFIED. The GPS 
     cryptovariable keys needed for highest GPS accuracy are 
     classified up to SECRET.
       8. The Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System (JHMCS) is a 
     modified HGU-55/P helmet that incorporates a visor-projected 
     Heads-Up Display (HUD) to cue weapons and aircraft sensors to 
     air and ground targets. In close combat, a pilot must 
     currently align the aircraft to shoot at a target. JHMCS 
     allows the pilot to simply look at a target to shoot. This 
     system projects visual targeting and aircraft performance 
     information on the back of the helmet's visor, enabling the 
     pilot to monitor this information without interrupting his 
     field of view through the cockpit canopy. The system uses a 
     magnetic transmitter unit fixed to the pilot's seat and a 
     magnetic field probe mounted on the helmet to define helmet 
     pointing positioning. A Helmet Vehicle Interface (HVI) 
     interacts with the aircraft system bus to provide signal 
     generation for the helmet display. This provides significant 
     improvement for close combat targeting and engagement. 
     Hardware is UNCLASSIFIED; technical data and documents are 
     classified up to SECRET.
       9. The Improved Programmable Display Generator (iPDG) and 
     color multifunction displays utilize ruggedized commercial 
     liquid crystal display technology that is designed to 
     withstand the harsh environment found in modern fighter 
     cockpits. The display generator is the fifth generation 
     graphics processor for the F-16. Through the use of state-of-
     the-art microprocessors and graphics engines, it provides 
     orders of magnitude increases in throughput, memory, and 
     graphics capabilities. The hardware and software are 
     UNCLASSIFIED.
       10. The AN/APX-126 Advanced Identification Friend or Foe 
     (AIFF) Combined Interrogator Transponder (CIT) is a system 
     capable of transmitting and interrogating Mode V. It is 
     UNCLASSIFIED unless/until Mode IV and/or Mode V operational 
     evaluator parameters are loaded into the equipment. Elements 
     of the IFF system classified up to SECRET include software 
     object code, operating characteristics, parameters, and 
     technical data. Mode IV and Mode V anti-jam performance 
     specifications/data, software source code, algorithms, and 
     tempest plans or reports will not be offered, released, 
     discussed, or demonstrated.
       11. The Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS) is a multi-
     platform PC based mission planning system. JMPS hardware is 
     UNCLASSIFIED and the software is classified up to SECRET.
       12. Software, hardware, and other data/information, which 
     is classified or sensitive, is reviewed prior to release to 
     protect system vulnerabilities, design data, and performance 
     parameters. Some end-item hardware, software, and other data 
     identified above are classified at the CONFIDENTIAL and 
     SECRET level. Potential compromise of these systems is 
     controlled through management of the basic software programs 
     of highly sensitive systems and software-controlled weapon 
     systems on a case-by-case basis.
       13. If a technologically advanced adversary obtains 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software source code 
     in this proposed sale, the information could be used to 
     develop countermeasures or equivalent systems that might 
     reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the 
     development of a system with similar or advanced 
     capabilities.
       14. Greece is both willing and able to protect U.S. 
     classified military information. Greek physical and document 
     security standards are equivalent to U.S. standards. Greece 
     has signed a General Security of Military Information 
     Agreement (GSOMIA) with the United States and is in 
     negotiations with CENTCOM on the Communications 
     Interoperability and Security Memorandum of Agreement 
     (CISMOA). The Government of

[[Page S6448]]

     Greece has demonstrated its willingness and capability to 
     protect sensitive military technology and information 
     released to its military in the past.
       15. A determination has been made that the Greece can 
     provide substantially the same degree of protection for the 
     sensitive technology being released as the U.S. Government. 
     This sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign 
     policy and national security objectives outlined in the 
     Policy Justification.
       16. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Greece.

                          ____________________



