

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6976]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               TAX REFORM

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on another matter, the Obama years were 
not easy for America's middle class. For many, steady work became 
harder to find, paychecks stagnated, and opportunities faded. America's 
middle class deserves better after a decade of drift, and we are 
working hard to deliver for them.
  Tax reform is the single most important thing we can do today to get 
the economy reaching for its true potential again. That is why the 
Senate recently passed the legislative tools to advance it. That is why 
the House recently did the same. And because we did, later today, after 
months of hard work, the House's tax-writing committee will unveil its 
version of tax reform legislation.
  I commend Chairman Brady and the members of the Ways and Means 
Committee for their hard work in unveiling this critical legislation 
today. This announcement is more positive momentum from our colleagues 
over in the House, and I look forward to continued work with them as we 
move forward. Here in the Senate, the Finance Committee will continue 
its work on tax reform legislation as well.
  Both Chambers are working on this at full steam because we are 
committed to achieving our mutual tax reform goals for the middle 
class, working families, and small businesses. Our main goal is this: 
We want to take more money out of Washington's pockets and put more in 
yours. This goal is shared by the American people, it is shared by the 
President and his team, and it is shared by Republicans in the House 
and in the Senate.
  The goals of tax reform used to be shared by our Democratic 
colleagues as well. Over many years, multiple Senate Democrats, 
including the Democratic leader himself, have called on Congress to 
pass reform. But then something changed. It was the President who 
changed, it seems.
  Now we are reading reports that our friends across the aisle plan to 
oppose any tax reform bill at all, regardless of what is in it. It 
seems that Democratic leadership is praying that this chance to put 
more money in the pockets of the middle class will not succeed. But 
why? To protect incentives and encourage companies to ship jobs 
overseas? I thought they were against those. To prevent working 
families from keeping more of what they earn? I assumed we were all for 
that. According to recent news reporting, Democrats apparently want to 
tank tax cuts for the middle class because it might give them a 
political leg up. In other words, it seems that this is some kind of 
game to them.
  I certainly hope what we read is not true. I certainly hope Democrats 
will take note of the fact that their latest false talking point about 
tax reform just got debunked today as well. This effort is way too 
important for any of that. I hope our friends will decide to work with 
our colleagues in a serious way instead. That is what their 
constituents sent them here to do, and that is what their constituents 
deserve after the last decade of economic disappointment. There is no 
reason for our Democratic friends not to work across the aisle in a 
serious way to help shape this critically important effort.
  I thank Chairman Hatch and Chairman Brady for their commitment to tax 
reform and regular order. Through the committee process, Members on 
both sides of the aisle will have the opportunity to offer input as the 
tax reform effort advances. Today's announcement is an important step 
forward for that process, as well as for our once-in-a-generation 
opportunity to fundamentally rethink our Tax Code and deliver real 
relief. It has been 30 years since we did that. It is time to do it 
again.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



