

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5882]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REMEMBERING PETE DOMENICI

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I would like to take this time today to 
honor the life of one of our former colleagues and my friend, Pete 
Domenici of New Mexico. Pete had a long and memorable career and left 
an important legacy on this institution, of which his family can be 
proud.
  Pete dedicated the majority of his life to advocating for the 
betterment of his home State and this Nation he loved so much. He 
started his career in public service after his election to the 
Albuquerque City Commission in 1968. He then took up the challenge to 
serve the people of his home State in Congress and was elected to the 
Senate in 1972. Pete served the people of New Mexico for 36 years, 
becoming the longest serving Senator in New Mexico history in the 
process.
  During his career, Pete was chairman of the Senate Energy Committee 
and twice the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. His adherence to 
fiscal responsibility eventually led to the passing of a balanced 
budget during his chairmanship.
  He accomplished a great deal over the years in the Senate. His 
heartfelt concern and his dedication to his principles guided his work 
on every issue that came before him. Through it all, his core values 
served as his inner compass and kept him in tune with the thinking of 
the people of New Mexico, who elected him to the Senate six separate 
times. I was fortunate enough to serve with Pete and, through our 12 
shared years in the Senate together, came to admire his commitment to 
serving our great Nation.
  During my time as ranking member of the Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions--HELP--Committee, I was able to see up close Pete and his wife 
Nancy's lifelong commitment to mental health. Through his hard work and 
determination, the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health 
Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008 was enacted into law.
  His pragmatism was one of the many qualities Pete displayed everyday 
while working to improve the lives of all Americans. Pete's ability to 
form meaningful relationships with every person he met was why he was 
so trusted by Members on both sides of the aisle.
  Among Pete's reasons to not seek a seventh term was his diagnosis of 
frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Through his fight against his 
debilitating disease, he was an inspiration to many. He did not let 
this slow him down. After his retirement from the Senate, Pete 
continued to work tirelessly for the advancement of the causes he cared 
so dearly about.
  We now celebrate the life of Pete Domenici. Pete was many things in 
his life: a college baseball player, a Senator, an author, a husband, a 
father, a grandfather, and even a great-grandfather.
  Diana joins in sending our heartfelt sympathy to the Domenici family. 
Pete has been a role model to so many for so many years, including me. 
He loved life, and he loved sharing it with his family and friends. 
Those who knew him will always remember his dedication, his 
selflessness, and his ability to solve problems. He will never be 
forgotten. God bless.

                          ____________________



