

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6128-S6129]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              CLIMATE WEEK

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I wish to voice my support for the 
eighth annual Climate Week NYC, which took place in New York City from 
September 18 to 24. The 2017 Climate Week brought together businesses, 
governments, academics, civil society, and other stakeholders to 
advance international action and cooperation to better understand the 
science and challenges of climate change and to plan and execute 
actions to address this ever-evolving crisis facing humanity. Climate 
Week traditionally occurs during the U.N. General Assembly in support 
of enhanced dialogue to advance international cooperation between 
nations and, since 2015, to ensure the success of the Paris agreement.
  As the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I 
strongly believe climate diplomacy must be a top priority for U.S. 
foreign policy. Climate change poses an imminent and long-term threat 
to not only our national security and economic success, but also the 
long-lasting prosperity of this country. Addressing this crisis 
requires collective action and cooperation by local and national 
representatives, small and large businesses, and every one of us. If 
the U.S. is to maintain our status as the world's superpower, it is in 
our best interest to lead the global effort to address the serious 
challenges posed by climate change. When America leads, we not only 
protect and enhance our own interests, but we have the unique ability 
to bring others along and help forge consensus, but regardless of 
whether the U.S. continues to lead or if we retreat, as the President's 
decision to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement suggests he is 
interested in doing, the rest of the world has made it quite clear that 
they plan to press ahead with or without us.
  That is a sad day for America's global leadership. Moreover, it is 
foolish to believe that the collaborative policies and multilateral 
efforts around reducing global emissions will not affect the United 
States simply because we choose not to participate.
  For example, the Trump administration refused to participate in the 
development of the G20's ``Hamburg Climate and Energy Action Plan for 
Growth,'' which outlines a global economic partnership plan for a clean 
energy future. This week, Canada, the EU, and China are hosting a 
climate ministerial meeting of 30 major and emerging economies in 
Montreal to develop multilateral actions to advance the implementation 
of the Paris agreement. Fortunately, the administration will be 
represented at this ministerial event, but not at the same levels of 
power as most other countries participating. Moreover, the U.S. is 
merely participating, when it would best serve of our interests to lead 
an engagement like this, where we could be steering the agenda, as 
opposed to ceding such leadership to China.
  Increased global demand for clean energy and the incorporation of 
carbon accounting into world markets are clear signals that the global 
economy is on a low-carbon trajectory. If we stand on the sidelines as 
these changes in international economics take shape--with Syria and 
Nicaragua as the only other nations not party to the agreement--we will 
be the loser.
  Denying the scientific and real world evidence of climate change is 
irresponsible, and it is equally irresponsible to deny or ignore the 
economic shifts occurring around the world as a result of international 
efforts to combat climate change.
  Climate change is real. The science is indisputable. While hurricanes 
have always happened this time of year over the North Atlantic and Gulf 
of Mexico, changes in the global climate--because of increased carbon 
emissions into the atmosphere from human activity--have created warmer 
atmospheric and surface water conditions that are increasing the 
likelihood of intensely powerful hurricanes.
  We have seen the destruction caused by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and 
Maria and the devastating effects they have brought to millions of 
Americans. My thoughts and prayers go out to all those affected. First 
and foremost, our country must assist and provide relief to those 
affected. That includes our citizens and their neighbors in the 
Caribbean.
  As we come together as a nation to help survivors in need now, we 
must also act to reduce future risks and protect more people from 
becoming victims in the future. That means acknowledging the reality of 
climate change and acting to reduce pollution that has been 
scientifically proven to be changing our environment and causing the 
increased intensity of extreme weather events like hurricanes, 
droughts, and wildfires.
  In addition to the rises in sea levels, record-breaking droughts are 
plaguing regions in the Mediterranean, Middle East, and East Africa. 
NASA's ongoing research on climate change shows the significance of 
human-induced climate change, threatening our national security and our 
socioeconomic and diplomatic ties across the world. Reviewing the 
evidence we are presented with, it is clear the only way we can tackle 
climate change is through global leadership and action based on science 
and based on the urgency of preserving our way of life.

[[Page S6129]]

  Here at home, every city and State bears some risk from the effects 
of climate change. Fortunately, many State and local and private sector 
leaders recognize this reality. Despite the absence of leadership from 
the Trump administration, these individuals and the States, localities, 
and businesses they represent across many sectors are taking a stand 
against the national security threats posed by climate change.
  Even though the President's actions on the Paris agreement are 
demoralizing, this by no means equals defeat for our Nation and the 
rest of the world.
  One way to show other nations we are indeed committed to this global 
cause is to join them by building on the progress we have made here in 
our own country from the local to national level. Domestic climate 
change and clean energy policy, including substantial investments in 
clean energy research, development, and production, have made the U.S. 
an incubator for investment and entrepreneurship. Creating a robust 
domestic market helps companies develop credible track records, skilled 
workforces, and scalable products to export around the world to a 
market hungry for clean energy solutions. This is where domestic action 
intersects with U S. ``climate diplomacy.''
  We should look toward U.S. corporations that are shifting to cleaner 
technology as an illustration of our continued fight against climate 
change. U.S. political leadership in innovation and technology combined 
with increased global demand for clean energy technology can help 
create transformational job growth opportunities across the United 
States. Each day we dither on making the right political choices on 
clean energy is a day we lose global clout to China, India, and other 
nations who are racing to fill the void our current retreat has 
created.
  As we look to be more resilient to climate change, our global 
partners have already started to combat the issues through innovation 
and adaptation. For example, Holland's recent shift to innovate against 
flooding is a good example of how other nations are actively working to 
adapt to climate change and create financial opportunities.
  Holland's shift to high-tech water management systems will protect 
against future flooding and scarcity of freshwater sources. These are 
technologies that the Dutch will likely export to other nations and 
regions at risk of flooding, so the Dutch will profit from the 
investments they have made and the experiences they have gained taking 
prudent measures to protect themselves against the effects of sea level 
rise.
  This strategic measure sets an example for how the U.S. should work 
collectively with businesses and local governments to set aside funding 
proactively for future climate change mitigation and adaptation. Taking 
this sort of action would not only benefit my home State of Maryland 
because of its low coastal geography, but also States like New York and 
South Carolina.
  According to the New York City Department of Environmental 
Protection, Manhattan and the other boroughs have experienced a 
significant increase in flooding events, attributable to local sea 
levels having risen an average of 1.2 inches per decade since 1900, a 
trend that will only worsen without decisive action to stabilize 
Earth's climate. There is no doubt that adapting our infrastructure to 
withstand the effects of climate change will provide substantial 
benefits to our communities and our economy.
  We are fortunate that some corporations such as the members of the 
Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable, BIER, are stepping up to 
reduce carbon emissions. BIER's commitment to reduce energy consumption 
and better manage water resources are important examples of how U.S. 
industry is demonstrating leadership in advancing environmental 
sustainability and addressing environmental challenges.
  More than 900 U.S. businesses support keeping the U.S. in the Paris 
agreement, including more than 20 Fortune 500 companies. American 
businesses need the U.S. Government at the negotiating table to 
represent their interests. Acting to prevent the worst effects of 
climate change holds tremendous economic and job growth opportunities 
for Maryland and our Nation. Such an ambitious global goal can only be 
achieved through strategic action starting at the local level, 
supported by a Congress and President through policy and political 
courage.
  Fighting climate change is essential to U.S. national security 
interests and to growing U.S. economic opportunities. Meanwhile, the 
world continues to look to us for leadership. I remain motivated to 
join my colleagues and people across the country to fight global 
climate change so that we can demonstrate our Nation's commitment to 
leading climate diplomacy and to maintain the American private sector's 
strength in a changing global economy.

                          ____________________



