

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6404-S6405]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown), the Senator 
from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. 
Boozman) were added as cosponsors of S. 58, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost 
employer-sponsored health coverage.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early detection, 
diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
infants, and young children.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the extension of the 
Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased payments 
under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 948

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 948, a bill to designate as 
wilderness certain Federal portions of the red rock canyons of the 
Colorado Plateau and the Great Basin Deserts in the State of Utah for 
the benefit of present and future generations of people in the United 
States.


                                S. 1014

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1014, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to eligible organizations 
to provide service dogs to veterans with severe post-traumatic stress 
disorder, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1064, a bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act to prohibit the stigmatization of children who are 
unable to pay for meals.


                                S. 1113

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1113, a 
bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the 
safety of cosmetics.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1169, a bill to amend 
title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide States with an option 
to provide medical assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 
64 for inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at certain 
facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1453

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1453, a bill 
to allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to designate 
certain substance use disorder treatment facilities as eligible for 
National Health Service Corps service.


                                S. 1498

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) and the Senator from California (Ms. Harris) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1498, a bill to establish in the Smithsonian 
Institution a comprehensive American women's history museum, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1568, a bill to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1595, a bill to amend the Hizballah 
International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose additional 
sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1690

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1690, a bill 
to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide greater support to 
students with dependents, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1691

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1691, a bill to 
provide minimal cybersecurity operational standards for Internet-
connected devices purchased by Federal agencies, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1753

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1753, a bill to amend the 
S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 to provide a temporary license 
for loan originators transitioning between employers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1783

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1783, a bill to amend the 
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each State to 
implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years of age may 
apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in the State, 
to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants to States 
to increase the involvement of minors in public election activities, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1806

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1806, a bill to amend the 
Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 and the Head Start 
Act to promote child care and early learning, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1823

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1823, a bill to amend the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to 
clarify that houses of worship are eligible for certain disaster relief 
and emergency assistance on terms equal to other eligible private 
nonprofit facilities, and for other purposes.

[[Page S6405]]

  



                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, supra.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the 
Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) were added as cosponsors of S. 1829, a bill to amend title 
V of the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, Infant, and Early 
Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill to provide for 
wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1859

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1859, a bill to extend the 
moratorium on the annual fee on health insurance providers.


                                S. 1911

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1911, a bill to amend 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer 
certain funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1922

  At the request of Mr. Heller, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1922, a bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to protect pain-
capable unborn children, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 5, a joint 
resolution removing the deadline for the ratification of the equal 
rights amendment.


                              S. RES. 278

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 278, a 
resolution expressing condolences to the victims of Hurricane Harvey, 
Hurricane Irma, and Hurricane Maria, commending the resiliency of the 
people of Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the United States 
Virgin Islands, and expressing gratitude to other neighboring States 
willing to stand by the people of the affected areas during the relief 
and recovery efforts.

                          ____________________



