

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8384-H8385]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BRADY of Texas:
       H.R. 4200. A bill to provide for temporary funding for 
     health insurance cost-sharing reduction payments and provide 
     targeted tax relief, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself 
             and Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4201. A bill to improve the ability of beginning 
     farmers in the United States to acquire farms and participate 
     in agricultural production, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Nolan, 
             Mr. Sherman, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Knight, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, and Mr. Buchanan):
       H.R. 4202. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act to 
     prohibit animal fighting in United States territories; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 4203. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
     with regard to stalking; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARCHANT:
       H.R. 4204. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for International Regulated Investment 
     Companies; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself, Mr. Luetkemeyer, and Mr. 
             Perlmutter):
       H.R. 4205. A bill to amend the Federal Financial 
     Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 to establish a 
     three-judge independent examination review panel; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Marchant, 
             and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 4206. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to modernize the physician self-referral 
     prohibitions to promote care coordination in the merit-based 
     incentive payment system and to facilitate physician practice 
     participation in alternative payment models under the 
     Medicare program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 4207. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to reinstate the returning worker exemption for H-2B 
     visas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Amodei):

[[Page H8385]]

  

       H.R. 4208. A bill to reduce the risk posed by wildfires to 
     communities and the most at-risk federally owned forests; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for himself, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Carbajal, 
             Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Cohen, Mr. DeFazio, Mrs. 
             Demings, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. Blunt Rochester, and Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 4209. A bill to rebuild the Nation's infrastructure, 
     provide a consumer rebate to the American people, assist coal 
     country, reduce harmful pollution, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, Energy and 
     Commerce, Agriculture, Education and the Workforce, Natural 
     Resources, and Science, Space, and Technology, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MARSHALL:
       H.R. 4210. A bill to increase the maximum amount of 
     assistance authorized under supplemental agricultural 
     disaster assistance programs for livestock indemnity 
     payments, livestock forage disaster assistance, and emergency 
     assistance for livestock, honey bee, and farm-raised fish 
     losses; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. MARSHALL:
       H.R. 4211. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     provide to producers partial payments under the livestock 
     indemnity program for livestock sold for salvage; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. MARSHALL:
       H.R. 4212. A bill to amend the Agricultural Credit Act of 
     1978 to increase support for conservation practices under the 
     emergency conservation program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. MARSHALL:
       H.R. 4213. A bill to amend the Agricultural Credit Act of 
     1978 to establish a program to provide advance payments under 
     the Emergency Conservation Program for the repair or 
     replacement of fencing; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK:
       H.R. 4214. A bill to repeal the Western Area Power 
     Administration borrowing authority, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mr. Kind, Ms. Matsui, and 
             Mr. Bilirakis):
       H.R. 4215. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to ensure that providers of services receive 
     adequate payments for the acquisition of hematopoietic stem 
     cells under the Medicare program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SABLAN:
       H.R. 4216. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     make available additional funds for the Commonwealth of the 
     Northern Mariana Islands pilot project; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. SCHWEIKERT (for himself and Mr. Walker):
       H.R. 4217. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to eliminate the deduction for living expenses incurred 
     by members of Congress; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. TENNEY:
       H.R. 4218. A bill to amend section 201 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to redefine the term official act in bribery 
     cases involving public officials to strengthen accountability 
     and oversight; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Engel, Mr. Yoho, 
             and Mr. Sherman):
       H. Con. Res. 89. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress with respect to United States policy toward Tibet 
     and that the treatment of the Tibetan people should be an 
     important factor in the conduct of United States relations 
     with the People's Republic of China; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KHANNA (for himself and Mr. McGovern):
       H. Res. 599. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives with respect to United States policy 
     towards Yemen, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona (for himself, Mrs. Lawrence, 
             Mr. Aderholt, Ms. Bass, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Bishop of 
             Utah, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mrs. Black, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Calvert, 
             Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Comer, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Mr. Cooper, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Evans, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Gallagher, Ms. 
             Granger, Mr. Grothman, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. 
             Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Huizenga, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Johnson of Louisiana, Mr. Jones, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
             King of New York, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Long, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Mr. Marino, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Mullin, 
             Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. 
             Posey, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Rush, Mr. Stivers, Mr. 
             Valadao, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Wenstrup, and Mr. Wittman):
       H. Res. 602. A resolution expressing support for the goals 
     of National Adoption Day and National Adoption Month by 
     promoting national awareness of adoption and the children 
     awaiting families, celebrating children and families involved 
     in adoption, and encouraging the people of the United States 
     to secure safety, permanency, and well-being for all 
     children; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



