

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6284]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   RECOGNIZING THE UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY'S MAXWELL H. GLUCK EQUINE 
                            RESEARCH CENTER

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to mark the 30th 
anniversary of the University of Kentucky's Maxwell H. Gluck Equine 
Research Center. The city of Lexington, KY, known as the Horse Capital 
of the World, is the proud home to the Gluck Center dedicated to 
scientific research and education. Because of its cutting-edge 
research, the center is internationally renowned and a destination for 
students, faculty, and members of the equine industry.
  Since the center's founding in 1986, it has made significant 
contributions to the field of equine study. As part of the university's 
College of Agriculture, Food, and Environment, the faculty at the Gluck 
Center are also committed to the education of the next generation of 
veterinarians and researchers.
  The Gluck Center's success would be impossible without the vision of 
its founder and namesake, Maxwell Gluck. With his wife, Muriel, the 
Glucks encouraged the university to establish the center and grow UK's 
connection to the equine industry, which is vital to the economy and 
culture of the Commonwealth.
  I would like to extend my congratulations to the director of the 
Gluck Center, Dr. David Horohov, and the chair of the Gluck Foundation, 
Dr. Stuart Brown. Under their leadership, this center has continued to 
grow and earn acclaim from all levels of the equine industry. Their 
efforts, along with those of UK's administration, including President 
Eli Capilouto and college dean Nancy Cox, have helped to fulfill 
Maxwell and Muriel Gluck's vision.
  To mark this milestone, the center is hosting a seminar and open 
house featuring the inaugural ``Teri Lear Memorial Lecture,'' which 
will honor the life and scholarly legacy of Dr. Teri Lear, a beloved UK 
professor of veterinary science who passed away last year. Dr. Lear was 
one of the foremost experts of equine cytogenetics and helped lead the 
Horse Genome Project. This lecture series will continue to build upon 
the center's reputation for excellence in research.
  In addition to the lecture, the Gluck Center will also host a 
celebration to honor one of its faculty members, Dr. Peter Timoney, for 
a career of international accomplishment in the field of equine 
infectious disease treatment. Dr. Timoney previously served as the 
director of the Gluck Center from 1989 to 2006 and is also the past 
president of the World Equine Veterinary Association. I would like to 
add my voice to the chorus of congratulations to Dr. Timoney for his 
accomplished career, and I look forward to his continued contributions 
to his field.
  For 30 years, this center has helped lead in equine research. I am 
proud to join the UK community to celebrate the Gluck Equine Research 
Center and its many contributions to the Commonwealth of Kentucky and 
to the industry. I urge my colleagues to help me commemorate this 
occasion, and I look forward to many more achievements from the Gluck 
Center.

                          ____________________



