

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H101-H108]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      READING OF THE CONSTITUTION

  The SPEAKER. Pursuant to section 5(a) of House Resolution 5, the 
Chair now recognizes the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Goodlatte) for 
the reading of the Constitution.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, this morning, for the fourth time in the 
history of the House of Representatives, we will read aloud on the 
floor of the House the full text of the U.S. Constitution.
  It is our hope that this reading will help demonstrate to the 
American people that the House of Representatives is dedicated to the 
Constitution and the system it establishes for limited government and 
the protection of individual liberty. We also hope that it will inspire 
many more Americans to read the Constitution themselves.
  The text we will read today reflects the changes to the document made 
by the 27 amendments to it. Those portions superseded by amendment will 
not be read.
  In order to ensure fairness to all those interested in participating, 
we have asked Members to line up to be recognized on a first-come, 
first-served basis. I will recognize Members based on this guidance. 
Each Member will approach the podium and read the passage laid out for 
him or her.

  In order to ensure relative parity and fairness, I may recognize 
Members out of order in order to ensure bipartisanship and balance. 
Additionally, because of his long-term leadership on civil rights 
issues, I will recognize the gentleman from Georgia, Representative 
John Lewis, to read the Thirteenth Amendment.
  I want to thank the Members of both parties for their participation 
in this historic event. I will begin by reading the preamble to the 
Constitution:
  ``We the People of the United States, in order to form a more perfect 
Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the 
common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings 
of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this 
Constitution for the United States of America.''
  I now yield to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Hultgren).
  Mr. HULTGREN. Article I, section 1:
  ``All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress 
of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of 
Representatives.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson 
Lee).
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Section 2:
  ``The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen 
every second year by the people of the several States, and the electors 
in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of 
the most numerous branch of the State legislature.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Maine (Mr. 
Poliquin).
  Mr. POLIQUIN. ``No person shall be a Representative who shall not 
have attained to the age of twenty-five years, and been seven years a 
citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an 
inhabitant of that State in which he shall be chosen.
  ``The actual enumeration shall be made within three years after the 
first meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every 
subsequent term of ten years, in such manner as they shall by law 
direct.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
Walz).
  Mr. WALZ. ``The number of Representatives shall not exceed one for 
every thirty-thousand, but each State shall have at least one 
Representative; and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of 
New Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts eight, 
Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New-York 
six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one,

[[Page H102]]

Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five, South Carolina five, 
and Georgia three.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
Lance).
  Mr. LANCE. ``When vacancies happen in the representation from any 
State, the executive authority thereof shall issue writs of election to 
fill such vacancies.
  ``The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker and other 
officers; and shall have the sole power of impeachment.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gene 
Green).
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Section 3:
  ``The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators 
from each State, for six years; and each Senator shall have one vote.
  ``Immediately after they shall be assembled in consequence of the 
first election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three 
classes.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Bost).
  Mr. BOST. ``The seats of the Senators of the first class shall be 
vacated at the expiration of the second year, of the second class at 
the expiration of the fourth year, and of the third class at the 
expiration of the sixth year, so that one-third may be chosen every 
second year.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Cardenas).
  Mr. CARDENAS. ``No person shall be a Senator who shall not have 
attained to the age of thirty years, and been nine years a citizen of 
the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an inhabitant of 
that State for which he shall be chosen.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gohmert).
  Mr. GOHMERT. ``The Vice President of the United States shall be 
President of the Senate, but shall have no vote, unless they be equally 
divided.
  ``The Senate shall chuse their other officers, and also a President 
pro tempore, in the absence of the Vice President, or when he shall 
exercise the office of President of the United States.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from California (Ms. 
Barragan).
  Ms. BARRAGAN. ``The Senate shall have the sole power to try all 
impeachments. When sitting for that purpose, they shall be on oath or 
affirmation. When the President of the United States is tried, the 
Chief Justice shall preside: and no person shall be convicted without 
the concurrence of two thirds of the Members present.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Loudermilk).

                              {time}  1015

  Mr. LOUDERMILK. ``Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not extend 
further than to removal from office, and disqualification to hold and 
enjoy any office of honor, trust or profit under the United States: but 
the party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to 
indictment, trial, judgment and punishment, according to law.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
Lipinski).
  Mr. LIPINSKI. Section 4:
  ``The times, places and manner of holding elections for Senators and 
Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the legislature 
thereof; but the Congress may at any time by law make or alter such 
regulations, except as to the places of chusing Senators.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
Griffith).
  Mr. GRIFFITH. Section 5:
  ``Each House shall be the judge of the elections, returns and 
qualifications of its own Members, and a majority of each shall 
constitute a quorum to do business; but a smaller number may adjourn 
from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the attendance of 
absent Members, in such manner, and under such penalties as each House 
may provide.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Walberg).
  Mr. WALBERG. ``Each House may determine the rules of its proceedings, 
punish its Members for disorderly behaviour, and, with the concurrence 
of two thirds, expel a Member.
  ``Each House shall keep a Journal of its proceedings, and from time 
to time publish the same, excepting such parts as may in their judgment 
require secrecy; and the yeas and nays of the Members of either House 
on any question shall, at the desire of one fifth of those present, be 
entered on the Journal.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. 
Westerman).
  Mr. WESTERMAN. ``Neither House, during the session of Congress, 
shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three 
days, nor to any other place than that in which the two Houses shall be 
sitting.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Gibbs).
  Mr. GIBBS. Section 6:
  ``The Senators and Representatives shall receive a compensation for 
their services, to be ascertained by law, and paid out of the Treasury 
of the United States. They shall in all cases, except treason, felony 
and breach of the peace, be privileged from arrest during their 
attendance at the session of their respective Houses, and in going to 
and returning from the same; and for any speech or debate in either 
House, they shall not be questioned in any other place.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from New Mexico (Mr. 
Pearce).
  Mr. PEARCE. ``No Senator or Representative shall, during the time for 
which he was elected, be appointed to any civil office under the 
authority of the United States, which shall have been created, or the 
emoluments whereof shall have been encreased during such time; and no 
person holding any office under the United States, shall be a Member of 
either House during his continuance in office.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. 
Guthrie).
  Mr. GUTHRIE. Section 7:
  ``All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of 
Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with amendments 
as on other bills.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from California (Ms. 
Pelosi), the Democratic leader.
  Ms. PELOSI. ``Every bill which shall have passed the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a law, be 
presented to the President of the United States: if he approve he shall 
sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his objections to that 
House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the objections 
at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
Rutherford).
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. ``If after such reconsideration two thirds of that 
House shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, together with the 
objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be 
reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall 
become a law.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Hawaii (Ms. 
Gabbard).
  Ms. GABBARD. ``But in all such cases the votes of both Houses shall 
be determined by yeas and nays, and the names of the persons voting for 
and against the bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House 
respectively.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Dunn).
  Mr. DUNN. ``If any bill shall not be returned by the President within 
ten days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, 
the same shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it, unless 
the Congress by their adjournment prevent its return, in which case it 
shall not be a law.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
Crowley).
  Mr. CROWLEY. ``Every order, resolution, or vote to which the 
concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary 
(except on a question of adjournment) shall be presented to the 
President of the United States; and before the same shall take effect, 
shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall be 
repassed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives, 
according to

[[Page H103]]

the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of a bill.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. 
Abraham).
  Mr. ABRAHAM: Section 8:
  ``The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, 
imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common 
defence and general welfare of the United States; but all duties, 
imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States; . . 
.''

  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Correa).
  Mr. CORREA. ``. . . to borrow money on the credit of the United 
States;
  ``To regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several 
States, and with the Indian Tribes;
  ``To establish an uniform rule of naturalization, and uniform laws on 
the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Davidson).
  Mr. DAVIDSON. ``. . . to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and 
of foreign coin, and fix the standard of weights and measures;
  ``To provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities and 
current coin of the United States;
  ``To establish post offices and post roads; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Carbajal).
  Mr. CARBAJAL. ``. . . to promote the progress of science and useful 
arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the 
exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Rothfus).
  Mr. ROTHFUS. ``. . . to constitute tribunals inferior to the supreme 
Court;
  ``To define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high 
seas, and offences against the law of nations; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Bera).
  Mr. BERA. ``. . . to declare war, grant letters of marque and 
reprisal, and make rules concerning captures on land and water;
  ``To raise and support armies, but no appropriation of money to that 
use shall be for a longer term than two years; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Yoho).
  Mr. YOHO. ``. . . to provide and maintain a navy;
  ``To make rules for the government and regulation of the land and 
naval forces;
  ``To provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the 
Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. 
Raskin).
  Mr. RASKIN. ``. . . to provide for organizing, arming, and 
disciplining, the militia, and for governing such part of them as may 
be employed in the service of the United States, reserving to the 
States respectively, the appointment of the officers, and the authority 
of training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by 
Congress; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Williams).
  Mr. WILLIAMS. ``. . . to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases 
whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding ten miles square) as may, 
by cession of particular States, and the acceptance of Congress, become 
the seat of the Government of the United States, and to exercise like 
authority over all places purchased by the consent of the legislature 
of the State in which the same shall be, for the erection of forts, 
magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Washington (Ms. 
Jayapal).
  Ms. JAYAPAL. ``. . . and to make all laws which shall be necessary 
and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all 
other powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the 
United States, or in any department or officer thereof.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Farenthold).
  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Section 9:
  ``The migration or importation of such persons as any of the States 
now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by 
the Congress prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and eight, 
but a tax or duty may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding ten 
dollars for each person.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Colorado (Mr. 
Perlmutter).
  Mr. PERLMUTTER. ``The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall 
not be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the 
public safety may require it.
  ``No bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Flores).
  Mr. FLORES. ``No capitation, or other direct, tax shall be laid, 
unless in proportion to the census or enumeration herein before 
directed to be taken.
  ``No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Vargas).
  Mr. VARGAS. ``No preference shall be given by any regulation of 
commerce or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another; 
nor shall vessels bound to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, 
clear, or pay duties in another.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King).
  Mr. KING of Iowa. ``No money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in 
consequence of appropriations made by law; and a regular statement and 
account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be 
published from time to time.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
Scott).
  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. ``No title of nobility shall be granted by the 
United States: and no person holding any office of profit or trust 
under them, shall, without the consent of the Congress, accept of any 
present, emolument, office, or title, of any kind whatever, from any 
king, prince, or foreign state.''

                              {time}  1030

  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Hill).
  Mr. HILL. Section 10:
  ``No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation; 
grant letters of marque and reprisal; coin money; emit bills of credit; 
make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts; 
pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the 
obligation of contracts, or grant any title of nobility.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms. 
Kelly).
  Ms. KELLY of Illinois. ``No State shall, without the consent of the 
Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what 
may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws: and the 
net produce of all duties and imposts, laid by any State on imports or 
exports, shall be for the use of the Treasury of the United States; and 
all such laws shall be subject to the revision and controul of the 
Congress.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Yoder).
  Mr. YODER. ``No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any 
duty of tonnage, keep troops, or ships of war in time of peace, enter 
into any agreement or compact with another State, or with a foreign 
power, or engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent 
danger as will not admit of delay.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. 
Watson Coleman).
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Article II, section 1:
  ``The executive power shall be vested in a President of the United 
States of America. He shall hold his office during the term of four 
years, and, together with the Vice President chosen for the same term, 
be elected as follows:''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Allen).
  Mr. ALLEN. ``Each State shall appoint, in such manner as the 
legislature thereof may direct, a number of electors, equal to the 
whole number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be 
entitled in the Congress: but no Senator or Representative, or person 
holding an office of

[[Page H104]]

trust or profit under the United States, shall be appointed an 
elector.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. 
Demings).
  Mrs. DEMINGS. ``The Congress may determine the time of chusing the 
electors, and the day on which they shall give their votes; which day 
shall be the same throughout the United States.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Babin).
  Mr. BABIN. ``No person except a natural born citizen, or a citizen of 
the United States, at the time of the adoption of this Constitution, 
shall be eligible to the office of President; neither shall any person 
be eligible to that office who shall not have attained to the age of 
thirty five years, and been fourteen years a resident within the United 
States.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Castor).
  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. ``The President shall, at stated times, 
receive for his services, a compensation, which shall neither be 
increased nor diminished during the period for which he shall have been 
elected, and he shall not receive within that period any other 
emolument from the United States, or any of them.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Newhouse).
  Mr. NEWHOUSE. ``Before he enter on the execution of his office, he 
shall take the following oath or affirmation:--`I do solemnly swear (or 
affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the 
United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect 
and defend the Constitution of the United States.' ''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
Beyer).
  Mr. BEYER. Section 2:
  ``The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of 
the United States, and of the militia of the several States, when 
called into the actual service of the United States; he may require the 
opinion, in writing, of the principal officer in each of the executive 
departments, upon any subject relating to the duties of their 
respective offices, and he shall have power to grant reprieves and 
pardons for offences against the United States, except in cases of 
impeachment.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
Paulsen).
  Mr. PAULSEN. ``He shall have power, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided two thirds of the 
Senators present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with the 
advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint ambassadors, other 
public ministers and consuls, judges of the supreme Court, and all 
other officers of the United States, whose appointments are not herein 
otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by law: . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. 
Blumenauer).
  Mr. BLUMENAUER. ``. . . but the Congress may by law vest the 
appointment of such inferior officers, as they think proper, in the 
President alone, in the courts of law, or in the heads of 
departments.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Carter).
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. ``The President shall have power to fill up 
all vacancies that may happen during the recess of the Senate, by 
granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their next 
session.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms. 
Bonamici).
  Ms. BONAMICI. Section 3:
  ``He shall from time to time give the Congress information of the 
State of the Union, and recommend to their consideration such measures 
as he shall judge necessary and expedient; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. 
Bacon).

  Mr. BACON. ``. . . he may, on extraordinary occasions, convene both 
Houses, or either of them, and in case of disagreement between them, 
with respect to the time of adjournment, he may adjourn them to such 
time as he shall think proper; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms. 
McCollum).
  Ms. McCOLLUM. ``. . . he shall receive ambassadors and other public 
ministers; he shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed, and 
shall commission all the officers of the United States.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Olson).
  Mr. OLSON. Section 4:
  ``The President, Vice President and all civil officers of the United 
States, shall be removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction 
of, treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. 
Brown).
  Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Article III, section 1:
  ``The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one 
supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from 
time to time ordain and establish. The judges, both of the supreme and 
inferior Courts, shall hold their offices during good behaviour, and 
shall, at stated times, receive for their services a compensation, 
which shall not be diminished during their continuance in office.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Washington and the 
majority conference chairman (Mrs. McMorris Rodgers).
  Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS. Section 2:
  ``The judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, 
arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and 
treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority;--to all 
cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls;--to 
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms. 
Esty).
  Ms. ESTY. ``. . . to controversies to which the United States shall 
be a party;--to controversies between two or more States,--between 
citizens of different States,--between citizens of the same State 
claiming lands under grants of different States, and between a State, 
or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens or subjects.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Huizenga).
  Mr. HUIZENGA. ``In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public 
ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall be party, the 
supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the other cases 
before mentioned, the supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, 
both as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and under such 
regulations as the Congress shall make.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from New Hampshire (Ms. 
Kuster).
  Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. ``The trial of all crimes, except in 
cases of impeachment, shall be by jury; and such trial shall be held in 
the State where the said crimes shall have been committed; but when not 
committed within any State, the trial shall be at such place or places 
as the Congress may by law have directed.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. 
Gallagher).
  Mr. GALLAGHER. Section 3:
  ``Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying 
war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and 
comfort. No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the 
testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in 
open court.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from California (Ms. 
Matsui).
  Ms. MATSUI. ``The Congress shall have power to declare the punishment 
of treason, but no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, 
or forfeiture except during the life of the person attainted.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
Zeldin).
  Mr. ZELDIN. Article IV, section 1.
  ``Full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public 
acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other State. And the 
Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in which such acts, 
records and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof.''

[[Page H105]]

  

  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. 
Murphy).
  Mrs. MURPHY of Florida. Section 2:
  ``The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and 
immunities of citizens in the several States.
  ``A person charged in any State with treason, felony, or other crime, 
who shall flee from justice and be found in another State, shall on 
demand of the executive authority of the State from which he fled, be 
delivered up, to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the 
crime.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from New York (Mr. Faso).
  Mr. FASO. Section 3:
  ``New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no 
new State shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any 
other State; nor any State be formed by the junction of two or more 
States, or parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures of 
the States concerned as well as of the Congress.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Garamendi).
  Mr. GARAMENDI. ``The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make 
all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other 
property belonging to the United States; and nothing in this 
Constitution shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the 
United States, or of any particular State.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. 
Hollingsworth).
  Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH. Section 4:
  ``The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a 
Republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against 
invasion; and on application of the legislature, or of the executive 
(when legislature cannot be convened), against domestic violence.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Washington (Ms. 
DelBene).
  Ms. DelBENE. Article V:
  ``The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it 
necessary, shall propose amendments to this Constitution, or, on the 
application of the legislatures of two thirds of the several States, 
shall call a convention for proposing amendments, which, in either 
case, shall be valid to all intents and purposes, as part of this 
Constitution, when ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the 
several States . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Moolenaar).

                              {time}  1045

  Mr. MOOLENAAR. ``. . . or by conventions in three fourths thereof, as 
the one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the 
Congress; provided that no amendment which may be made prior to the 
year one thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any manner affect 
the first and fourth clauses in the ninth section of the first article; 
and that no State, without its consent, shall be deprived of its equal 
suffrage in the Senate.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Keating).
  Mr. KEATING. Article VI:
  ``All debts contracted and engagements entered into, before the 
adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United 
States under this Constitution, as under the Confederation.
  ``This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be 
made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or which shall be 
made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme 
law of the land; and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, 
any thing in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary 
notwithstanding.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. 
Smith).
  Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. ``The Senators and Representatives before 
mentioned, and the members of the several State legislatures, and all 
executive and judicial officers, both of the United States and of the 
several States, shall be bound by oath or affirmation, to support this 
Constitution; but no religious test shall ever be required as a 
qualification to any office or public trust under the United States.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Tsongas).
  Ms. TSONGAS. Article VII:
  ``The ratification of the conventions of nine States, shall be 
sufficient for the establishment of this Constitution between the 
States so ratifying the same.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Johnson).
  Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. ``Done in convention by the unanimous consent of 
the States present the seventeenth day of September in the year of our 
Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty seven and of the 
independence of the United States of America the twelfth in witness 
whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Eddie 
Bernice Johnson).
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. George Washington, President and 
deputy from Virginia.
  Delaware: George Read, Gunning Bedford, Jr., John Dickinson, Richard 
Bassett, Jacob Broom.
  Maryland: James McHenry, Daniel of St Thomas Jenifer, Daniel Carroll.
  Virginia: John Blair, James Madison, Jr.
  North Carolina: William Blount, Richard Dobbs Spaight, Hugh 
Williamson.
  South Carolina: John Rutledge, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, Charles 
Pinckney, Pierce Butler.
  Georgia: William Few, Abraham Baldwin.
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. 
Wagner).
  Mrs. WAGNER. New Hampshire: John Langdon, Nicholas Gilman.
  Massachusetts: Nathaniel Gorham, Rufus King.
  Connecticut: William Samuel Johnson, Roger Sherman.
  New York: Alexander Hamilton.
  New Jersey: William Livingston, David Brearley, William Paterson, 
Jonathan Dayton.
  Pennsylvania: Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Mifflin, Robert Morris, 
George Clymer, Thomas FitzSimons, Jared Ingersoll, James Wilson, 
Gouverneur Morris.
  Amendment I:
  ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, 
or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of 
speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to 
assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from West Virginia (Mr. 
Jenkins).
  Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia. Amendment II:
  ``A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free 
State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be 
infringed.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
Schneider).
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Amendment III:
  ``No soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, 
without the consent of the owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner 
to be prescribed by law.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Cartwright).
  Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Amendment IV:
  ``The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, 
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall 
not be violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, 
supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place 
to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Biggs).
  Mr. BIGGS. Amendment V:
  ``No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise 
infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury, 
except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, 
when in actual service in time of war or public danger; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Loebsack).
  Mr. LOEBSACK. ``. . . nor shall any person be subject for the same 
offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be 
compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against

[[Page H106]]

himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due 
process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, 
without just compensation.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from California (Mrs. 
Mimi Walters).
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Amendment VI:
  ``In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to 
a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and 
district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district 
shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of 
the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the 
witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining 
witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel for his 
defence.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
Nolan).
  Mr. NOLAN. Amendment VII:
  ``In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed 
twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no 
fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the 
United States, than according to the rules of the common law.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
LaHood).
  Mr. LaHOOD. Amendment VIII:
  ``Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, 
nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.''
  Amendment IX:
  ``The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not 
be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. 
Hoyer), the Democratic whip.
  Mr. HOYER. Amendment X:
  ``The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, 
nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States 
respectively, or to the people.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from New York (Mr. Sean 
Patrick Maloney).
  Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York. Amendment XI:
  ``The judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to 
extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against 
one of the United States by citizens of another State, or by citizens 
or subjects of any foreign state.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Arrington).
  Mr. ARRINGTON. Amendment XII:
  ``The electors shall meet in their respective States and vote by 
ballot for President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall 
not be an inhabitant of the same State with themselves; they shall name 
in their ballots the person voted for as President, and in distinct 
ballots the person voted for as Vice-President, and they shall make 
distinct lists of all persons voted for as President, and of all 
persons voted for as Vice-President, and of the number of votes for 
each, which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to 
the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the 
President of the Senate; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Nevada (Ms. 
Rosen).
  Ms. ROSEN. ``. . . the President of the Senate shall, in the presence 
of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates 
and the votes shall then be counted;--the person having the greatest 
number of votes for President, shall be the President, if such number 
be a majority of the whole number of electors appointed; and if no 
person have such majority, then from the persons having the highest 
numbers not exceeding three on the list of those voted for as 
President, . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Perry).
  Mr. PERRY. ``. . . the House of Representatives shall choose 
immediately, by ballot, the President. But in choosing the President, 
the votes shall be taken by States, the representation from each State 
having one vote; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a Member or 
Members from two-thirds of the States, and a majority of all the States 
shall be necessary to a choice.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Delaware (Ms. 
Blunt Rochester).
  Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. ``The person having the greatest number of votes 
as Vice-President, shall be the Vice-President, if such number be a 
majority of the whole number of electors appointed, and if no person 
have a majority, then from the two highest numbers on the list, the 
Senate shall choose the Vice-President; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
LaMalfa).
  Mr. LaMALFA. ``. . . a quorum for the purpose shall consist of two-
thirds of the whole number of Senators, and a majority of the whole 
number shall be necessary to a choice. But no person constitutionally 
ineligible to the office of President shall be eligible to that of 
Vice-President of the United States.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Lewis).
  Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Amendment XIII, section 1:
  ``Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment 
for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist 
within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.''
  Section 2:
  ``Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate 
legislation.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms. 
Schakowsky).
  Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Amendment XIV, section 1:
  ``All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject 
to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of 
the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law 
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the 
United States; . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Joyce).
  Mr. JOYCE. ``. . . nor shall any State deprive any person of life, 
liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any 
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.''
  Section 2:
  ``Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States 
according to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of 
persons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Soto).
  Mr. SOTO. ``But when the right to vote at any election for the choice 
of electors for President and Vice President of the United States, 
Representatives in Congress, the executive and judicial officers of a 
State, or the Members of the legislature thereof, is denied to any of 
the male inhabitants of such State, being twenty-one years of age, and 
citizens of the United States, or in any way abridged, except for 
participation in rebellion, or other crime, the basis of representation 
therein shall be reduced in the proportion which the number of such 
male citizens shall bear to the whole number of male citizens twenty-
one years of age in such State.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Thompson).
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Section 3:
  ``No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress, or 
elector of President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil or 
military, under the United States, or under any State, who, having 
previously taken an oath, as a Member of Congress, or as an officer of 
the United States . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Arizona (Ms. 
Sinema).
  Ms. SINEMA. ``. . . or as a member of any State legislature, or as an 
executive or judicial officer of any State, to support the Constitution 
of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion 
against the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But 
Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such 
disability.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Denham).
  Mr. DENHAM. Section 4:

[[Page H107]]

  ``The validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by 
law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions and bounties for 
services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be 
questioned. But neither the United States nor any State shall assume or 
pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion 
against the United States, or any claim for the loss or emancipation of 
any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims shall be held 
illegal and void.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
Serrano).
  Mr. SERRANO. Section 5:
  ``The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate 
legislation, the provisions of this article.''
  Amendment XV, section 1:
  ``The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be 
denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of 
race, color, or previous condition of servitude.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Rodney 
Davis).
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Section 2:
  ``The Congress shall have the power to enforce this article by 
appropriate legislation.''
  Amendment XVI:
  ``The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, 
from whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several 
States, and without regard to any census or enumeration.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Lowenthal).
  Mr. LOWENTHAL. Amendment XVII:
  ``The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators 
from each State, elected by the people thereof, for 6 years; and each 
Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each State shall have the 
qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of 
the State legislatures.
  ``When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the 
Senate, the executive authority of such State shall issue writs of 
election to fill such vacancies: . . .''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. 
Rouzer).
  Mr. ROUZER. ``. . . provided, that the legislature of any State may 
empower the executive thereof to make temporary appointments until the 
people fill the vacancies by election as the legislature may direct.
  ``This amendment shall not be so construed as to affect the election 
or term of any Senator chosen before it becomes valid as part of the 
Constitution.''
  Amendment XIX:
  ``The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be 
denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of 
sex.
  ``Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate 
legislation.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. 
Womack).
  Mr. WOMACK. Amendment XX, section 1:
  ``The terms of the President and the Vice President shall end at noon 
on the 20th day of January, and the terms of Senators and 
Representatives at noon on the 3d day of January, of the years in which 
such terms would have ended if this article had not been ratified; and 
the terms of their successors shall then begin.''
  Section 2:
  ``The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and such 
meeting shall begin at noon on the 3d day of January, unless they shall 
by law appoint a different day.''
  Section 3:
  ``If, at the time fixed for the beginning of the term of the 
President, the President elect shall have died, the Vice President 
elect shall become President. If a President shall not have been chosen 
before the time fixed for the beginning of his term, or if the 
President elect shall have failed to qualify, then the Vice President 
elect shall act as President until a President shall have qualified; 
and the Congress may by law provide for the case wherein neither a 
President elect nor a Vice President shall have qualified, declaring 
who shall then act as President, or the manner in which one who is to 
act shall be selected, and such person shall act accordingly until a 
President or Vice President shall have qualified.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Bishop).
  Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. Section 4:
  ``The Congress may by law provide for the case of the death of any of 
the persons from whom the House of Representatives may choose a 
President whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them, 
and for the case of the death of any of the persons from whom the 
Senate may choose a Vice President whenever the right of choice shall 
have devolved upon them.''
  Section 5:
  ``Sections 1 and 2 shall take effect on the 15th day of October 
following the ratification of this article.''
  Section 6:
  ``This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been 
ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of 
three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of 
its submission.''
  Amendment XXI, section 1:
  ``The 18th Article of amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States is hereby repealed.''
  Section 2:
  ``The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or 
possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of 
intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby 
prohibited.''
  Section 3:
  ``This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been 
ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the 
several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years 
from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Walberg).
  Mr. WALBERG. Amendment XXII, section 1:
  ``No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than 
twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as 
President, for more than two years of a term to which some other person 
was elected President shall be elected to the office of President more 
than once. But this article shall not apply to any person holding the 
office of President when this article was proposed by Congress, and 
shall not prevent any person who may be holding the office of 
President, or acting as President, during the term within which this 
article becomes operative from holding the office of President or 
acting as President during the remainder of such term.''
  Section 2:
  ``This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been 
ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of 
three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of 
its submission to the States by the Congress.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
LaMalfa).
  Mr. LaMALFA. Amendment XXIII, section 1:
  ``The District constituting the seat of government of the United 
States shall appoint in such manner as Congress may direct:
  ``A number of electors of President and Vice President equal to the 
whole number of Senators and Representatives in Congress to which the 
District would be entitled if it were a State, but in no event more 
than the least populous State; they shall be in addition to those 
appointed by the States, but they shall be considered, for the purposes 
of the election of President and Vice President, to be electors 
appointed by a State; and they shall meet in the District and perform 
such duties as provided by the twelfth article of amendment.''
  Section 2:
  ``The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by 
appropriate legislation.''
  Amendment XXIV, section 1:
  ``The right of citizens of the United States to vote in any primary 
or other election for President or Vice President, for electors for 
President or Vice President, or for Senator or Representative in 
Congress, shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any 
State by reason of failure to pay poll tax or other tax.''
  Section 2:

[[Page H108]]

  ``The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by 
appropriate legislation.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentlewoman from New York (Ms. 
Tenney).
  Ms. TENNEY. Amendment XXV, section 1:
  ``In case of the removal of the President from office or of his death 
or resignation, the Vice President shall become President.''
  Section 2:
  ``Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, 
the President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office 
upon confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress.''
  Section 3:
  ``Whenever the President transmits to the President pro tempore of 
the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written 
declaration that he is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his 
office, and until he transmits to them a written declaration to the 
contrary, such powers and duties shall be discharged by the Vice 
President as Acting President.''
  Section 4:
  ``Whenever the Vice President and a majority of either the principal 
officers of the executive departments or of such other body as Congress 
may by law provide, transmit to the President pro tempore of the Senate 
and the Speaker of the House of Representatives their written 
declaration that the President is unable to discharge the powers and 
duties of his office, the Vice President shall immediately assume the 
powers and duties of the office as Acting President.

  ``Thereafter, when the President transmits to the President pro 
tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
his written declaration that no inability exists, he shall resume the 
powers and duties of his office until the Vice President and a majority 
of either the principal officers of the executive department or of such 
other body as Congress may by law provide, transmit within four days to 
the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives their written declaration that the President is unable 
to discharge the powers and duties of his office.
  ``Thereupon Congress shall decide the issue, assembling within forty-
eight hours for that purpose if not in session. If the Congress, within 
twenty-one days after receipt of the latter written declaration, or, if 
Congress is not in session, within twenty-one days after Congress is 
required to assemble, determines by two-thirds vote of both Houses that 
the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his 
office, the Vice President shall continue to discharge the same as 
Acting President; otherwise, the President shall resume the powers and 
duties of his office.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
McNerney).
  Mr. McNERNEY. Amendment XXVI, section 1:
  ``The right of citizens of the United States, who are eighteen years 
of age or older, to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United 
States or by any State on account of age.''
  Section 2:
  ``The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by 
appropriate legislation.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. I now yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Woodall).
  Mr. WOODALL. Amendment XXVII:
  ``No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators 
and Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of 
Representatives shall have intervened.''
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, that concludes the reading of the 
Constitution. I would like to thank all of the Members who 
participated.
  I ask unanimous consent that I may be allowed to revise and extend 
remarks and insert omitted material in the Record during the reading of 
the Constitution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Virginia?
  There was no objection.

                          ____________________



