

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H814-H816]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


 RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION FOR THE 115th CONGRESS

                                         House of Representatives,


                            Committee on House Administration,

                                 Washington, DC, January 30, 2017.
     Hon. Paul D. Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: Pursuant to clause 2(a)(2) of House Rule 
     XI, I hereby submit the Rules of the Committee on House 
     Administration for publication in the Congressional Record. 
     The Rules were adopted by the Committee in its organizational 
     meeting.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Gregg Harper,
     Chairman.
                                  ____



                               Rule No. 1

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

       (a) The Rules of the House are the rules of the Committee 
     so far as applicable, except that a motion to recess from day 
     to day is a privileged motion in the Committee.
       (b) The Committee is authorized at any time to conduct such 
     investigations and studies as it may consider necessary or 
     appropriate in the exercise of its responsibilities under 
     House Rule X and, subject to the adoption of expense 
     resolutions as required by House Rule X, clause 6, to incur 
     expenses (including travel expenses) in connection therewith.
       (c) The Committee is authorized to have printed and bound 
     testimony and other data presented at hearings held by the 
     Committee, and to make such information available to the 
     public. All costs of stenographic services and transcripts in 
     connection with any meeting or hearing of the Committee shall 
     be paid from the appropriate House account.
       (d) The Committee shall submit to the House, not later than 
     January 2 of each odd-numbered year, a report on the 
     activities of the committee under House Rules X and XI.
       (e) The Committee's rules shall be made publicly available 
     in electronic form and published in the Congressional Record 
     not later than 30 days after the Committee is elected in each 
     odd-numbered year.


                               Rule No. 2

                      REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS

       (a) The regular meeting date of the Committee on House 
     Administration shall be the second Wednesday of every month 
     when the House is in session in accordance with Clause 2(b) 
     of House Rule XI. If the House is not in session on the 
     second Wednesday of a month, the regular meeting date shall 
     be the third Wednesday of that month. Additional meetings may 
     be called by the Chair of the Committee as she or he may deem 
     necessary or at the request of a majority of the members of 
     the Committee in accordance with Clause 2(c) of House Rule 
     XI. The determination of the business to be considered at 
     each meeting shall be made by the Chair subject to Clause 
     2(c) of House Rule XI. A regularly scheduled meeting may be 
     dispensed with if, in the judgment of the Chair, there is no 
     need for the meeting.
       (b) If the Chair is not present at any meeting of the 
     Committee, the ranking member of the majority party who is 
     present shall preside at the meeting.
       (c) The Chair, in the case of meetings to be conducted by 
     the Committee shall make public announcement of the date, 
     place, and subject matter of any meeting to be conducted on 
     any measure or matter. Such meeting shall not commence 
     earlier than the third day on which members have notice 
     thereof. If the Chair, with the concurrence of the ranking 
     minority member, determines that there is good cause to begin 
     the meeting sooner, or if the Committee so determines by 
     majority vote, a quorum being present, the Chair shall make 
     the announcement at the earliest possible date. The 
     announcement shall promptly be made publicly available in 
     electronic form and published in the Daily Digest.
       (d) The Chair, in the case of meetings to be conducted by 
     the Committee shall make available on the Committee's web 
     site the text of any legislation to be marked up at a meeting 
     at least 24 hours before such meeting (or at the time of an 
     announcement made within 24 hours of such meeting). This 
     requirement shall also apply to any resolution or regulation 
     to be considered at a meeting.


                               Rule No. 3

                             OPEN MEETINGS

       As required by Clause 2(g), of House Rule XI, each meeting 
     for the transaction of business, including the markup of 
     legislation of the Committee shall be open to the public 
     except when the Committee in open session and with a quorum 
     present determines by record vote that all or part of the 
     remainder of the meeting on that day shall be closed to the 
     public because disclosure of matters to be considered would 
     endanger national security, would compromise sensitive law 
     enforcement information, or would tend to defame, degrade or 
     incriminate any person, or otherwise would violate any law or 
     rule of the House. Provided, however, that no person other 
     than members of the Committee, and such congressional staff 
     and such other persons as the Committee may authorize, shall 
     be present in any business or markup session which has been 
     closed to the public. To the maximum extent practicable, the 
     Chair shall cause to be provided audio and video coverage of 
     each hearing or meeting that allows the public to easily 
     listen to and view the proceedings and maintain the 
     recordings of such coverage in a manner that is easily 
     accessible to the public.


                               Rule No. 4

                         RECORDS AND ROLLCALLS

       (a)(1) A record vote shall be held if requested by any 
     member of the Committee.
       (2) The result of each record vote in any meeting of the 
     Committee shall be made available for inspection by the 
     public at reasonable times at the Committee offices, 
     including a description of the amendment, motion, order or 
     other proposition; the name of each member voting for and 
     against; and the members present but not voting.
       (3) The Chairman shall make the record of the votes on any 
     question on which a record vote is demanded available on the 
     Committee's website not later than 48 hours after such vote 
     is taken (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays). 
     Such record shall include a description of the amendment, 
     motion, order, or other proposition, the name of each member 
     voting for and each member voting against such amendment, 
     motion, order, or proposition, and the names of those members 
     of the Committee present but not voting.
       (4) The Chairman shall make available on the Committee's 
     website not later than 24 hours (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, and legal holidays) after the adoption of any 
     amendment to a measure or matter the text of such amendment.
       (b)(1) Subject to subparagraph (2), the Chairman may 
     postpone further proceedings when a record vote is ordered on 
     the question of approving any measure or matter or adopting 
     an amendment. The Chair may resume proceedings on a postponed 
     request at any time.
       (2) In exercising postponement authority under subparagraph 
     (1), the Chairman shall take all reasonable steps necessary 
     to notify members on the resumption of proceedings on any 
     postponed record vote.
       (3) When proceedings resume on a postponed question, 
     notwithstanding any intervening order for the previous 
     question, an underlying proposition shall remain subject to 
     further debate or amendment to the same extent as when the 
     question was postponed.
       (c) All Committee hearings, records, data, charts, and 
     files shall be kept separate and distinct from the 
     congressional office records of the member serving as Chair; 
     and such records shall be the property of the House and all 
     members of the House shall have access thereto.
       (d) House records of the Committee which are at the 
     National Archives shall be made available pursuant to House 
     Rule VII. The Chairman shall notify the ranking minority 
     member of any decision to withhold a record pursuant to the 
     rule, and shall present the matter to the Committee upon 
     written request of any Committee member.
       (e) To the maximum extent feasible, the Committee shall 
     make its publications available in electronic form.


                               Rule No. 5

                                PROXIES

       No vote by any member in the Committee may be cast by 
     proxy.


                               Rule No. 6

                  POWER TO SIT AND ACT; SUBPOENA POWER

       (a) For the purpose of carrying out any of its functions 
     and duties under House Rules X and XI, the Committee is 
     authorized (subject to subparagraph (b)(1) of this 
     paragraph)--
       (1) to sit and act at such times and places within the 
     United States, whether the House is in session, has recessed, 
     or has adjourned, and to hold such hearings; and
       (2) to require, by subpoena or otherwise, the attendance 
     and testimony of such witnesses and the production of such 
     books, records, correspondence, memorandums, papers, 
     documents and other materials as it deems necessary, 
     including materials in electronic form. The Chair, or any 
     member designated by the Chair, may administer oaths to any 
     witness.
       (b)(1) A subpoena may be authorized and issued by the 
     Committee in the conduct of any investigation or series of 
     investigations or activities, only when authorized by a 
     majority of the members voting, a majority being present. The 
     power to authorize and issue subpoenas under subparagraph 
     (a)(2) may be delegated to the Chair pursuant to such rules 
     and under such limitations as the Committee may prescribe. 
     Authorized subpoenas shall be signed by the Chair or by any 
     member designated by the Committee, and may be served by any 
     person designated by the Chair or such member.
       (2) Compliance with any subpoena issued by the Committee 
     may be enforced only as authorized or directed by the House.


                               Rule No. 7

                                QUORUMS

       No measure or recommendation shall be reported to the House 
     unless a majority of the Committee is actually present. For 
     the purposes of taking any action other than reporting any 
     measure, issuance of a subpoena, closing meetings, 
     promulgating Committee orders, or changing the rules of the 
     Committee, one-third of the members of the Committee shall 
     constitute a quorum. For purposes of taking testimony and 
     receiving evidence, two members shall constitute a quorum.


                               Rule No. 8

                               AMENDMENTS

       Any amendment offered to any pending legislation before the 
     Committee must be

[[Page H815]]

     made available in written form when requested by any member 
     of the Committee. If such amendment is not available in 
     written form when requested, the Chair will allow an 
     appropriate period of time for the provision thereof.


                               Rule No. 9

                           HEARING PROCEDURES

       (a) The Chair, in the case of hearings to be conducted by 
     the Committee shall make public announcement of the date, 
     place, and subject matter of any hearing to be conducted on 
     any measure or matter at least one (1) week before the 
     commencement of that hearing. If the Chair, with the 
     concurrence of the ranking minority member, determines that 
     there is good cause to begin the hearing sooner, or if the 
     Committee so determines by majority vote, a quorum being 
     present, the Chair shall make the announcement at the 
     earliest possible date. The clerk of the Committee shall 
     promptly notify the Daily Digest Clerk of the Congressional 
     Record as soon as possible after such public announcement is 
     made.
       (b) Unless excused by the Chair, each witness who is to 
     appear before the Committee shall file with the clerk of the 
     Committee, at least 48 hours in advance of his or her 
     appearance, a written statement of his or her proposed 
     testimony and shall limit his or her oral presentation to a 
     summary of his or her statement.
       (c) When any heating is conducted by the Committee upon any 
     measure or matter, the minority party members on the 
     Committee shall be entitled, upon request to the Chair by a 
     majority of those minority members before the completion of 
     such hearing, to call witnesses selected by the minority to 
     testify with respect to that measure or matter during at 
     least one day of hearings thereon.
       (d) Reserved.
       (e) Committee members may question witnesses only when they 
     have been recognized by the Chair for that purpose, and only 
     for a 5-minute period until all members present have had an 
     opportunity to question a witness. The 5-minute period for 
     questioning a witness by any one member can be extended as 
     provided by House Rules. The questioning of a witness in 
     Committee hearings shall be initiated by the Chair, followed 
     by the ranking minority member and all other members 
     alternating between the majority and minority. In recognizing 
     members to question witnesses in this fashion, the Chair 
     shall take into consideration the ratio of the majority to 
     minority members present and shall establish the order of 
     recognition for questioning in such a manner as not to 
     disadvantage the members of the majority. The Chair may 
     accomplish this by recognizing two majority members for each 
     minority member recognized.
       (f) The following additional rules shall apply to hearings 
     of the Committee as applicable:
       (1) The Chair at a hearing shall announce in an opening 
     statement the subject of the investigation.
       (2) A copy of the Committee rules and this clause shall be 
     made available to each witness as provided by clause 2(k)(2) 
     of Rule XI.
       (3) Witnesses at hearings may be accompanied by their own 
     counsel for the purpose of advising them concerning their 
     constitutional rights.
       (4) The Chair may punish breaches of order and decorum, and 
     of professional ethics on the part of counsel, by censure and 
     exclusion from the hearings; and the Committee may cite the 
     offender to the House for contempt.
       (5) If the Committee determines that evidence or testimony 
     at a hearing may tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate any 
     person, it shall----
       (A) afford such person an opportunity voluntarily to appear 
     as a witness;
       (B) receive such evidence or testimony in executive 
     session; and
       (C) receive and dispose of requests from such person to 
     subpoena additional witnesses.
       (6) Except as provided in subparagraph (f)(5), the Chair 
     shall receive and the Committee shall dispose of requests to 
     subpoena additional witnesses.
       (7) No evidence or testimony taken in executive session may 
     be released or used in public sessions without the consent of 
     the Committee.
       (8) In the discretion of the Committee, witnesses may 
     submit brief and pertinent sworn statements in writing for 
     inclusion in the record. The Committee is the sole judge of 
     the pertinence of testimony and evidence adduced at its 
     hearing.
       (9) A witness may obtain a transcript copy of his testimony 
     given at a public session or, if given at an executive 
     session, when authorized by the Committee.


                              Rule No. 10

              PROCEDURES FOR REPORTING MEASURES OR MATTERS

       (a)(1) It shall be the duty of the Chair to report or cause 
     to be reported promptly to the House any measure approved by 
     the Committee and to take or cause to be taken necessary 
     steps to bring the matter to a vote.
       (2) In any event, the report of the Committee on a measure 
     which has been approved by the Committee shall be filed 
     within 7 calendar days (exclusive of days on which the House 
     is not in session) after the day on which there has been 
     filed with the clerk of the Committee a written request, 
     signed by a majority of the members of the Committee, for the 
     reporting of that measure. Upon the filing of any such 
     request, the clerk of the Committee shall transmit 
     immediately to the Chair notice of the filing of that 
     request.
       (b)(1) No measure or recommendation shall be reported to 
     the House unless a majority of the Committee is actually 
     present.
       (2) With respect to each record vote on a motion to report 
     any measure or matter of a public character, and on any 
     amendment offered to the measure or matter, the total number 
     of votes cast for and against, and the names of those members 
     voting for and against, shall be included in the Committee 
     report on the measure or matter.
       (c) The report of the Committee on a measure or matter 
     which has been approved by the Committee shall include the 
     matters required by Clause 3(c) of Rule XIII of the Rules of 
     the House.
       (d) If, at the time any measure or matter is ordered 
     reported by the Committee, any member of the Committee gives 
     notice of intention to file supplemental, minority, 
     additional, or dissenting views, that member shall be 
     entitled to not less than two additional calendar days after 
     the day of such notice, commencing on the day on which the 
     measure or matter(s) was approved, excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, and legal holidays, in which to file such views, in 
     writing and signed by that member, with the clerk of the 
     Committee. All such views so filed by one or more members of 
     the Committee shall be included within, and shall be a part 
     of, the report filed by the Committee with respect to that 
     measure or matter. The report of the Committee upon that 
     measure or matter shall be printed in a single volume which--
       (1) shall include all supplemental, minority, additional or 
     dissenting views, in the form submitted, by the time of the 
     filing of the report, and
       (2) shall bear upon its cover a recital that any such 
     supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views (and 
     any material submitted under subparagraph (c)) are included 
     as part of the report. This subparagraph does not preclud--
       (A) the immediate filing or printing of a Committee report 
     unless timely request for the opportunity to file 
     supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views has 
     been made as provided by paragraph (c); or
       (B) the filing of any supplemental report upon any measure 
     or matter which may be required for the correction of any 
     technical error in a previous report made by the Committee 
     upon that measure or matter.
       (3) shall, when appropriate, contain the documents required 
     by Clause 3(e) of Rule XIII of the Rules of the House.
       (e) The Chair, following consultation with the ranking 
     minority member, is directed to offer a motion under clause 1 
     of Rule XXII of the Rules of the House, relating to going to 
     conference with the Senate, whenever the Chair considers it-
     appropriate.
       (f) If hearings have been held on any such measure or 
     matter so reported, the Committee shall make every reasonable 
     effort to have such hearings published and available to the 
     members of the House prior to the consideration of such 
     measure or matter in the House.
       (g) The Chair may designate any majority member of the 
     Committee to act as ``floor manager'' of a bill or resolution 
     during its consideration in the House.


                              Rule No. 11

                          COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT

       The Committee shall conduct oversight of matters within the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee in accordance with House Rule 
     X, clause 2 and clause 4. Not later than February 15 of the 
     first session of a Congress, the Committee shall, in a 
     meeting that is open to the public and with a quorum present, 
     adopt its authorization and oversight plan for that Congress 
     in accordance with House Rule X, clause 2(d).


                              Rule No. 12

          REVIEW OF CONTINUING PROGRAMS; BUDGET ACT PROVISIONS

       (a) The Committee shall, in its consideration of all bills 
     and joint resolutions of a public character within its 
     jurisdiction, ensure that appropriation for continuing 
     programs and activities of the Federal Government will be 
     made annually to the maximum extent feasible and consistent 
     with the nature, requirement, and objectives of the programs 
     and activities involved. For the purposes of this paragraph a 
     Government agency includes the organizational units of 
     government listed in Clause 4(e) of Rule X of House Rules.
       (b) The Committee shall review, from time to time, each 
     continuing program within its jurisdiction for which 
     appropriations are not made annually in order to ascertain 
     whether such program could be modified so that appropriations 
     therefore would be made annually.
       (c) The Committee shall, on or before February 25 of each 
     year, submit to the Committee on the Budget (1) its views and 
     estimates with respect to all matters to be set forth in the 
     concurrent resolution on the budget for the ensuing fiscal 
     year which are within its jurisdiction or functions, and (2) 
     an estimate of the total amounts of new budget authority, and 
     budget outlays resulting there from, to be provided or 
     authorized in all bills and resolutions within its 
     jurisdiction which it intends to be effective during that 
     fiscal year.
       (d) As soon as practicable after a concurrent resolution on 
     the budget for any fiscal year is agreed to, the Committee 
     (after consulting with the appropriate committee or

[[Page H816]]

     committees of the Senate) shall subdivide any allocation made 
     to it in the joint explanatory statement accompanying the 
     conference report on such resolution, and promptly report 
     such subdivisions to the House, in the manner provided by 
     section 302 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
       (e) Whenever the Committee is directed in a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget to determine and recommend changes 
     in laws, bills, or resolutions under the reconciliation 
     process it shall promptly make such determination and 
     recommendations, and report a reconciliation bill or 
     resolution (or both) to the House or submit such 
     recommendations to the Committee on the Budget, in accordance 
     with the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.


                              Rule No. 13


            BROADCASTING OF COMMITTEE HEARINGS AND MEETINGS

       Whenever any hearing or meeting conducted by the Committee 
     is open to the public, those proceedings shall be open to 
     coverage by television, radio, and still photography, as 
     provided in Clause 4 of House Rule XI, subject to the 
     limitations therein. Operation and use of any Committee 
     Internet broadcast system shall be fair and nonpartisan and 
     in accordance with Clause 4(b) of rule XI and all other 
     applicable rules of the Committee and the House.


                              Rule No. 14

                            COMMITTEE STAFF

       The staff of the Committee on House Administration shall be 
     appointed as follows:
       (a) The staff shall be appointed by the Chair except as 
     provided in paragraph (b), and may be removed by the Chair, 
     and shall work under the general supervision and direction of 
     the Chair;
       (b) All staff provided to the minority party members of the 
     Committee shall be appointed by the ranking minority member, 
     and may be removed by the ranking minority member of the 
     Committee, and shall work under the general supervision and 
     direction of such member;
       (c) The appointment of all professional staff shall be 
     subject to the approval of the Committee as provided by, and 
     subject to the provisions of, clause 9 of Rule X of the Rules 
     of the House;
       (d) The Chair shall fix the compensation of all staff of 
     the Committee, after consultation with the ranking minority 
     member regarding any minority party staff, within the budget 
     approved for such purposes for the Committee.


                              Rule No. 15

                      TRAVEL OF MEMBERS AND STAFF

       (a) Consistent with the primary expense resolution and such 
     additional expense resolutions as may have been approved, the 
     provisions of this rule shall govern travel of Committee 
     members and staff. Travel for any member or any staff member 
     shall be paid only upon the prior authorization of the Chair 
     or her or his designee. Travel may be authorized by the Chair 
     for any member and any staff member in connection with the 
     attendance at hearings conducted by the Committee and 
     meetings, conferences, and investigations which involve 
     activities or subject matter under the general jurisdiction 
     of the Committee. Before such authorization is given there 
     shall be submitted to the Chair in writing the following:
       (1) The purpose of the travel;
       (2) The dates during which the travel will occur;
       (3) The locations to be visited and the length of time to 
     be spent in each; and
       (4) The names of members and staff seeking authorization.
       (b)(1) In the case of travel outside the United States of 
     members and staff of the Committee for the purpose of 
     conducting hearings, investigations, studies, or attending 
     meetings and conferences involving activities or subject 
     matter under the legislative assignment of the committee, 
     prior authorization must be obtained from the Chair. Before 
     such authorization is given, there shall be submitted to the 
     Chair, in writing, a request for such authorization. Each 
     request, which shall be filed in a manner that allows for a 
     reasonable period of time for review before such travel is 
     scheduled to begin, shall include the following:
       (A) the purpose of the travel;
       (B) the dates during which the travel will occur;
       (C) the names of the countries to be visited and the length 
     of time to be spent in each;
       (D) an agenda of anticipated activities for each country 
     for which travel is authorized together with a description of 
     the purpose to be served and the areas of committee 
     jurisdiction involved; and
       (E) the names of members and staff for whom authorization 
     is sought.
       (2) At the conclusion of any hearing, investigation, study, 
     meeting or conference for which travel outside the United 
     States has been authorized pursuant to this rule, members and 
     staff attending meetings or conferences shall submit a 
     written report to the Chair covering the activities and other 
     pertinent observations or information gained as a result of 
     such travel.
       (c) Members and staff of the Committee performing 
     authorized travel on official business shall be governed by 
     applicable laws, resolutions, or regulations of the House and 
     of the Committee on House Administration pertaining to such 
     travel.


                              Rule No. 16

       Reserved.


                              Rule No. 17

       Reserved.


                              Rule No. 18

                    OTHER PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS

       The Chair may establish such other procedures and take such 
     actions as may be necessary to carry out the foregoing rules 
     or to facilitate the effective operation of the committee.


                            Rule No. No. 19

                 DESIGNATION OF CLERK OF THE COMMITTEE

       For the purposes of these rules and the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives, the staff director of the Committee shall 
     act as the clerk of the Committee.

                          ____________________



