

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S745]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        REMEMBERING BOB BOALDIN

 Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, throughout his life, Bob Boaldin was 
dedicated to serving God, his family, his friends, and his community in 
Elkhart. As a stalwart figure of southwest Kansas who worked in the 
communication industry for many years, he was in many ways responsible 
for connecting the Big First to the world.
  Bob was born on November 3, 1939, in Oklahoma City. He grew up in 
Elkhart, KS, and graduated from the local high school. While attending 
one semester at Oklahoma Panhandle State University, he met his wife of 
58 years, Dian Whitecotton. He and Dian raised two sons and a daughter: 
Travis, Trenton, and Roxanna. Bob was a wheat and milo farmer who 
worked part time at the Elkhart Phone Company until 1964, when he began 
his lifelong career in communications.
  In the 1970s, he purchased Elkhart Telephone Company and became the 
owner of Elkhart TV cable system. He also served as president of the 
State of Kansas Telephone Association and on the board of directors at 
the OPASTCO, Organization for the Promotion and Advancement of Small 
Telephone Companies. He was a founding member of the organization's 
Foundation for Rural Education and Development, which continues to help 
graduating high school seniors succeed by offering them academic 
scholarships. In 1986, Bob also began serving on the board of the U.S. 
Telecom Association.
  His service to Elkhart and to Morton County will not be forgotten--he 
was a city councilman, mayor, and county commissioner for many years. 
He also worked as a local EMT for 13 years. He was an avid supporter of 
the county fair and always sought opportunities to serve his city and 
his State.
  Bob's leadership abilities and desire to help his community led him 
to a number of roles advising members of the local and State levels of 
government, joining the Kansas Supreme Court Blue Ribbon Commission, 
helping to found WEKANDO, Western Kansas County Commissioners 
Organization, participating in the Kansas 911 Coordinating Council, and 
serving as president of the State of Kansas Legislative Policy Group.
  He loved his cow-calf operation and worked hard to keep his cattle 
well fed. He was an active member of the Hillcrest Baptist Church 
community and gave his time during his younger years as a Sunday School 
teacher, nursery worker, school superintendent, and deacon.
  Bob was an exemplary neighbor, friend, and leader. His lifelong 
efforts to improve the quality of life for those around him will impact 
generations of Kansans to come. I am thankful for my friendship with 
him and for his service to so many. Our prayers are with his wife and 
family. May he rest in peace.

                          ____________________



