

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2468]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        CONCERNS BREWING ABOUT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT CONSTRUCTION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Shimkus) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to address concerns brewing in 
Lithuania and other Baltic States about the construction of a nuclear 
power plant. This plant is 12\1/2\ miles from the Lithuanian border and 
in sight of Vilnius, Lithuania's capital and largest city.
  I speak here not only as a friend of the Baltic people and as a 
descendant of Lithuanian immigrants, but also as co-chair of the Baltic 
Caucus and chairman of the Subcommittee on Environment.
  Like all my colleagues here, I am concerned about ensuring the 
security, integrity, and safety of nuclear projects in Europe and 
around the world. Here is the capital of Lithuania, Vilnius, and that 
is where the power plant is being built.
  This site was first chosen during the era of the Soviet Union but was 
halted after the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, which contaminated a 
quarter of Belarus. Now, in 2019, Belarus is supposed to house a 
different Moscow-run nuclear power plant, this one run by the Russian 
state-owned company Rosatom.
  This project is very environmentally sensitive. Both Lithuania and 
Belarus are signatures to the Espoo Convention. The Espoo Convention 
calls for member states to consult with bordering countries about such 
projects, to allow experts to review information about the projects, 
and to share information with bordering countries about safety and 
security of these projects.
  Building a nuclear power plant is hard, especially when it is a 
country's first. That is why the International Atomic Energy Agency has 
recommended a six-step review process meant to prevent disasters like 
Chernobyl's and the more recent one in Fukushima, Japan. But Belarus 
has chosen to skip four of the six steps, including crucial steps, and 
ignore the people in the land of Lithuania.
  There is a real concern that the main purpose behind the project is 
to grow Russian influence and power, especially over energy, in the 
European Union. The President of Belarus said that the Astravets plant 
and another Russian plant are a fishbone in the throat of the European 
Union and the Baltic States.
  Nuclear power plants in sensitive areas should be discussed within 
the Espoo Convention. Nearly all of Lithuania is within 186 miles of 
the plant, which means that, if a disaster were to strike, the land of 
Lithuania could be affected. The country's drinking water could also be 
affected since the plant is supposed to draw water from the Neris River 
that supplies drinking water to Lithuania.
  But incidents are occurring that cast doubt on Belarus' commitment to 
working with neighbors and ensuring the plant is safe. In 2016, four 
accidents occurred, and Belarus has failed to be upfront with Lithuania 
about any of them.
  A 330-ton nuclear reactor shell was allegedly dropped from about 13 
feet last summer. Belarus did not reveal anything about the incident 
until independent media reported it, and then downplayed it.
  Building a nuclear power plant requires care in construction 
according to the most stringent standards with the utmost transparency, 
and for the best reasons. This plant fails on all four counts. It is in 
the wrong location. It has been irresponsibly handled.
  Instead of transparency, we have seen stonewalling and obfuscation. 
Instead of making the most economic sense, this plant seems to make 
good geopolitical sense--and for Russia, not for Belarus.
  Mr. Speaker, let me be clear. No one here objects to the safe, secure 
design, construction, and running of a nuclear power plant. But the 
people of Lithuania are firmly opposed to irresponsible attitudes 
toward nuclear power, particularly so close to their most populous 
city.
  This concern makes sense. As chairman of the House Subcommittee on 
Environment and long-time observer of Eastern Europe, Mr. Speaker, I 
can assure you that the people of the United States have no better 
friend than the people of Lithuania.
  Lithuanians have the right and the responsibility to ensure their and 
their children's environmental security. They should not be expected to 
accept inadequate or misleading information about a serious, 
environmentally sensitive project right on their borders. The 
Government of Belarus should respect the commitments it has made, 
including with its neighbors.
  Until these issues are resolved, Mr. Speaker, I cannot fault the 
Lithuanian people for their concerns about the Astravets nuclear power 
plant. I share their concerns. I hope Belarus will calm their fears by 
allowing in international experts and representatives.
  Belarus should also comply with the International Atomic Energy 
Agency's recommendations for the design, construction, and running of 
safe nuclear power plants.

                          ____________________



