

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2469]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                    WELCOMING RABBI SANFORD AKSELRAD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the gentlewoman from 
Nevada (Ms. Rosen) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand here today and introduce 
my friend, Rabbi Sanford Akselrad. As leader of Congregation Ner Tamid, 
he has been a friend, a mentor, and my rabbi for 25 years.
  His vision for a campus, a spiritual hub, has been realized in his 
nearly 30-year career at Congregation Ner Tamid. He has led us with 
strength, with poise, and with wisdom as he has shared in the sorrows 
and joys--from the simchas to the shivas--of our entire community.
  His work in both the outreach and interfaith communities has left 
impact and meaning on so many lives across the Las Vegas Valley and 
beyond.
  May he continue to serve us all with grace, compassion, and strength.
  Mr. Speaker, as leader of Congregation Ner Tamid, he has been a 
friend, a mentor, and my rabbi for 25 years.
  Since moving to Las Vegas in 1988, Rabbi Akselrad has served as the 
spiritual leader of Congregation Ner Tamid.
  His vision for a campus, a spiritual hub has been realized in his 
nearly 30-year career at Congregation Ner Tamid.
  He has led us with strength, with poise, and with wisdom and has 
shared in the sorrows and joys from the simchas to the shivas of our 
entire community.
  His work in both the Interfaith and Outreach communities has left 
impact and meaning on so many families across the Las Vegas Valley.
  His unwavering commitment to building a strong community as our 
Congregation's spiritual leader and in creating a vibrant Jewish 
community in Southern Nevada has not gone unnoticed.
  During this time, the Synagogue grew from approximately 60 to over 
600 families, becoming the largest Reform Synagogue in the State of 
Nevada. In his nearly 27 years of service to our Congregation, Rabbi 
Akselrad has served on a wide variety of community boards including the 
Humana Hospital Pastoral Advisory Board, the Jewish Federation of Las 
Vegas, Jewish Family Services and the National Conference of Community 
and Justice.
  A firm believer in K'lal Israel and building a strong Jewish 
community, Rabbi Akselrad has spearheaded many community-wide boards, 
commissions, and organizations that have helped shape the Jewish 
community we live in today.
  In the wake of the Great Recession of the late 2000's, Rabbi Akselrad 
envisioned Project Ezra, a partnership between the Jewish Federation of 
Las Vegas, the Board of Rabbis, and Jewish Family Service Agency. 
Project Ezra helps people of all faiths secure new employment in this 
changing economic climate.
  Rabbi Akselrad is currently a board member of the Anti-Defamation 
League of Las Vegas and the Interfaith Council of Southern Nevada. 
Rabbi Akselrad has served on the National Commission on Jewish Living, 
Worship and Music for the Union of Reform Judaism (URJ) since 1999. He 
has also served on the Outreach Committee (to interfaith families) of 
the URJ.
  Rabbi Akselrad's community contributions and leadership are the best 
example of Congregation Ner Tamid's commitment to Tikkun Olam and 
Social Justice.
  May he continue to serve us all with grace, compassion, and strength.

                          ____________________



