

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 46 (Thursday, March 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2147-H2149]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Ms. Speier, Ms. Norton, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Serrano, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Evans, Ms. Moore, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Amash, Mr. McClintock, and Ms. Clark 
             of Massachusetts):
       H.R. 1556. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Defense to make certain limitations 
     on the transfer of personal property to Federal and State 
     agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Schiff, and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 1557. A bill to withdraw certain lands in Los Angeles 
     County, California, from entry, appropriation, or disposal 
     under the public land laws, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1558. A bill to amend the National Flood Insurance Act 
     of 1968 to ensure community accountability for areas 
     repetitively damaged by floods, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Young of Alaska, 
             Ms. Pingree, and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 1559. A bill to amend the State Department Basic 
     Authorities Act of 1956 to establish a United States 
     Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Mr. Suozzi, Ms. McSally, and Mr. Schneider):
       H.R. 1560. A bill to amend the Family and Medical Leave Act 
     of 1993 to provide leave because of the death of a son or 
     daughter; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Soto, Ms. McCollum, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 1561. A bill to prohibit any hiring freeze from 
     affecting the National Institutes of Health and the Centers 
     for Disease Control; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. Ellison, and Mr. Johnson 
             of Georgia):
       H.R. 1562. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to improve the security of the information technology 
     used to administer voter registration procedures and 
     elections for Federal office, to promote the accuracy and 
     integrity of the results of such elections, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. King of New York, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Walz, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Connolly, Ms. 
             Norton, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Upton, Mr. Dent, Mr. Reed, 
             Mr. Pocan, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. 
             Soto, and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 1563. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for the establishment of a mesothelioma patient 
     registry, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. BERGMAN:
       H.R. 1564. A bill to amend section 504 of the Veterans' 
     Benefits Improvements Act of 1996 to specify the funding 
     source for travel related to examinations by physicians not 
     employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs regarding 
     medical disabilities of applicants for benefits under title 
     38, United States Code, to codify section 504 of the 
     Veterans' Benefits Improvements Act of 1996, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Allen, Mr. 
             Rouzer, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr.

[[Page H2148]]

             Smith of Texas, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Stewart, and Mr. Carter of Georgia):
       H.R. 1565. A bill to provide for the creation of a safe 
     harbor for defendants in medical malpractice actions who 
     demonstrate adherence to clinical practice guidelines; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Kind, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Butterfield, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Keating, Ms. Norton, and Mr. 
             Jeffries):
       H.R. 1566. A bill to provide incentives for hate crime 
     reporting, grants for State-run hate crime hotlines, a 
     Federal private right of action for victims of hate crimes, 
     and additional penalties for individuals convicted under the 
     Matthew Shephard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention 
     Act; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CUELLAR:
       H.R. 1567. A bill to promote economic partnership and 
     cooperation between the United States and Mexico; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Rodney 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Rouzer, and Mr. Paulsen):
       H.R. 1568. A bill to enhance interstate commerce by 
     creating a national hiring standard for motor carriers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FOSTER:
       H.R. 1569. A bill to prioritize funding for an expanded and 
     sustained national investment in basic science research; to 
     the Committee on the Budget, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, and Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Lee, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. Bass, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, and Mr. 
             Rush):
       H.R. 1570. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     global affairs strategy and assistance for people of African 
     descent, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER (for herself and Mr. Higgins of 
             New York):
       H.R. 1571. A bill to provide first responders with 
     planning, training, and equipment capabilities for crude oil-
     by-rail and ethanol-by-rail derailment and incident response, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself and Mr. Mullin):
       H.R. 1572. A bill to amend the Public Utility Regulatory 
     Policies Act of 1978 to provide for the consideration by 
     State regulatory authorities and nonregulated electric 
     utilities of whether subsidies should be provided for the 
     deployment, construction, maintenance, or operation of a 
     customer-side technology; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. HUIZENGA:
       H.R. 1573. A bill to oppose International Monetary Fund 
     participation in foreign-led agreements, reduce moral hazard, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico:
       H.R. 1574. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to clarify that the Federal Communications Commission may not 
     take action against a broadcast licensee or any other person 
     on the basis of viewpoint, to clarify that the President may 
     not direct an agency to take such an action, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR:
       H.R. 1575. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand the family members with respect to whom 
     treatment for alcohol and drug addiction is treated as a 
     qualified medical expense for purposes of health 
     reimbursement arrangements, health flexible spending 
     arrangements, and health savings accounts; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MATSUI:
       H.R. 1576. A bill to direct the Secretary of Commerce to 
     establish a job-training grant program for workers displaced 
     by automation and to establish an Innovation Corps to enable 
     recent college graduates to volunteer in job-training 
     programs for workers displaced by automation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Gosar, and Mr. Franks 
             of Arizona):
       H.R. 1577. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     submit a report to Congress evaluating the Capital Investment 
     Strategy and its results, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Mr. Dent, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Moore, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             LoBiondo, and Mr. Perry):
       H.R. 1578. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide coverage under the Medicare program 
     for FDA-approved qualifying colorectal cancer screening 
     blood-based tests, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Pallone, and Mr. 
             Tonko):
       H.R. 1579. A bill to require drinking water systems to 
     assess and address their vulnerabilities to climate change, 
     source water degradation, and intentional acts to ensure 
     security and resiliency; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Mr. Upton, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Levin, and 
             Mr. Higgins of New York):
       H.R. 1580. A bill to authorize the Director of the United 
     States Geological Survey to conduct monitoring, assessment, 
     science, and research, in support of the binational fisheries 
     within the Great Lakes Basin, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 1581. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to add access to telecommunications and information services 
     in Indian country and areas with high populations of Indian 
     people to the universal service principle relating to access 
     to such services in rural, insular, and high cost areas; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUSSELL (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Mr. Walz, Mr. Cole, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Knight, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Marshall, and Mr. Collins 
             of New York):
       H.R. 1582. A bill to require the Secretary of Treasury to 
     mint coins in commemoration of the 100 year anniversary of 
     the 1st Infantry Division; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Mr. Higgins of New York, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Moore, Ms. Lee, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Pocan, Ms. Norton, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mrs. Napolitano, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Scott 
             of Virginia, Mr. Khanna, Mrs. Beatty, and Mr. 
             Cardenas):
       H.R. 1583. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to improve social security benefits for widows and 
     widowers in two-income households; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Connolly, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Heck, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. Lee, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Smith of Washington, and Ms. Speier):
       H.R. 1584. A bill to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
     of 1972 to prohibit the taking, importation, and exportation 
     of Orcas and Orca products for public display, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHWEIKERT (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Royce 
             of California, Mr. Hill, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Yoho, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mr. Davidson, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 1585. A bill to amend the Securities Act of 1933 to 
     codify certain qualifications of individuals as accredited 
     investors for purposes of the securities laws; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 1586. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to ensure that liquid over-the-counter 
     medications are packaged with appropriate dosage delivery 
     devices and, in the case of such medications labeled for 
     pediatric use, appropriate flow restrictors, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER (for herself, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Connolly, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Speier, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. 
             Jeffries, and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 1587. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to preserve the effectiveness of medically 
     important antimicrobials used in the treatment of human and 
     animal diseases; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Brady of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Himes, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. O'Halleran, and Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida):

[[Page H2149]]

  

       H.R. 1588. A bill to amend the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice to prohibit the nonconsensual distribution of private 
     sexual images; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself and Ms. 
             Eshoo):
       H.R. 1589. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to adjust the phaseout of the health insurance tax 
     credit for geographic variations in the cost-of-living; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, and Mr. Carson of Indiana):
       H.R. 1590. A bill to require the Small Business 
     Administration to make information relating to lenders making 
     covered loans publicly available, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. WELCH:
       H.R. 1591. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to adopt rules and conduct outreach to offer 
     recipients of assistance under the Lifeline Assistance 
     Program mobile devices that are capable of receiving a WiFi 
     signal and are capable of tethering with other WiFi 
     compatible hardware or devices, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOHO:
       H.R. 1592. A bill to remove penalties for health insurers 
     under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and 
     Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER (for herself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Welch, and 
             Mr. Soto):
       H.J. Res. 90. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to clarify the 
     authority of Congress and the States to regulate the 
     expenditure of funds for political activity by corporations; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself and Mr. Ruppersberger):
       H. Res. 200. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the United States should develop and 
     adopt a comprehensive cybersecurity policy; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Royce 
             of California, Mr. Engel, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, and Mr. Sires):
       H. Res. 201. A resolution expressing support to the 
     Government of Argentina for its investigation into the 
     terrorist bombing of the Embassy of Israel in Buenos Aires on 
     March 17, 1992; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Cole, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. 
             Hartzler, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Lance, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Moolenaar, Mrs. Torres, Mr. 
             Harris, and Mr. Peters):
       H. Res. 202. A resolution reaffirming the commitment of the 
     United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     (NATO); to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Nadler, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Speier, Ms. Moore, and Mr. 
             Swalwell of California):
       H. Res. 203. A resolution of inquiry requesting the 
     President, and directing the Attorney General, to transmit, 
     respectively, certain documents to the House of 
     Representatives relating to certain communications by the 
     President of the United States; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Sessions, 
             and Mr. Smith of Washington):
       H. Res. 204. A resolution declaring support for Brain 
     Awareness Week; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
       H. Res. 205. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives with respect to ensuring that women's 
     health care under current law is preserved; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



