

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 10 (Tuesday, January 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S342]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Flake, Mr. McCain, Mr. 
             Lee, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 147. A bill to prevent a taxpayer bailout of health 
     insurance issuers; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 148. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a credit against tax for qualified elementary and 
     secondary education tuition; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 149. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     provide student loan deferment for victims of terrorist 
     attacks; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 150. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide an additional tool to prevent certain frauds against 
     veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 151. A bill to provide appropriate information to 
     Federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies, pursuant 
     to investigating terrorism, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. McCain, and Mr. Toomey):
       S. 152. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the removal or demotion of employees of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs based on performance or 
     misconduct, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 153. A bill to ensure reliable observation of 
     hurricanes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 154. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to ensure 
     small businesses affected by the onset of transmissible 
     diseases are eligible for disaster relief; to the Committee 
     on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 155. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act to 
     permit employers to pay higher wages to their employees; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 156. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
     implement security measures in the electronic tax return 
     filing process to prevent tax refund fraud from being 
     perpetrated with electronic identity theft; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Nelson, and Mr. Lee):
       S. 157. A bill to allow seniors to file their Federal 
     income tax on a new Form 1040SR; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 158. A bill to eliminate the payroll tax for individuals 
     who have attained retirement age, to amend title II of the 
     Social Security Act to remove the limitation upon the amount 
     of outside income which an individual may earn while 
     receiving benefits under such title, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 159. A bill to terminate Operation Choke Point; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 160. A bill to reform the inspection process of housing 
     assisted by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 161. A bill to improve hurricane forecasting and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 162. A bill to restore Second Amendment rights in the 
     District of Columbia; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Lankford, and Mr. 
             Booker):
       S. 163. A bill to amend chapter 31 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to establish in statute the Presidential 
     Innovation Fellows Program; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Enzi, 
             Ms. Baldwin, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 164. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     reissue the final rules relating to the listing of the gray 
     wolf in the Western Great Lakes and the State of Wyoming 
     under the Endangered Species Act of 1973; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. ROUNDS:
       S. 165. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require an element in preseparation counseling for members of 
     the Armed Forces on assistance and support services for 
     caregivers of certain veterans through the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 166. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
     mint coins in commemoration of Muhammad Ali; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr. Roberts):
       S. 167. A bill to designate a National Memorial to Fallen 
     Educators at the National Teachers Hall of Fame in Emporia, 
     Kansas; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mr. Casey, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Nelson, and Mr. Thune):
       S. 168. A bill to amend and enhance certain maritime 
     programs of the Department of Transportation; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 169. A bill to counter anti-Semitism at the United 
     Nations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Crapo, Mr. 
             Nelson, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Graham, Mr. 
             Menendez, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Cotton, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Portman, Mr. Peters, Mr. Cruz, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 170. A bill to provide for nonpreemption of measures by 
     State and local governments to divest from entities that 
     engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
     divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr. Thune, Mr. Nelson, 
             Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Schatz, Ms. Cantwell, and Mr. 
             Wicker):
       S. 171. A bill to reauthorize and amend the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer 
     Corps Act of 2002, to reauthorize the Hydrographic Services 
     Improvement Act of 1998, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Ms. Warren, Ms. Stabenow, 
             Mr. Markey, and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 172. A bill to require the President to withdraw from 
     the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement and to make that 
     Agreement ineligible for expedited consideration by Congress; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 173. A bill to require the United States Postal Service 
     to designate a single, unique ZIP code for particular 
     communities; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 174. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     consolidate the reporting obligations of the Federal 
     Communications Commission in order to improve congressional 
     oversight and reduce reporting burdens; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Casey, 
             Mr. Brown, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Warner, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Tester, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Booker, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Heinrich, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Burr, and 
             Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 175. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain funds to the 
     Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 1974 United Mine 
     Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. McCONNELL:
       S. 176. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain funds to the 
     Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Brown, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Reed, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Franken, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Udall, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Booker, Mr. Warner, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. Menendez):
       S.J. Res. 5. A joint resolution removing the deadline for 
     the ratification of the equal rights amendment; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



