

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1354-H1355]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. McHENRY (for himself and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 1219. A bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 
     1940 to expand the investor limitation for qualifying venture 
     capital funds under an exemption from the definition of an 
     investment company; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Moulton, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Neal, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Kennedy, and Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts):
       H.R. 1220. A bill to establish the Adams Memorial 
     Commission to carry out the provisions of Public Law 107-62, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. FORTENBERRY (for himself and Mr. Crowley):
       H.R. 1221. A bill to seek the establishment of and 
     contributions to an International Fund for Israeli-
     Palestinian Peace; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mr. Schiff):
       H.R. 1222. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     coordinate Federal congenital heart disease research efforts 
     and to improve public education and awareness of congenital 
     heart disease, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, and Mr. 
             McCaul):
       H.R. 1223. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to authorize an extension of exclusivity periods 
     for certain drugs that are approved for a new indication for 
     a rare disease or condition, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ABRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. 
             Lucas, Mrs. Comstock, and Mr. Knight):
       H.R. 1224. A bill to amend the National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology Act to implement a framework, 
     assessment, and audits for improving United States 
     cybersecurity; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY:
       H.R. 1225. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Edwin Cole ``Ed'' Bearss, in recognition of his contributions 
     to preservation of American Civil War history and continued 
     efforts to bring our nation's history alive for new 
     generations through his interpretive storytelling; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself and Mr. Smith of New 
             Jersey):
       H.R. 1226. A bill to require reporting on acts of certain 
     foreign countries on Holocaust era assets and related issues, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself, Ms. Gabbard, and Mr. 
             Taylor):
       H.R. 1227. A bill to limit the application of Federal laws 
     to the distribution and consumption of marihuana, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on

[[Page H1355]]

     the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself and Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1228. A bill to provide for the appointment of members 
     of the Board of Directors of the Office of Compliance to 
     replace members whose terms expire during 2017, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 1229. A bill to repeal Public Law 107-40; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 1230. A bill to repeal the Authorization for Use of 
     Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Duffy, 
             and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 1231. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to establish a program to increase the 
     development of new drugs to treat pediatric cancers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. McCOLLUM:
       H.R. 1232. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     require each Federal agency to maintain and preserve data 
     assets of the agency, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 1233. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency to establish an emergency 
     flood activity pilot program to assist flood response efforts 
     in response to a levee failure or potential levee failure, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Mr. Holding, and Mr. 
             Butterfield):
       H.R. 1234. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make certain contract research eligible for the 
     research credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. NEAL (for himself, Mr. Barr, and Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1235. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint coins in recognition of the 60th Anniversary of the 
     Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Soto, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Vargas, and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1236. A bill to discontinue a Federal program that 
     authorizes State and local law enforcement officers to 
     investigate, apprehend, and detain aliens in accordance with 
     a written agreement with the Director of U.S. Immigration and 
     Customs Enforcement and to clarify that immigration 
     enforcement is solely a function of the Federal Government; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LaHood:
       H. Res. 151. A resolution honoring the life of former 
     Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Robert Henry 
     ``Bob'' Michel; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. GIBBS (for himself, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Hunter, 
             Mr. Marshall, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. 
             Messer, Mr. Babin, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Brady of Texas, 
             Mr. Denham, Mr. Marino, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Thomas J. 
             Rooney of Florida, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, 
             Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. DesJarlais, Mrs. Noem, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             Westerman, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Culberson, Mr. 
             Mitchell, Mr. Renacci, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Latta, Mr. Young of Iowa, and Mr. 
             Grothman):
       H. Res. 152. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that clean water is a national priority, 
     and that the June 29, 2015, Waters of the United States Rule 
     should be withdrawn or vacated; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas (for himself and Mr. Poe of 
             Texas):
       H. Res. 153. A resolution expressing concern over the 
     detainment of Sandy Phan-Gillis, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Schrader, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Castor of Florida, and 
             Mr. Cardenas):
       H. Res. 154. A resolution of inquiry requesting the 
     President of the United States and directing the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services to transmit certain information to 
     the House of Representatives relating to plans to repeal or 
     replace the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and 
     the health-related measures of the Health Care and Education 
     Reconciliation Act of 2010; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H. Res. 155. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the month of February 2017 as ``National Teen 
     Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month''; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



