

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H303-H304]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        AMERICA'S INFRASTRUCTURE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Quigley) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, a strong, safe, reliable, and efficient 
infrastructure system is vital for robust and sustainedeconomic growth. 
Comprehensive infrastructure reform is all-inclusive and requires an 
ongoing investment by the FederalGovernment in not just our roads and 
bridges but in all of the vital systems that support our way of life.
  Currently, the United States needs around $3.6 trillion in 
infrastructure investment by 2020, just to keep our country in astate 
of good repair. By contrast, China, perhaps our greatest international 
rival, spends nearly four times of its GDP oninfrastructure than we do 
and announced nearly a trillion dollars more infrastructure spending 
just last year.
  Put simply, our national infrastructure system is an embarrassment, 
earning a D-plus grade from the American Society ofCivil Engineers. It 
is a threat to our economy, to American jobs, to our national security, 
and to our environment.
  We need a public transportation system that gets people where they 
need to be, keeps our roads clear, and makes our citiesbetter places to 
live. We need a freight system that moves products and raw materials 
quickly, safely, and efficiently. We needairways that reliably move 
people and cargo around the country and the world in a timely manner. 
We need river locks and portsthat allow American farmers to ship their 
products to market, no matter where that is. We need water pipes and 
sewers thattransport safe, clean water to every American. And we need 
to close the broadband gap so that every American can take advantageof 
the opportunities the Internet provides.
  Investing in America's infrastructure is good politics, good 
economics, and the right thing to do. Each year, Americans takearound 
11 billion trips on public transportation systems like buses, commuter 
rail, and light rail, contributing to the $58billion industry that 
employs nearly half a million people. And yet, almost half of our 
Nation's buses and a quarter of our railassets are in marginal or poor 
condition.
  My city of Chicago is the crossroads for the Nation's freight system, 
and each day more than 54 million tons of freight ismoved across the 
U.S., and nearly a quarter of it passes through the Chicago city 
limits--at times, very slowly.
  We stand to lose $1 trillion a year in lost sales in 2020, if we fail 
to build out our freight infrastructure to keep pacewith future growth.
  Congestion is also an issue at our Nation's airports. Ground delays 
are becoming a greater challenge as more and more peoplefly regularly. 
These delays can have a very serious consequence, resulting in 
passengers being late to their destinations, lostproductivity from 
cargo sitting on runways, and increased pollution due to needlessly 
burning jet fuel.
  In addition to air and ground, we must also talk about our waterways. 
Each year millions of tons of material traverse inlandwaterways like 
the Mississippi River and the Saint Lawrence Seaway. But, according to 
the Army Corps of Engineers, there is abillion dollar maintenance 
backlog that threatens to keep our waterways from maintaining adequate 
levels of performance.
  There are problems in our water and sewer systems, too. The 240,000 
water main breaks that occur in this country each yearcost us more than 
$2.6 billion; not to mention the lost productivity caused by closed 
roads, lost water, and other indirectimpacts. Nearly all of the U.S. 
underground water pipes will reach or surpass their useful lifespans in 
the next decade. Thelonger we wait, the higher the price tag will 
become.
  Finally, we can use our infrastructure system to promote economic 
growth and economic equality, and one great way to do thatis to close 
the broadband gap and increase access to high-speed Internet. As many 
as 50 million Americans live in areas withoutthe ability to get high-
quality and useful Internet access. Extending the ability to get online 
benefits businesses, employees,students, and everyone else without this 
vital utility, all while spurring economic activities that ripple 
throughout theeconomy.

[[Page H304]]

  The benefits of smart investment and infrastructure are massive. 
Every billion spent in infrastructure creates 13,000 jobs,in addition 
to improving the efficiency of the system. And every dollar invested 
generates almost $3 in economic activity.
  Conversely, the consequences of failing to act are dire. Each 
American household stands to lose $3,400 per year indisposable income 
thanks to infrastructure deficiencies. That is money taken directly 
from our constituents' pockets, money theywould use to support 
themselves and their families, not to mention the economy as a whole, 
which could lose more than $4trillion in GDP and more than 2.5 million 
jobs by 2025.
  We owe it to each other and every one of our constituents to act. I 
urge the 115th Congress to prioritize infrastructurespending and pass a 
comprehensive package that addresses all aspects of the connected 
infrastructure system.

                          ____________________



