

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2557-H2559]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 1770. A bill to expand the Government's use and 
     administration of data to facilitate transparency, effective 
     governance, and innovation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, and Mr. Gaetz):
       H.R. 1771. A bill to improve the organization of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, to ensure the accuracy of 
     health care data used by the Department, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Appropriations, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each

[[Page H2558]]

     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Price of 
             North Carolina, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Kildee, and 
             Mr. Thompson of Mississippi):
       H.R. 1772. A bill to authorize the creation of a commission 
     to develop voluntary accessibility guidelines for electronic 
     instructional materials and related technologies used in 
     postsecondary education, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 1773. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     improve reporting on small business goals, achieve uniformity 
     in procurement terminology, clarify the role of small 
     business advocates, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Small Business.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself and Mr. Chabot):
       H.R. 1774. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide for improvements to small business development 
     centers, the women's business center program, the SCORE 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small 
     Business.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 1775. A bill to amend part D of title XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act to direct the President to negotiate 
     prescription drug prices and establish a formulary on behalf 
     of Medicare beneficiaries, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr. Cummings, Ms. 
             DeLauro, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1776. A bill to improve access to affordable 
     prescription drugs; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ABRAHAM:
       H.R. 1777. A bill to amend titles 10 and 32, United States 
     Code, to improve and enhance authorities relating to the 
     employment, use, status, and benefits of military technicians 
     (dual status), and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Ms. CHENEY (for herself, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Chaffetz, 
             Mr. McKinley, and Mr. Rothfus):
       H.R. 1778. A bill to provide that an order by the Secretary 
     of the Interior imposing a moratorium on Federal coal leasing 
     shall not take effect unless a joint resolution of approval 
     is enacted, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. COOPER (for himself, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Costa, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Bera, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. Peters, Mr. Himes, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Kind, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Buchanan, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Rodney 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Schrader, and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 1779. A bill to provide that Members of Congress may 
     not receive pay after October 1 of any fiscal year in which 
     Congress has not approved a concurrent resolution on the 
     budget and passed the regular appropriations bills; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. CRIST (for himself, Mr. Poliquin, Ms. Sinema, 
             Mr. Donovan, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Butterfield, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 1780. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a tax credit to seniors who install 
     modifications on their residences that would enable them to 
     age in place, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself and Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 1781. A bill to improve the ability of the Federal 
     Government to address synthetic opioids, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, and Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. GABBARD (for herself, Ms. Hanabusa, and Mr. 
             Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 1782. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     exempt certain flights from increased aviation security 
     service fees, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             and Ms. Roybal-Allard):
       H.R. 1783. A bill to revive and expand the Intermediate 
     Care Technician Pilot Program of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Beyer, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Connolly, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. 
             Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Langevin, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, 
             Mr. Peters, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Quigley, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Velazquez, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1784. A bill to prohibit drilling in the Arctic Ocean; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Olson, 
             Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mr. Hunter, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mrs. 
             Wagner, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, and Mr. Jody B. Hice 
             of Georgia):
       H.R. 1785. A bill to require a comprehensive regional 
     strategy to destroy the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham and 
     its affiliates, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
     Services, and Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 1786. A bill to reduce the rate of pay for Members of 
     Congress by 10 percent and to eliminate automatic pay 
     adjustments for Members; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself and Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico):
       H.R. 1787. A bill to provide that the pueblo of Santa Clara 
     may lease for 99 years certain restricted land, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 1788. A bill to extend the Vietnam Service Medal to 
     veterans of the Armed Forces who participated in the S.S. 
     Mayaguez rescue operation; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H.R. 1789. A bill to prohibit the pay of Members of 
     Congress during periods in which a Government shutdown is in 
     effect, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Moulton, 
             and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 1790. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, 
     and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish, in the 
     event of any war, a war tax to be collected and deposited in 
     a trust fund for the payment of benefits and compensation to 
     veterans of that war; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself and Mr. Smith of 
             Washington):
       H.R. 1791. A bill to establish the Mountains to Sound 
     Greenway National Heritage Area in the State of Washington, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. ROHRABACHER (for himself and Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 1792. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude from gross income compensation received by 
     employees consisting of qualified distributions of employer 
     stock; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself and Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1793. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the enrollment of veterans in certain courses of 
     education, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Mr. Moulton, Ms. DelBene, 
             Ms. Speier, and Mr. Cooper):
       H.R. 1794. A bill to reduce the annual rate of pay of 
     Members of Congress if a Government shutdown occurs during a 
     year, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Katko, Mr.

[[Page H2559]]

             Jordan, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Labrador, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Issa, and Mr. 
             Chabot):
       H.R. 1795. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     reform certain forfeiture procedures, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Financial Services, and Energy and Commerce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr. Jones, Mr. King of 
             New York, Mr. Heck, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Walz, Mr. Faso, and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 1796. A bill to amend title 37, United States Code, to 
     authorize, in connection with the permanent change of station 
     of a member of the Armed Forces requiring relocation to 
     another State, the reimbursement of the member for qualified 
     relicensing costs incurred by the spouse of the member to 
     secure a license or certification required by the State to 
     which the member and spouse relocate, to encourage States to 
     expedite license portability for military spouses, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 1797. A bill to improve the provision of health care 
     by the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Ms. Shea-Porter, and Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 1798. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program to promote and encourage 
     collaboration between the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
     nonprofit organizations and institutions of higher learning 
     that provide administrative assistance to veterans; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 1799. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     include a single comprehensive disability examination as part 
     of the required Department of Defense physical examination 
     for separating members of the Armed Forces, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JONES (for himself and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H. Con. Res. 41. Concurrent resolution commemorating the 
     100th anniversary of the United States declaration of war 
     against Germany and entry into World War I and recognizing 
     and appreciating the lasting historical significance and 
     heroic human endeavor and sacrifice of the United States 
     Armed Forces in that conflict; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Soto, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Slaughter, and 
             Mr. Raskin):
       H. Con. Res. 42. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that the Supreme Court misinterpreted the First 
     Amendment to the Constitution in the case of Buckley v. 
     Valeo; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



