

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1133-H1134]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               CELEBRATING 100 YEARS OF SAVANNAH'S NAACP

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Carter) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the 
100th anniversary of the NAACP's Savannah branch. In July of 1917, 
James Weldon Johnson, field secretary of the NAACP, established 
Georgia's first NAACP branch in Savannah with 68 original members.
  Similar to other NAACP branches, the Savannah branch pursues 
political, educational, social, and economic equality of minority 
groups and citizens. For the last 100 years, Savannah's NAACP branch 
has fought to eradicate racial hatred and discrimination in the 
community. Its first meeting of 2017 was held on January 22 at St. Paul 
Christian Methodist Episcopal Church to install new officers and 
leadership.
  I am proud to recognize today the branch's new officials, including 
President Al Scott, Vice Presidents W. Richard Shinhoster, Lynette 
Hymes, Barbara Magwood, Secretary Linda Carter, and Treasurer Joe Lang. 
I am confident in this leadership's ability to continue to uphold the 
values of the NAACP and help Savannah serve as an example to the nearly 
75 NAACP branches Georgia has today.


                    Remembering Stetson Bennett, Jr.

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember a 
lifelong public servant, Mr. Stetson Bennett, Jr., of Jesup, Georgia, 
who passed away on Thursday, February 9, 2017, at 87 years old.
  Mr. Bennett was born in 1929 to Reverend Stetson Bennett, Sr., and 
Irene Bennett in Wayne County. He graduated from Jesup High School in 
1947, before attending Auburn University. Around this time, he also 
married his wife, Patsy Jones. They were married for more than 69 
years.
  Mr. Bennett first entered public service in 1949, as chief deputy 
clerk. By 1965, he was elected clerk of superior court and served 
nearly 50 years. Recognized by the Georgia House of Representatives as 
the longest serving constitutional officer in Georgia, Mr. Bennett has 
received a number of honors throughout his career.
  His dedicated service earned him Clerk of the Year Award in 1985, the 
highest honor a clerk can receive. Fittingly, the award is now named in 
honor of Mr. Bennett. Perhaps his proudest achievement was when the 
citizens of Wayne County officially named the main courtroom the 
Stetson Bennett, Jr. Courtroom in honor of his years of service to the 
community he loved.
  In addition, he served as the president of the Wayne County Chamber 
of Commerce, was an active member of the Lions Club, and helped develop 
Wayne Memorial Hospital as a member of its board.
  Mr. Bennett was always proud of where he came from, which was clear 
from how selflessly he dedicated his life to Wayne County. He truly 
will be missed.


                         Prayers for Leigh Ryan

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask for your 
thoughts and prayers for Mrs. Leigh Ryan, a Tybee Island mother of two 
who is battling an aggressive form of cancer.
  Originally from Roberta, Georgia, Mrs. Ryan settled on Tybee Island 
20 years ago to work as a nurse at Memorial University Medical Center. 
Since arriving on Tybee Island, giving back to the community has been a 
top priority for Mrs. Ryan, who is a member of Junior League and often 
works with the homeless in the area.

[[Page H1134]]

  She was originally diagnosed with breast cancer in the fall of 2015, 
but through treatment, Mrs. Ryan believed herself to be cancer free. 
Unfortunately, around Thanksgiving of 2016, doctors told her the cancer 
was back.
  With Mrs. Ryan's twin 8-year-old daughters in mind a close friend 
began fundraising to help care for Mrs. Ryan's children as she 
continues her treatment. The community returned the kindness she showed 
them and raised more than $40,000 for Mrs. Ryan in the first week of 
collecting donations.

  It is inspiring to see a community come together to help someone in 
need, especially someone who has already done so much for the 
community. Please keep Mrs. Ryan, her daughters, and the generous 
community of Tybee Island in your thoughts.


               Remembering Mr. Wilmer Randell Kicklighter

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life 
of my dear friend, Mr. Randell Kicklighter, who passed away on 
Saturday, February 11, at the age of 74.
  Randell, as he was known to his family and friends, was an icon in 
the Garden City, Georgia, community. He spent his life helping others, 
sharing wisdom, and brightening people's days.
  At the age of 18, he met the love of his life, Bessie. Ten months 
after the couple met, they ran away and married. Randell went on to 
serve 2 years in the United States Army, making sure to always have 
Bessie by his side. During this period, the couple spent time in both 
the U.S. and Germany serving our Nation.
  When Randell returned from duty, he decided to go to beauty school 
and become a hairdresser, which would allow him to work beside Bessie 
every day. They opened a salon called Randell and Dean's, which quickly 
gained a reputation around Garden City. Clients would say you could not 
expect a quick trim because long conversations with Randell were a 
must. I can attest to this firsthand. You see, Randell kept my hair for 
over 37 years. Many times it was just he and I together, and he was 
truly one of my best friends.
  However, Randell worked harder than nearly anyone around. He never 
retired and worked until the last day in his salon. Each day after 
work, Randell would head to the gym to exercise. Even there, he 
continued his hard work and long conversations.
  In the 1960s, Randell won many power lifting competitions. Then, at 
the age of 61, he competed and won national bodybuilding competitions. 
Even at the gym, Randell was talking to people about his children and 
grandchildren and sharing tips about exercise.
  Randell was one of my best friends, and I will miss him, as will 
everyone who had the honor of knowing him.

                          ____________________



