

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2153]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 96

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 96, a bill to 
amend the Communications Act of 1934 to ensure the integrity of voice 
communications and to prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination 
among areas of the United States in the delivery of such 
communications.


                                 S. 129

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
129, a bill to reauthorize and amend the National Sea Grant College 
Program Act, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 130

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 130, a bill to require 
enforcement against misbranded milk alternatives.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit 
the conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration of war 
by Congress.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary 
registry to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Paul) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 407, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to permanently extend the railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 431, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand the use of telehealth for 
individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 464

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 464, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for a permanent Independence at Home 
medical practice program under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 512, a bill to modernize 
the regulation of nuclear energy.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative care at 
accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing schools, 
social work schools, and other programs, including physician assistant 
education programs, to promote education and research in palliative 
care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty careers in 
academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the Senator from 
Kansas (Mr. Roberts) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 720, a bill to amend the Export 
Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts 
against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by international 
governmental organizations against Israel and to direct the Export-
Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against Israel, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 722, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 733

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the names of the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) and 
the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange) were added as cosponsors of S. 
733, a bill to protect and enhance opportunities for recreational 
hunting, fishing, and shooting, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 2

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 2, a joint resolution 
proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
relative to limiting the number of terms that a Member of Congress may 
serve.


                               S. RES. 92

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 92, a resolution 
expressing concern over the disappearance of David Sneddon, and for 
other purposes.


                              S. RES. 100

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 100, a resolution 
condemning illegal Russian aggression in Ukraine on the three year 
anniversary of the annexation of Crimea.

                          ____________________



