

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1251]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF EL PASO, TEXAS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. O'Rourke) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. O'ROURKE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today out of deep concern about the 
safety and security of the community that I represent and of this 
country.
  El Paso, Texas, the city that I am so fortunate to serve and 
represent in Congress, happens to be the safest city not just in the 
State of Texas, but in the entire United States. There are a number of 
reasons for that: We have outstanding local law enforcement, whether it 
is the Sheriff's Department or El Paso City Police, State DPS troopers 
or Federal law enforcement, Border Patrol agents, Customs and Border 
Protection officers, and the agents of Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement.
  A big part of the explanation for our safety is the fact that 24 
percent of the people that I represent were born in another country. 
They have come to this country to do better, to get ahead, and to 
contribute to our success and to the American Dream. It is also because 
everyone in the community of El Paso feels comfortable and safe in 
reporting crime, in testifying and coming forward--especially in cases 
of domestic abuse--to local authorities.
  That is why I am so concerned after I received a call last night from 
the El Paso County judge, Veronica Escobar, to share with me an 
incident that happened last week in the El Paso County Courthouse, 
where a woman, undocumented Mexican national, had gone to the Center 
Against Sexual and Family Violence out of fear for her life after being 
abused, she alleged, by her boyfriend.
  The Center Against Sexual and Family Violence escorted her to the El 
Paso County Courthouse to receive a protection order. The judge granted 
that order. But in that courtroom where the judge granted the order 
were, according to the county attorney, the county judge, and the judge 
who presided over that trial, agents from Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement who escorted the domestic abuse survivor out of the 
courthouse and into detention and perhaps deportation to Mexico.
  We will not continue to be the safest city in America. We will not 
continue to contribute to the safety of the United States and to the 
State of Texas if people don't feel comfortable reporting domestic 
abuse, reporting crimes, serving as witnesses, and working with law 
enforcement.
  I urge this President, this administration, to send an unequivocal 
message to the Federal agents working in El Paso and every single one 
of our communities that it is imperative for the safety and security of 
this country and every person who is in this country that we respect 
all people of all communities regardless of their immigration status.
  (English translation of the statement made in Spanish is as follows:)
  We are the safest community in the United States because every person 
in our community feels safe. They feel safe because they can report 
crime to the authorities; they can report cases of domestic abuse to 
the authorities. And, through our work together, we are the safest 
city. We are going to lose this if we can't continue on this manner. If 
anyone has a question or problem about this, please contact my office 
at (915) 541-1400.
  Somos la comunidad mas segura de los Estados Unidos porque cualquier 
persona en nuestra comunidad se siente segura. Se siente segura porque 
puede reportar el crimen a las autoridades, pueden reportar los casos 
de abuso domestico a las autoridades. Y trabajando juntos, somos la 
ciudad mas segura. Vamos a perder esto si no podemos continuar en esta 
manera. Si alguien tiene pregunta o problema con esto, por favor 
llamenos a nuestra oficina (915) 541-1400.
  Mr. Speaker, if anyone in the community of El Paso is concerned, 
fears that they will not be able to come forward to report crime or 
domestic abuse, has a question and wants my help, I want to be there 
for them. They need to call me: (915) 541-1400.
  Mr. Speaker, we will continue to be the safest city in America when 
every member of our community feels safe, can work with law 
enforcement, and when law enforcement respects every single member of 
our community.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Texas will provide a 
translation of his remarks to the Clerk.

                          ____________________



