

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1016]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            RESOLVING THE MYSTERY OF RAOUL WALLENBERG'S FATE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, in 1944, President Roosevelt created 
the War Refugee Board in order to undertake efforts to rescue Jews from 
the Nazis and the atrocities of the Holocaust.
  That same year, a young Swedish diplomat accepted an appointment to 
travel to Hungary on a humanitarian mission, in large part sponsored by 
our War Refugee Board, to help protect Hungary's Jewish community. This 
young diplomat, Raoul Wallenberg, risked his life to save tens of 
thousands of Jews, if not more, from almost certain death in Nazi 
concentration camps.
  For his remarkable courage and humanitarian spirit, Wallenberg had 
been recognized and memorialized across the globe. In 1963, Yad Vashem 
recognized him as a righteous man among nations. In 1981, Raoul 
Wallenberg became the second person to be bestowed honorary United 
States citizenship. In 1995, Congress unveiled a bronze bust dedicated 
to Wallenberg here in the Capitol, and today, it can be found, 
appropriately, in Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center. Just 
3 years ago, Mr. Speaker, Congress awarded the Congressional Gold Medal 
to Raoul Wallenberg--the highest civilian honor that can be bestowed by 
Congress.
  Yet, for all of these memorials and all of these tributes since Raoul 
Wallenberg was last seen as a free man on January 17, 1945, his true 
fate remains a mystery. For 72 years now, the truth has eluded us and, 
worse, Raoul's family, loved ones, and the countless that he saved have 
been unable to receive the closure they deserve.
  For many years, my good friend and colleague, the late Tom Lantos 
took up the mantle of resolving the Wallenberg mystery. Not only was 
Tom the only Holocaust survivor to ever serve in Congress, but he 
managed to escape the horrors of the Holocaust, thanks to the actions 
of Raoul Wallenberg.
  It was Tom who introduced the legislation that became law bestowing 
honorary citizenship to Wallenberg; Tom who kept the focus on this 
case, never allowing it to be cast aside. It has been 72 years, Mr. 
Speaker, yet we still do not have the answers. It is now our turn to be 
asking the unanswered questions. We have a responsibility, indeed an 
obligation, to do the right thing.
  It was the United States Government and the War Refugee Board, along 
with the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee that largely 
sponsored Wallenberg's work in Hungary. We named him an honorary 
citizen and we bestowed upon him the highest honors. Yet, we have not 
done what needs to be done to resolve the questions surrounding his 
disappearance.
  When proclaiming Raoul Wallenberg a United States citizen, President 
Reagan asked: How can we comprehend the moral worth of a man who saved 
tens and tens of thousands of lives, including those of Congressman and 
Mrs. Lantos?
  We cannot possibly comprehend Raoul Wallenberg's moral worth, Mr. 
Speaker, but we must ask ourselves what our moral worth is if we don't 
do everything in our power to end this 72-year search for answers.
  I have presented a bipartisan resolution, H. Res. 58, which seeks to 
raise awareness of the Wallenberg case. This resolution builds upon the 
tireless efforts of so many: Wallenberg's parents; his half-brother, 
Guy; Guy's daughters, Marie and Louise; and Raoul's half-sister, Nina.
  It was Nina, Mr. Speaker, who served as guest of honor at the 
Congressional Gold Medal ceremony in this building in 2012. This 
resolution builds upon the tremendous research by the scholars and 
volunteers over the years by raising outstanding questions that linger 
to this very day.
  The resolution also urges the administration, from the President on 
down, to raise the case of Wallenberg to their Russian counterparts, 
and it calls upon Russia to open its archives so that we can finally 
get some answers.
  I urge my colleagues to support this important resolution. Remember, 
H. Res. 58. I urge all of us to show just a little bit of courage--the 
same courage that Raoul Wallenberg exemplified--by taking action. It is 
our duty to remember Raoul's heroic actions, his sacrifice, and to 
build upon his legacy, Mr. Speaker. It is also our duty to bring an end 
to this tragic injustice and to finally resolve the mystery of the fate 
of Raoul Wallenberg.

                          ____________________



