

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H975-H977]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Garrett, Mr. 
             Griffith, Mr. Peterson, and Mr. Chabot):
       H.R. 843. A bill to provide for a safe harbor for reports 
     to potential employers by current or former employers of 
     violent behavior or threats thereof by employees; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             King of Iowa, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Babin, Mr. Brat, 
             and Mr. Luetkemeyer):
       H.R. 844. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to facilitate the removal of aliens identified in the 
     terrorist screening database, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Heck, and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 845. A bill to provide for ocean acidification 
     collaborative research grant opportunities; to the Committee 
     on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H.R. 846. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     repeal the requirement for reduction of survivor annuities 
     under the Survivor Benefit Plan for military surviving 
     spouses to offset the receipt of veterans dependency and 
     indemnity compensation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri:
       H.R. 847. A bill to preserve the name of the Squaw Creek 
     National Wildlife Refuge, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Bishop 
             of Georgia, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Conaway, Mr. 
             Costa, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Denham, Mr. 
             Gibbs, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Long, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Rouzer, 
             Mr. Schrader, Mr. Simpson, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Stefanik, 
             Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Vela, 
             Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, and Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer):
       H.R. 848. A bill to amend the Solid Waste Disposal Act to 
     incentivize efficient nutrient management practices and to 
     clarify the citizen suit provisions of such Act, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Bost, Mr. Abraham, 
             Mr. King of Iowa, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Marshall, 
             and Mr. Allen):
       H.R. 849. A bill to repeal the provisions of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act providing for the 
     Independent Payment Advisory Board; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committees on Energy and 
     Commerce, and Rules, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALMER (for himself, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Allen, 
             Mr. Babin, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Blum, Mr. Brat, Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Buck, Mr. 
             Byrne, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Davidson, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Emmer, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Fleischmann, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Gohmert, 
             Mr. Griffith, Mr. Harris, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, Mr. Jordan, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             Mullin, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Perry, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. 
             Renacci, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Sanford, Mr. 
             Schweikert, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Walker, Mr. Westerman, Mr. 
             Young of Iowa, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Carter of Georgia, 
             Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Hudson, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia, Mr. Russell, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Arrington, and Mr. Budd):
       H.R. 850. A bill to require the appropriation of funds to 
     use a fee, fine, penalty, or proceeds from a settlement 
     received by a Federal agency, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committees on the Judiciary, the Budget, and Rules, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Heck, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Cummings, and Mr. Meeks):
       H.R. 851. A bill to require the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to discount FHA single-family mortgage 
     insurance premium payments for first-time homebuyers who 
     complete a financial literacy housing counseling program; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr. Larsen of Washington, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Price of 
             North Carolina, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Payne, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Heck, Mr. Welch, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Cohen, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Sarbanes, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Brady

[[Page H976]]

             of Pennsylvania, Ms. Speier, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Carson 
             of Indiana, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Kind, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Kildee, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Velazquez, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Lewis 
             of Georgia, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Esty, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Rush, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Sires, Mr. Butterfield, 
             Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Pascrell, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Nadler, 
             Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Walz, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. O'Rourke, 
             Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Keating, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Suozzi, 
             Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Lee, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Himes, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Ms. Meng, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Titus, Mr. 
             Levin, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Langevin, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Doggett, Mr. 
             Lynch, and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 852. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide that an alien may not be denied admission or 
     entry to the United States, or other immigration benefits, 
     because of the alien's religion, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BLACK:
       H.R. 853. A bill to prohibit Federal funding to entities 
     that do not certify the entities will not perform, or provide 
     any funding to any other entity that performs, an abortion; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. Renacci, 
             and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 854. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the qualification requirements with respect to 
     certain multiple employer plans with pooled plan providers, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             Ellison, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Neal, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Lipinski, and Ms. Schakowsky):
       H.R. 855. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of the Treasury to provide for the 
     purchase of paper United States savings bonds with tax 
     refunds; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Mr. Welch, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 856. A bill to reauthorize the VOW to Hire Heroes Act 
     of 2011, to provide assistance to small businesses owned by 
     veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
     Services, Oversight and Government Reform, the Judiciary, and 
     Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COOK:
       H.R. 857. A bill to provide for conservation and enhanced 
     recreation activities in the California Desert Conservation 
     Area, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Ms. Hanabusa, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Barragan, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Levin, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Brown of Maryland, Mr. Soto, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Khanna, 
             Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Vela, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. 
             Speier, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Thompson of California, and 
             Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 858. A bill to require the Attorney General to make 
     grants to nonprofit organizations to offer legal assistance 
     to certain aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence, 
     DACA recipients, and refugees, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS:
       H.R. 859. A bill to prevent conflicts of interest that stem 
     from executive Government employees receiving bonuses or 
     other compensation arrangements from nongovernment sources, 
     from the revolving door that raises concerns about the 
     independence of financial services regulators, and from the 
     revolving door that casts aspersions over the awarding of 
     Government contracts and other financial benefits; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committees on the Judiciary, and Financial Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 860. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to establish a grant program for States that 
     provide flexibility in licensing for health care providers 
     who offer services on a volunteer basis; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself, Mr. Massie, Mr. Palazzo, and 
             Mr. Loudermilk):
       H.R. 861. A bill to terminate the Environmental Protection 
     Agency; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Agriculture, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Science, Space, and Technology, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr. Guthrie, and Mrs. 
             Blackburn):
       H.R. 862. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to transition the Medicaid thresholds applied for 
     determining acceptable provider taxes, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut:
       H.R. 863. A bill to facilitate the addition of park 
     administration at the Coltsville National Historical Park, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Hill, and 
             Mr. Cleaver):
       H.R. 864. A bill to amend the Fair Debt Collection 
     Practices Act to restrict the debt collection practices of 
     certain debt collectors; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr. Cook, Mr. Gosar, 
             Mr. Stewart, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. McCarthy, 
             Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Nunes, 
             Mr. Denham, and Mr. Knight):
       H.R. 865. A bill to make a categorical exclusion available 
     to the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the 
     Interior to develop and carry out a forest management 
     activity on National Forest system lands derived from the 
     public domain or public lands to address insect or disease 
     infestation declared as an emergency in a State by the 
     Governor of such State, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. McNerney, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Keating, Mr. Issa, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Cicilline, and 
             Mr. Royce of California):
       H.R. 866. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     extend the coverage of the Federal prohibition against 
     stalking in order to provide protection to friends and co-
     workers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Lofgren, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 867. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to allow workers who attain age 65 after 1981 and before 
     1992 to choose either lump sum payments over four years 
     totaling $5,000 or an improved benefit computation formula 
     under a new 10-year rule governing the transition to the 
     changes in benefit computation rules enacted in the Social 
     Security Amendments of 1977, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Velazquez, 
             and Mr. Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 868. A bill to establish within the Smithsonian 
     Institution the National Museum of Asian Pacific American 
     History and Culture, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on House Administration, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and Natural Resources, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Velazquez, 
             and Mr. Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 869. A bill to establish the Commission to Study the 
     Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific 
     American History and Culture, and for other purposes;

[[Page H977]]

     to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Mr. 
             Babin):
       H.R. 870. A bill to direct the National Aeronautics and 
     Space Administration to plan to return to the Moon and 
     develop a sustained human presence on the Moon; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Loudermilk, 
             and Mr. Huizenga):
       H.J. Res. 62. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to prepaid accounts under the 
     Electronic Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. Hunter, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Byrne, and Mr. 
             Wenstrup):
       H.J. Res. 63. A joint resolution to authorize the use of 
     the United States Armed Forces against the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself and Mr. Scott of Virginia):
       H. Res. 86. A resolution providing amounts for the expenses 
     of the Committee on Education and the Workforce in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Conyers, and Ms. 
             Moore):
       H. Res. 87. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that a Global Marshall Plan holds the 
     potential to demonstrate the commitment of the United States 
     to peace and prosperity through poverty reduction in the 
     United States and abroad; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. HARRIS (for himself, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, and Mr. Levin):
       H. Res. 88. A resolution calling on the Russian Federation 
     to stop the violence in Ukraine, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself and Mr. Donovan):
       H. Res. 89. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the recent presidential 
     elections and transfer of power in The Gambia, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pocan, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. McNerney, and Mr. Cardenas):
       H. Res. 90. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that gun violence is a public health issue 
     and Congress should enact by the end of the 115th Congress 
     comprehensive Federal legislation that protects the Second 
     Amendment and keeps communities safe and healthy, including 
     expanding enforceable background checks for all commercial 
     gun sales, improving the mental health system in the United 
     States, and making gun trafficking and straw purchasing a 
     Federal crime; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



