

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1933]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 158

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 158, a bill to eliminate the 
payroll tax for individuals who have attained retirement age, to amend 
title II of the Social Security Act to remove the limitation upon the 
amount of outside income which an individual may earn while receiving 
benefits under such title, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Paul) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 260, a bill to repeal the provisions of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act providing for the Independent 
Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 261

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 261, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain 
disclosure requirements for restaurants and similar retail food 
establishments, and to amend the authority to bring proceedings under 
section 403A.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
382, a bill to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
develop a voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the 
Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray) were added as cosponsors of S. 
407, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently 
extend the railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 425

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 425, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve the historic rehabilitation 
tax credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to prevent the 
sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring the prompt 
reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 573

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 573, a bill to 
establish the National Criminal Justice Commission.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 636

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 636, a bill 
to allow Americans to earn paid sick time so that they can address 
their own health needs and the health needs of their families.


                                 S. 637

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 637, a bill to amend titles 
XI and XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide greater transparency 
of discounts provided by drug manufacturers.


                                 S. 672

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 672, a bill to require a 
report on designation of North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 681, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
improve the benefits and services provided by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 17

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 17, a joint resolution 
approving the discontinuation of the process for consideration and 
automatic implementation of the annual proposal of the Independent 
Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the Social Security Act.


                              S.J. RES. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 27, a 
joint resolution disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of 
Labor relating to ``Clarification of Employer's Continuing Obligation 
to Make and Maintain an Accurate Record of Each Recordable Injury and 
Illness''.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a 
concurrent resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 88

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 88, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that the President and the Secretary 
of State should ensure that the Government of Canada does not 
permanently store nuclear waste in the Great Lakes Basin.

                          ____________________



