

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S490-S491]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 26

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 26, a bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
1978 to require the disclosure of certain tax returns by Presidents and 
certain candidates for the office of the President, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 32

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 32, a bill to 
provide for conservation, enhanced recreation opportunities, and 
development of renewable energy in the California Desert Conservation 
Area, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 33

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from 
Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 33, a bill to 
provide for congressional approval of national monuments and 
restrictions on the use of national monuments, to establish 
requirements for the declaration of marine national monuments, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 87

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 87, a bill to ensure that 
State and local law enforcement may cooperate with Federal officials to 
protect our communities from violent criminals and suspected terrorists 
who are illegally present in the United States.


                                 S. 105

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 105, a bill to amend the 
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to transition the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection to a 5-member board of directors.


                                 S. 107

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 107, a bill to prohibit voluntary or assessed 
contributions to the United Nations until the President certifies to 
Congress that United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 has been 
repealed.


                                 S. 143

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 143, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against income tax for 
amounts paid by a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces for a new 
State license or certification required by reason of a permanent change 
in the duty station of such member to another State.


                                 S. 152

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 152, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to provide for the removal or demotion of employees 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs based on performance or 
misconduct, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 166

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 166, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of 
Muhammad Ali.


                                 S. 176

  At the request of Mr. McConnell, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 176, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 178

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 178, a bill to prevent elder abuse and 
exploitation and improve the justice system's response to victims in 
elder abuse and exploitation cases.


                                 S. 179

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 179, a bill to 
expand the use of E-Verify, to hold employers accountable, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 181

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 181, a bill to ensure that 
certain Federal public works and infrastructure projects use materials 
produced in the United States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 191

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 191, a bill to 
improve patient choice by allowing States to adopt market-based 
alternatives to the Affordable Care Act that increase access to 
affordable health insurance and reduce costs while ensuring important 
consumer protections and improving patient care.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require 
continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual 
Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in 
Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the 
efforts of the United States to partner with European governments, the 
European Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 202

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 202, a bill to amend the Social 
Security Act relating to the use of determinations made by the 
Commissioner.


                                 S. 205

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Georgia

[[Page S491]]

(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch), the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 205, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to repeal the estate and generation-skipping transfer 
taxes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 207

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 207, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act relating to controlled substance analogues.


                                 S. 220

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 220, a bill to amend title 18, United States 
Code, to prohibit a health care practitioner from failing to exercise 
the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives an 
abortion or attempted abortion.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 223, a bill to provide immunity from suit for 
certain individuals who disclose potential examples of financial 
exploitation of senior citizens, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 224

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford), 
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) and the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) were added as cosponsors of S. 224, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to prohibit taking minors across 
State lines in circumvention of laws requiring the involvement of 
parents in abortion decisions.


                                 S. 230

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 230, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against 
income tax for facilities using a qualified methane conversion 
technology to provide transportation fuels and chemicals.


                                 S. 231

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 231, a bill to implement 
equal protection under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States for the right to life of each born and preborn human 
person.


                                 S. 235

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 235, a bill to expand 
opportunity through greater choice in education, and for other 
purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune) and 
the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) were added as cosponsors of 
S.J. Res. 1, a joint resolution approving the location of a memorial to 
commemorate and honor the members of the Armed Forces who served on 
active duty in support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert 
Shield.


                              S.J. RES. 2

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 2, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relative to limiting the number of terms that a Member of 
Congress may serve.


                              S.J. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 6, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relative to equal rights for men and women.


                              S.J. RES. 8

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 8, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relating to contributions and expenditures intended to affect 
elections.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the 
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan) were added as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent 
resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 15

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 15, a resolution expressing 
the sense of the Senate that the Mexico City policy should be 
permanently established.


                               S. RES. 18

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 18, a 
resolution reaffirming the United States-Argentina partnership and 
recognizing Argentina's economic reforms.

                          ____________________



