

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1011-H1012]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, and Mr. Royce of California):
       H.R. 871. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exempt premiums paid on non-cash-value property and 
     casualty insurance from the taxes to enforce reporting on 
     certain foreign accounts; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Moore, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 872. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to enhance medical device communications and 
     ensure device cleanliness; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 873. A bill to authorize the Global War on Terror 
     Memorial Foundation to establish the National Global War on 
     Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the District of 
     Columbia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself, Mr. Stivers, Mrs. Bustos, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Weber of Texas, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Himes, Mr. Vargas, 
             Mr. Barletta, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Olson, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Jones, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Denham, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Young of Alaska, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Valadao, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Paulsen, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Vela, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Soto, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Emmer, 
             Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Swalwell of California, and Mr. 
             Katko):
       H.R. 874. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that certain veterans receive in-patient psychiatric 
     care provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE:
       H.R. 875. A bill to facilitate and streamline the Bureau of 
     Reclamation process for creating or expanding water storage, 
     rural water supply, and water recycling projects under 
     Reclamation law, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, 
             Mr. King of New York, Mr. Vela, Mr. Keating, and Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 876. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to reform programs of the Transportation Security 
     Administration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. AMODEI (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Burgess, 
             Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Jones, Miss Rice of New York, Ms. Clark 
             of Massachusetts, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Heck, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Hill, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. LoBiondo, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, 
             Mr. Renacci, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Marino, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Stewart, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Ross, Mr. King of New 
             York, Mr. Wittman, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Pearce, and Mr. 
             Wenstrup):
       H.R. 877. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army to 
     place in Arlington National Cemetery a monument honoring the 
     helicopter pilots and crewmembers who were killed while 
     serving on active duty in the Armed Forces during the Vietnam 
     era, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Cramer, 
             Mr. Grothman, Mr. Messer, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Stewart, 
             Mr. Lance, Mr. Olson, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Lamborn, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. McSally, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, 
             Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. Barr, Mr. Bridenstine, 
             Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. Smucker, Mr. 
             Brat, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Marino, 
             Mr. Rokita, and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 878. A bill to authorize the use of unapproved medical 
     products by patients diagnosed with a terminal illness in 
     accordance with State law, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Ms. Esty):
       H.R. 879. A bill to require the Government Accountability 
     Office to conduct periodic reviews of the flood insurance 
     rates and flood insurance rate maps under the national flood 
     insurance program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, 
             Mr. Hudson, and Ms. Castor of Florida):
       H.R. 880. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     facilitate assignment of military trauma care providers to 
     civilian trauma centers in order to maintain military trauma 
     readiness and to support such centers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mrs. Blackburn, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             McCaul, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Sherman, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Tipton, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Franks of Arizona, 
             Mr. Issa, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Marino, and 
             Mr. Collins of Georgia):
       H.R. 881. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     provide for direct payment of statutory sound recording 
     performance royalties to record producers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CUELLAR (for himself, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Gene Green 
             of Texas, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. O'Rourke, and Mr. Vela):
       H.R. 882. A bill to provide for a general capital increase 
     for the North American Development Bank, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS:
       H.R. 883. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide a certification process for the issuance of 
     nondisclosure requirements accompanying certain 
     administrative subpoenas, to provide for judicial review of 
     such nondisclosure requirements, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HILL:
       H.R. 884. A bill to clarify that volunteers at a children's 
     consignment event are not employees under the Fair Labor 
     Standards Act of 1938; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Mr. Larson 
             of Connecticut):
       H.R. 885. A bill to extend the waiver of limitations with 
     respect to excluding from gross income amounts received by 
     wrongfully incarcerated individuals; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.

[[Page H1012]]

  

           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 886. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Defense to permit dependents of 
     retired members of the Armed Forces who reside in military 
     housing to attend Department of Defense elementary and 
     secondary schools; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 887. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to extend honorary citizenship to otherwise qualified 
     noncitizens who enlisted in the Philippines and died while 
     serving on active duty with the United States Armed Forces 
     during certain periods of hostilities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 888. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve dependency and indemnity compensation for survivors 
     of certain totally disabled veterans; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself and 
             Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 889. A bill to provide for the establishment of an 
     office within the Internal Revenue Service to focus on 
     violations of the internal revenue laws by persons who are 
     under investigation for conduct relating to the promotion of 
     commercial sex acts and trafficking in persons crimes, and to 
     increase the criminal monetary penalty limitations for the 
     underpayment or overpayment of tax due to fraud; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.R. 890. A bill to establish the United States Copyright 
     Office as an agency in the legislative branch, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 891. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, 
     with respect to employee protective arrangements, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 892. A bill to adjust the amount of monthly old-age, 
     survivors, and disability insurance payments under title II 
     of the Social Security Act based on locality-based 
     comparability payment rates; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 893. A bill to protect, improve, and modernize the act 
     of voting; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PAULSEN:
       H.R. 894. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exclude from gross income certain interest and money 
     market fund dividend income payments to charity and to modify 
     the requirements relating to the reporting of such payments; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself, Mr. Messer, and Mr. Franks 
             of Arizona):
       H.R. 895. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a credit against tax for qualified elementary and 
     secondary education tuition; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Stivers, and Mr. 
             Wenstrup):
       H.R. 896. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exempt amounts paid for aircraft management services from 
     the excise taxes imposed on transportation by air; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Suozzi, and Miss Rice of New York):
       H.R. 897. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to make grants to State and local entities to carry 
     out peer-to-peer mental health programs; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHRADER:
       H.J. Res. 64. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States giving Congress power 
     to regulate campaign contributions for Federal elections; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, 
             Mr. Engel, and Ms. Meng):
       H. Con. Res. 20. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of the House of Representatives regarding the execution-style 
     murders of United States citizens Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet 
     Bytyqi in the Republic of Serbia in July 1999; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Issa, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Keating, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mr. Bera, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Meeks, 
             Mrs. Torres, Mr. Sires, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Speier, Mr. Connolly, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Evans, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Crowley, 
             Mr. Himes, Mr. Schneider, Ms. Titus, Mr. Cohen, and 
             Mr. McGovern):
       H. Con. Res. 21. Concurrent resolution reaffirming a strong 
     commitment to the United States-Australia alliance 
     relationship; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Yoho, and Mr. 
             Sherman):
       H. Res. 92. A resolution condemning North Korea's 
     development of multiple intercontinental ballistic missiles, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself and Mr. Grijalva):
       H. Res. 93. A resolution providing amounts for the expenses 
     of the Committee on Natural Resources in the One Hundred 
     Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself, Mr. Raskin, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Vargas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Soto, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Speier, Ms. McCollum, and Ms. 
             Bass):
       H. Res. 94. A resolution commending Sally Quillian Yates 
     for refusing to enforce Donald Trump's discriminatory 
     Executive Order 13769 (82 Fed. Reg. 8977; relating to 
     ``Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the 
     United States''); to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



