

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 63

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 63, a bill to clarify the 
rights of Indians and Indian tribes on Indian lands under the National 
Labor Relations Act.


                                 S. 92

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King), the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 92, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act to allow for the personal importation of safe and 
affordable drugs from approved pharmacies in Canada.


                                 S. 102

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 102, a bill to 
direct the Federal Communications Commission to commence proceedings 
related to the resiliency of critical communications networks during 
times of emergency, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under the 
Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 178

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 178, a bill to prevent elder abuse and 
exploitation and improve the justice system's response to victims in 
elder abuse and exploitation cases.


                                 S. 241

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 241, a bill to prohibit 
Federal funding of Planned Parenthood Federation of America.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient 
rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health 
care services for veterans.


                                 S. 326

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 326, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the tax-exempt financing 
of certain government-owned buildings.


                                 S. 338

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 338, a bill to protect scientific integrity 
in Federal research and policymaking, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 347

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 347, a bill to amend 
the Small Business Act and the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to 
increase the percentage of loans guaranteed for small business concerns 
that are manufacturers.


                              S.J. RES. 13

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 13, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the final rule submitted by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services relating to compliance with 
title X requirements by project recipients in selecting subrecipients.


                              S.J. RES. 14

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were 
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 14, a joint resolution providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States 
Code, of the rule submitted by the Social Security Administration 
relating to Implementation of the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 
2007.
  At the request of Mr. Strange, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S.J. Res. 14, supra.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint resolution 
approving the discontinuation of the process for consideration and 
automatic implementation of the annual proposal of the Independent 
Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the Social Security Act.


                               S. RES. 58

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 58, a 
resolution congratulating the New England Patriots on their victory in 
Super Bowl LI.

                          ____________________



