

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H389-H391]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following

[[Page H390]]

titles were introduced and severallyreferred, as follows:

           By Mr. WEBER of Texas (for himself, Mr. Knight, Mr. 
             Smithof Texas, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, 
             Mr. Lucas, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Tonko,Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Peters, Mr. Hultgren,and Mr. 
             Rohrabacher):
       H.R. 431. A bill to enable civilian research and 
     development ofadvanced nuclear energy technologies by private 
     and public institutions, to expand theoretical and practical 
     knowledge ofnuclear physics, chemistry, and materials 
     science, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, and Ms. Kuster ofNew Hampshire):
       H.R. 432. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand and modifythe credit for employee health insurance 
     expenses of small employers; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, and Mr. Cramer):
       H.R. 433. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of Energy from 
     planning, developing, or constructing adefense waste 
     repository until the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has made a 
     final decision with respect to the constructionauthorization 
     application for the Yucca Mountain Nuclear Waste Repository; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DENHAM (for himself, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Newhouse, 
             Mr. Calvert, Mr.Costa, and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 434. A bill to authorize a pilot project for 
     aninnovative water project financing program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Pittenger, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Duffy,Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Meeks, Mrs. Love, 
             Mr. Capuano, Mr. Renacci, Ms.Moore, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Grijalva, and Ms. Schakowsky):
       H.R. 435. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     clarify Federal law with respect to reporting certainpositive 
     consumer credit information to consumer reporting agencies, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     FinancialServices.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself and Ms. Meng):
       H.R. 436. A bill to prioritize the fight against human 
     trafficking within the Department of State according 
     tocongressional intent in the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Act of 2000 without increasing the size of the Federal 
     Government,and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself andMrs. Brooks of 
             Indiana):
       H.R. 437. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     tocodify authority under existing grant guidance authorizing 
     use of Urban Area Security Initiative and State Homeland 
     SecurityGrant Program funding for enhancing medical 
     preparedness, medical surge capacity, and mass prophylaxis 
     capabilities; to theCommittee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. VARGAS (for himself and Mr. Hunter):
       H.R. 438. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to establish aCalifornia New 
     River restoration program to build on, and help coordinate 
     funding for, restoration and protection effortsrelating to 
     the New River, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee 
     onTransportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration ofsuch provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RENACCI (forhimself, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. 
             Barletta,Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Roskam, Mrs.Comstock, 
             Mr. Joyce of Ohio, and Mr. Reichert):
       H.R. 439. A bill to amend theInternal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to prevent tax-related identity theft and tax fraud, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee onWays and Means.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 440. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     permit sentencing judges in child sextrafficking cases to 
     order the Attorney General to publicize the name and 
     photograph of the convicted defendants, and for 
     otherpurposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CALVERT (for himself, Mr. Rohrabacher,Mr. 
             Knight, and Mr. Hunter):
       H.R. 441. A bill to provide for additional 
     securityrequirements for Syrian and Iraqi refugees, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mr. Sanford, Ms. Lee, Mr.Pocan, Mr. Amash, Mr. 
             Crawford, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 442. A bill to lift the trade embargo on Cuba, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     inaddition to the Committees on Ways and Means, Financial 
     Services, and Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined bythe Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. DesJARLAIS (for himself and Mrs. Blackburn):
       H.R.443. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     study the suitability and feasibility of designating the 
     James K. PolkHome in Columbia, Tennessee, as a unit of the 
     National Park System, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on NaturalResources.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Mr. Buchanan, and Mr. 
             Welch):
       H.R. 444. A bill to establish an advisory office within the 
     Bureau of Consumer Protection of theFederal Trade Commission 
     to prevent fraud targeting seniors, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Mr. Quigley, and Mr. 
             Connolly):
       H.R. 445. A bill to establish a gun buyback grant program; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 446. A bill to extend the deadline for commencement 
     ofconstruction of a hydroelectric project; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr.GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 447. A bill to extend the deadline for commencement of 
     construction of ahydroelectric project; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.Rohrabacher, Mr. 
             Doggett, Ms. McSally, and Mr. LaMalfa):
       H.R. 448. A billto amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand the exclusion for certain conservation subsidies to 
     include subsidies forwater conservation or efficiency 
     measures and storm water management measures; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Gowdy, 
             Mr. Collins of New York,and Mr. Butterfield):
       H.R. 449. A bill to require the Surgeon General of the 
     Public HealthService to submit to Congress a report on the 
     effects on public health of the increased rate of use of 
     synthetic drugs; to theCommittee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 450. A billto amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     ensure that every military chaplain has the prerogative to 
     close a prayer outside of areligious service according to the 
     dictates of the chaplain's own conscience; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Gosar,Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Long, Mr. Messer, and Mr. Poe of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 451. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the estate tax and retainstepped-up basis at death; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself,Mr. Clay, Mrs. Wagner, 
             Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Graves of Missouri, 
             Mr. Long, Mr.Smith of Missouri, and Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 452. A bill to designate the facility ofthe United 
     States Postal Service located at 324 West Saint Louis Street 
     in Pacific, Missouri, as the ``Specialist Jeffrey L.White, 
     Jr. Post Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. PETERSON(for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Smith 
             of Missouri, Mr. Long, Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. 
             Emmer,Mr. Sensenbrenner, and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 453. A bill to deem the Step 2 compliance datefor 
     standards of performance for new residential wood heaters, 
     new residential hydronic heaters, and forced-air furnaces to 
     beMay 15, 2023; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H.R. 454. A bill to amend the Illegal Immigration and 
     Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to direct the Secretary 
     ofHomeland Security to complete the required 700-mile 
     southwest border fencing by December 31, 2017, and for other 
     purposes; tothe Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
       H.R. 455. A bill to designate the United States courthouse 
     located at 501 East Court Street in Jackson, Mississippi, 
     asthe ``R. Jess Brown United States Courthouse''; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr. Kihuen, and Ms. Rosen):
       H.R. 456. A bill torequire the Secretary of Energy to 
     obtain the consent of affected State and local governments 
     before making an expenditure fromthe Nuclear Waste Fund for a 
     nuclear waste repository; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Ms.TITUS:
       H.R. 457. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the appealsprocess of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr.TROTT (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 458. A bill to require the Secretary ofTransportation 
     to conduct a study on the economic and environmental risks to 
     the Great Lakes of spills or leaks of oil, and forother 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition

[[Page H391]]

     to the Committee on Energy andCommerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fallwithin the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself, Ms.Gabbard, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Mrs. Beatty, Mr.Meehan, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
             Paulsen, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mrs. Noem, Mr. 
             Knight, Mrs.Black, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Cramer, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Ms.Stefanik, Mr. 
             Young of Iowa, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Titus, and Mr.Royce of California):
       H.R. 459. A bill to provide for the vacating of certain 
     convictionsand expungement of certain arrests of victims of 
     human trafficking; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Stewart, Mr.Pocan, Mr. 
             Latta, Mr. Kind, Mr. Nolan, Mrs. Noem, and Mr. 
             Cramer):
       H.R. 460. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     ensure the integrity of voice communications and to 
     preventunjust or unreasonable discrimination among areas of 
     the United States in the delivery of such communications; to 
     the Committeeon Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr.Foster, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Speier, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Ms. DeLauro,Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Judy Chu of California, and Mr. 
             McGovern):
       H. Res. 44. A resolution expressing support for designation 
     of February 12, 2017, as ``Darwin Day'' and recognizing 
     theimportance of science in the betterment of humanity; to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 45. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committeesof the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.

                          ____________________



