

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1740]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO STACEY ESCALANTE

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Stacey 
Escalante of Las Vegas. Stacey is a Nevada mother who battled cancer 
and won. Ever since she defeated cancer, Stacey has taken herself to 
new heights and translated her strength into action. Her story makes us 
all proud to call Nevada home.
  Stacey Escalante was diagnosed with stage 3 skin cancer over 10 years 
ago when she was still a news reporter for KVBC, now KSNV-TV. Up until 
this point, she was a model for health, but as we all know, cancer is a 
disease of its own. After several medical procedures, constant trips to 
the doctor, Stacey had to endure years of screenings and follow-up 
medical procedures before the cancer finally went into remission. 
During this time, she was forced to take a leave of absence from her 
job in order to recover. Even worse, she had to spend an extended 
period of time away from her family and friends.
  During this recovery, Stacey wanted to come back home. She knew she 
would recover if she got to be at home surrounded by her family and 
coworkers who cared deeply about her. Fortunately, Stacey was able to 
return home and be with her family and friends; there she continued to 
fight cancer tooth and nail.
  After she recovered, Stacey didn't just go back to work and pick up 
where she left off. Instead, Stacey became a cancer survivor, willing 
to stand up for cancer patients and those unware of the dangers that 
tanning beds can cause to the human body. Stacey also remains 
incredibly active, a hard-working single mom who is still dedicated to 
living a healthy lifestyle. Despite time away from her career, Stacey 
worked through the setbacks and is now a publicist at Orca 
Communications and continues to have an exciting career in public 
relations.
  Stacey's battle with cancer and getting to where she is today is a 
testament to her determination. She has a passionate story to tell, and 
I believe that she will continue to inspire others to do the same. She 
epitomizes what it means to fight back and go even further by spreading 
the word about the dangers posed by tanning beds and advocate for other 
women's health issues. I am truly inspired by her story.
  I am both humbled and honored to acknowledge Stacey Escalante for her 
perseverance and willingness to share her story and get involved to 
make the great State of Nevada an even stronger, healthier State. I 
wish her continued efforts the absolute best. I will continue to pray 
for her as well as her wonderful family and friends who stood by her 
side every step of the way.

                          ____________________



