

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1128]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO KEVIN CONCANNON

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and congratulate 
Kevin Concannon on his retirement and distinguished career. The fact 
that Kevin Concannon retired is not news--he has done that several 
times before, and each time, he moved onto more exciting and 
challenging positions.
  In 2016 Kevin Concannon retired from the USDA as the Undersecretary 
of Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services after 8 years of service.
  Kevin is a tireless advocate of people--all people. His work to 
assure that every effort was made to address hunger in this country is 
an indicator of his compassion, understanding of both the issues and 
solutions, and his unwavering faith in the ability of this great 
country to care for those who are struggling--whether it is food 
insecurity or earlier in his career on mental health issues, long-term 
care, and child welfare.
  At USDA, Kevin worked tirelessly to increase options for SNAP 
beneficiaries to access fresh local foods at Farmers Markets; he was 
determined that children should have more access to nutritious foods in 
WIC, schools, and childcare. While Kevin and I agree on that goal, I 
must add that, as a native Mainer, Kevin may have missed the mark on 
where white potatoes fit into those meal plans.
  Kevin Concannon came to USDA with an amazingly broad spectrum of 
experience. From 1987 to 1995, he served as the director of Oregon 
Department of Human Resources; after having served commissioner of 
Maine Department of Mental Health and Corrections. In 1995, I was 
fortunate to be able to bring him back to his home State of Maine to 
serve as the commissioner of Maine's Deparment of Human Services. At 
the time, I commented that he was the Dan Marino of commissioners and 
welcomed him back. I would point out that Dan Marino is now serving as 
the VP of the Dolphins, and I expect that, in the same way, Kevin 
Concannon will find ways to continue his public service--and that will 
benefit us all.
  Kevin led efforts throughout his career to improve child welfare, 
expand Medicaid and child health insurance, integrate programs of 
public health and medical care, and improve systems for long-term care 
for elders and people with disabilities. Many of those efforts were 
national in scope, and he was selected by his peers to serve as the 
president of the American Public Welfare Association from 1994 to 1995.
  In every role, in every effort, Kevin Concannon has been an exemplary 
public servant and leader.
  Margaret Chase Smith said it best: ``Public service must be more than 
doing a job efficiently and honestly. It must be a complete dedication 
to the people and to the nation.'' Kevin Concannon is the 
personification of total dedication, honesty, and determination to make 
the world a better place; that has been the hallmark of his work each 
and every day.
  Congratulations and best wishes to Kevin Concannon, and welcome home.

                          ____________________



