

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S358]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        REMEMBERING KEN HECHLER

  Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor KenHechler, a 
former Presidential adviser, veteran, public servant, author, 
Congressman, West Virginia's 26th Secretary of State,and educator who 
left a significant imprint on my home State of West Virginia.
  Ken was born on September 20, 1914, inRoslyn, NY. Always a staunch 
advocate for engaging the public in politics, he helped organize 
support for President Franklin D.Roosevelt's New Deal while attending 
Swarthmore College. He later earned a master's degree and Ph.D. in 
political science, bothfrom Columbia University.
  Shortly after the United States entered World War II, Ken was drafted 
into the Army where hetrained as an infantryman and a tank commander. 
Eventually he was assigned as an Army combat historian and rose to the 
rank ofcolonel. He was one of five people assigned to interview leaders 
of Nazi Germany after the war.
  His experience as a warhistorian led to his joining the Truman 
administration as an adviser on local issues during his tours across 
the Nation. Heremained on Truman's administration throughout the 
remainder of his tenure and briefly into the administration of Dwight 
D.Eisenhower.
  He was the author of ``The Bridge at Remagen,'' which detailed the 
Army's crossing of the Rhine River duringWorld War II. This publication 
helped make him a household name.
  Ken later joined the American Political ScienceAssociation, with one 
of his jobs requiring him to find political science professors for 
colleges. His legacy in West Virginiabegan in 1957 when he got a 
request to teach political science at Marshall College, now Marshall 
University. Following one termat Marshall, he ran for Congress and won. 
He served nine terms in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1957 to 
1977.
  Hesaw West Virginia for the welcoming place it is. Once you have 
visited our little State, it never really leaves you. Mostimportantly, 
Ken recognized quickly the issues that matter in West Virginia--mostly 
concerning the coal industry and protectionof our miners. In the wake 
of the explosion at the Consol No. 9 mine in my hometown of Farmington, 
Ken played a key role in thepromotion of the Coal Mine Health and 
Safety Act of 1969. I personally lost many individuals who I knew well, 
including my dearUncle John and several classmates, in that explosion. 
The implementation of the Coal Mine Health and Safety Act set 
thegroundwork for everything we have accomplished for our miners since 
then. I will always be grateful for Ken's contributions.
  Among his many history-making legacies, Ken joined the march to Selma 
with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., in 1965. Hewas the only 
active Member of Congress to participate.
  After a successful tenure in Congress, Ken served as West 
Virginia'sSecretary of State. He moved his desk out front so he could 
interact with visitors passing through. He loved to visit with allWest 
Virginians. He fought for transparency in our campaign finance system, 
was passionate about protecting our democraticprocess, and fought to 
ensure that West Virginians had access to cast their ballots.
  Ken never gave up his commitment topublic service and continued to be 
active on the issues that matter to the public. At the age of 85, he 
walked 530 miles withGranny D to show his unwavering commitment to 
campaign finance reform, shortly after the McCain-Feingold Act passed 
Congress.Put simply, Ken was never one to back down from a challenge. 
The man was fearless and fought tirelessly for causes he believedin.
  What is most important is that he lived a full life, surrounded by 
dear friends and family. It is my hope that Ken'sloved ones are able to 
find peace, strength, and support in one another. This is a time to 
celebrate his life and vastaccomplishments, as well as the countless 
lives he touched, and to honor his memory in our thoughts and prayers.
  Again, Iextend my most sincere condolences to his loving wife, Carol, 
and the entire Hechler family and dear friends. I am honored tojoin the 
people of West Virginia and beyond in recognizing his memory, as well 
as the unwavering love he had for his loved onesand our great Nation. 
His legacy of service will live on forever.

                          ____________________



