

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1806]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 34

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 34, a bill to amend chapter 
8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide for the en bloc 
consideration in resolutions of disapproval for ``midnight rules'', and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 205

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 205, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to repeal the estate and generation-skipping transfer taxes, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 206

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 206, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to allow the Secretary of Education to 
award job training Federal Pell Grants.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 300

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 300, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to require that return information from tax-exempt 
organizations be made available in a searchable format and to provide 
the disclosure of the identity of contributors to certain tax-exempt 
organizations.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care 
services for veterans.


                                 S. 393

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 393, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow employers a credit against 
income tax for employees who participate in qualified apprenticeship 
programs.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 422, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, 
to clarify presumptions relating to the exposure of certain veterans 
who served in the vicinity of the Republic of Vietnam, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to amend 
titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States to 
provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 438

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 438, a bill to encourage 
effective, voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and 
women who have served in the United States military with annual Federal 
awards to employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under 
Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 486, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the non-
application of Medicare competitive acquisition rates to complex 
rehabilitative wheelchairs and accessories.


                                 S. 517

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 517, a bill to amend the 
Clean Air Act with respect to the ethanol waiver for Reid vapor 
pressure limitations under such Act.


                                 S. 544

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from 
Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as cosponsors of S. 544, a bill to amend 
Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the 
termination date for the Veterans Choice Program, and for other 
purposes.
  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 544, supra.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator 
from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Murphy) were added as cosponsors of S. 568, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of outpatient 
observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-day 
inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing facility 
services under Medicare.


                              S.J. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 6, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relative to equal rights for men and women.


                              S.J. RES. 28

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 28, a joint resolution providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States 
Code, of the rule submitted by the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency relating to accidental release prevention 
requirements of risk management programs under the Clean Air Act.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 7, a concurrent resolution 
expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt fraternal benefit 
societies have historically provided and continue to provide critical 
benefits to the people and communities of the United States.

                          ____________________



