

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2596-H2599]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Royce of California, Ms. Adams, Ms. Bass, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Bera, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. 
             Castro of Texas, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Crist, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Dent, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Engel, Mr. Foster, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Mr. Heck, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Kildee, Mr. King 
             of New York, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Ms. Lee, Mr. Levin, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Lynch, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Meng, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Sherman, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, 
             Mr. Welch, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Polis, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Mr. Evans, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Mr. Trott, Mr. Lance, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Katko, Mr. Valadao, Mrs. Mimi 
             Walters of California, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Paulsen, Ms. 
             Herrera Beutler, Mrs. Love, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Bacon, and 
             Mr. Bergman):
       H.R. 19. A bill to establish in the Smithsonian Institution 
     a comprehensive women's history museum, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Natural Resources, and 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
       H.R. 1800. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     transfer certain Federal land to facilitate scientific 
     research supporting Federal space and defense programs; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 1801. A bill to delay the effective date of the final 
     rule of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection titled 
     ``Prepaid Accounts under the Electronic Fund Transfer Act 
     (Regulation E) and the Truth In Lending Act (Regulation Z)``; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. ESTY (for herself, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, and Mrs. Radewagen):
       H.R. 1802. A bill to expand eligibility for the program of 
     comprehensive assistance for family caregivers of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. DUNN:
       H.R. 1803. A bill to establish the Constitutional 
     Government Review Commission, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BARR:
       H.R. 1804. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a 3-year recovery period for all race horses; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.

[[Page H2597]]

  

           By Mr. BARR:
       H.R. 1805. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reduce the holding period used to determine whether 
     horses are section 1231 assets to 12 months; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BARR:
       H.R. 1806. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow the expensing of race horses; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Sam 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Babin, 
             and Mr. Johnson of Louisiana):
       H.R. 1807. A bill to exempt from the Lacey Act and the 
     Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 certain water transfers between 
     any of the States of Texas, Arkansas, and Louisiana; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 1808. A bill to amend and improve the Missing 
     Children's Assistance Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Minnesota (for himself, Ms. Foxx, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, and Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H.R. 1809. A bill to reauthorize and improve the Juvenile 
     Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1810. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow deductions and credits relating to expenditures 
     in connection with marijuana sales conducted in compliance 
     with State law; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself and Mr. Correa):
       H.R. 1811. A bill to amend the American Recovery and 
     Reinvestment Act of 2009 to prohibit the use of funds 
     appropriated to the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     procurement of uniforms not manufactured in the United 
     States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Matsui, 
             Mr. Crist, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Lipinski, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. McNerney, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Peters, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Clay, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Price of North Carolina, 
             Mr. Hastings, and Mr. Cartwright):
       H.R. 1812. A bill to provide that the Executive Order 
     entitled ``Promoting Energy Independence and Economic 
     Growth`` (March 28, 2017), shall have no force or effect, to 
     prohibit the use of Federal funds to enforce the Executive 
     Order, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, the Judiciary, and Natural Resources, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for himself, Mr. Barletta, 
             Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Culberson, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, and Mr. Crawford):
       H.R. 1813. A bill to amend the Electronic Fund Transfer Act 
     to impose a fee for remittance transfers to certain foreign 
     countries, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself and Mr. Loebsack):
       H.R. 1814. A bill to encourage spectrum licensees to make 
     unused spectrum available for use by rural and smaller 
     carriers in order to expand wireless coverage; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Serrano, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Moore, Mr. Correa, Mr. Evans, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Gallego, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Welch, Mr. Perlmutter, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 1815. A bill to amend section 287 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act to limit immigration enforcement actions 
     at sensitive locations, to clarify the powers of immigration 
     officers at sensitive locations, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Mr. Garamendi, and Mr. Hunter):
       H.R. 1816. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Navy to 
     enter into a contract for the procurement of heavy 
     icebreakers; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1817. A bill to prohibit the use of the poisons sodium 
     fluoroacetate (known as ``Compound 1080'') and sodium cyanide 
     for predator control; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DENHAM (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Gaetz, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Ross, and 
             Mr. Johnson of Ohio):
       H.R. 1818. A bill to amend the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 
     to clarify provisions enacted by the Captive Wildlife Safety 
     Act, to further the conservation of certain wildlife species, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Mr. Connolly, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Ellison, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Quigley, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, and Mr. Lowenthal):
       H.R. 1819. A bill to protect taxpayers from liability 
     associated with the reclamation of surface coal mining 
     operations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mr. Garrett, Mr. Polis, 
             Mr. Amash, Ms. Titus, and Mr. Rohrabacher):
       H.R. 1820. A bill to authorize Department of Veterans 
     Affairs health care providers to provide recommendations and 
     opinions to veterans regarding participation in State 
     marijuana programs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BARTON (for himself and Mr. Lewis of Georgia):
       H.R. 1821. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the standard charitable mileage rate for 
     delivery of meals to elderly, disabled, frail, and at risk 
     individuals; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 1822. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     limit the liability of health care professionals who 
     volunteer to provide health care services in response to a 
     disaster; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
       H.R. 1823. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the taxation and regulation of marijuana 
     products, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
       H.R. 1824. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     reduce the gap between Federal and State marijuana policy, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, 
     Ways and Means, Financial Services, Natural Resources, 
     Education and the Workforce, Veterans' Affairs, and Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Kind, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 1825. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to ensure more timely access to home health 
     services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY:
       H.R. 1826. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to redistribute Federal funds that would otherwise be 
     made available to States that do not provide for the Medicaid 
     expansion in accordance with the Affordable Care Act to those 
     States electing to provide those Medicaid benefits, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Jones, Ms. Pingree, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Moore, Mr. Ben Ray 
             Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Raskin, Mr. DeFazio, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Norton, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Pocan, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, and Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana):

[[Page H2598]]

  

       H.R. 1827. A bill to amend the Family and Medical Leave Act 
     of 1993 to provide a partial exemption to veterans from the 
     eligibility requirements, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, and House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 1828. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for payments for certain rural health 
     clinic and Federally qualified health center services 
     furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr. Russell):
       H.R. 1829. A bill to temporarily authorize recently retired 
     members of the armed forces to be appointed to certain civil 
     service positions, require the Secretary of Defense to issue 
     certain notifications, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 1830. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide that a deduction equal to fair market value 
     shall be allowed for charitable contributions of literary, 
     musical, artistic, or scholarly compositions created by the 
     donor; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, and Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester):
       H.R. 1831. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to permit hospitals in all-urban States to be 
     considered Medicare dependent hospitals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Lynch, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Adams, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Blumenauer, and Ms. Tsongas):
       H.R. 1832. A bill to authorize the appropriation of funds 
     to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for 
     conducting or supporting research on firearms safety or gun 
     violence prevention; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Norton, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Evans, and Ms. Adams):
       H.R. 1833. A bill to encourage initiatives for financial 
     products and services that are appropriate and accessible for 
     millions of American small businesses that do not have access 
     to the financial mainstream; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself and Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama):
       H.R. 1834. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to establish a national Oncology Medical Home 
     Demonstration Project under the Medicare program for the 
     purpose of changing the Medicare payment for cancer care in 
     order to enhance the quality of care and to improve cost 
     efficiency, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
       H.R. 1835. A bill to prohibit United States voluntary and 
     assessed contributions to the United Nations if the United 
     Nations imposes any tax or fee on any United States person or 
     continues to develop or promote proposals for such a tax or 
     fee; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Issa, Mr. Deutch, and Mr. Thomas J. 
             Rooney of Florida):
       H.R. 1836. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     provide fair treatment of radio stations and artists for the 
     use of sound recordings, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 1837. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish a pilot competitive grant program for the 
     development of a skilled energy workforce, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. NUNES (for himself, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Stewart, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Smith 
             of Washington, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             Veasey, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. 
             Norcross, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Hensarling, 
             Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Lance, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Jenkins 
             of Kansas, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Farenthold, and Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas):
       H.R. 1838. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to modernize payments for ambulatory surgical 
     centers under the Medicare program, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE:
       H.R. 1839. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     clarify the timing of deposits relating to the Civil Service 
     Retirement System with respect to crediting military service, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             Rush, and Mr. Shimkus):
       H.R. 1840. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a credit against tax for clinical testing 
     expenses for qualified infectious disease drugs and rapid 
     diagnostic tests; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. POLIS:
       H.R. 1841. A bill to provide for the regulation of 
     marijuana products, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Energy 
     and Commerce, Ways and Means, Natural Resources, and 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE:
       H.R. 1842. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     include State crimes of violence as grounds for an enhanced 
     penalty when sex offenders fail to register or report certain 
     information as required by Federal law, to include prior 
     military offenses for purposes of recidivist sentencing 
     provisions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Holding, 
             Mr. Reed, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Meehan, Mr. 
             Renacci, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Rice of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Collins of Georgia, and Mr. Harris):
       H.R. 1843. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the Internal Revenue Service from carrying out 
     seizures relating to a structuring transaction unless the 
     property to be seized derived from an illegal source or the 
     funds were structured for the purpose of concealing the 
     violation of another criminal law or regulation, to require 
     notice and a post-seizure hearing for such seizures, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 1844. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to use existing authorities to furnish health care at 
     non-Department of Veterans Affairs facilities to veterans who 
     live more than 40 miles driving distance from the closest 
     medical facility of the Department that furnishes the care 
     sought by the veteran; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SMUCKER:
       H.R. 1845. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to facilitate the transition to Medicare for 
     individuals enrolled in group health plans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself and Mr. Smith of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 1846. A bill to reauthorize the National Internet 
     Crimes Against Children Task Force Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Schrader, Mr. Marino, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Collins of 
             New York, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Adams, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             Amodei, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Barletta, Ms. Bass, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Bera, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Brat, Mr. Buchanan, 
             Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Calvert, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Coffman, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Cook, Mr. Correa, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Delaney, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. Demings, Mr. 
             Denham, Mr. Dent, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Donovan, Mr. 
             Michael F. Doyle of

[[Page H2599]]

             Pennsylvania, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Esty, Mr. Faso, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Foster, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Heck, Ms. 
             Herrera Beutler, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Himes, 
             Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Johnson of Ohio, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Jones, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Keating, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Kihuen, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. King of New York, 
             Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Lance, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Lee, Mr. Levin, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Lynch, Mr. MacArthur, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Marshall, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Beyer, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. McHenry, Mr. McNerney, Ms. McSally, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. Moore, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Neal, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. O'Rourke, 
             Mr. Pallone, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Perry, Mr. Peters, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Mr. Panetta, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Roskam, 
             Mr. Ross, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Royce of California, 
             Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. 
             LaHood, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Schweikert, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Sherman, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. Sires, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Smith 
             of New Jersey, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Tenney, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Turner, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Vela, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Walker, Mr. Walz, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Welch, Mr. Williams, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Young of Iowa, 
             Mr. Young of Alaska, and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 1847. A bill to amend the Horse Protection Act to 
     designate additional unlawful acts under the Act, strengthen 
     penalties for violations of the Act, improve Department of 
     Agriculture enforcement of the Act, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H. Res. 234. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the importance of effective 
     education in civics and government in elementary and 
     secondary schools throughout the Nation; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
       H. Res. 235. A resolution directing the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security to transmit certain documents to the House 
     of Representatives relating to the Department of Homeland 
     Security's research, integration, and analysis activities 
     relating to Russian Government interference in the elections 
     for Federal office held in 2016; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Tiberi, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Bost, 
             Mr. Gibbs, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Marshall, Mr. 
             Paulsen, Mr. Sensenbrenner, and Mrs. Wagner):
       H. Res. 236. A resolution recognizing the importance of the 
     United States-Japan partnership and supporting the pursuit of 
     closer trade ties between the United States and Japan; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Correa, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Soto, Mr. Takano, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Gonzalez 
             of Texas, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Vela, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. Moore, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Doggett, Ms. Sanchez, 
             Mr. Sires, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Sablan, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Titus, Ms. Speier, and Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas):
       H. Res. 237. A resolution honoring the accomplishments and 
     legacy of Cesar Estrada Chavez; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTER of Texas (for himself, Mr. Ruppersberger, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Williams, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Jordan, Mr. 
             Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, and Mr. Marshall):
       H. Res. 238. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the Secretary of the Army should 
     report on the status of future Ground Combat Vehicles of the 
     Army; to the Committee on Armed Services.

                          ____________________



