

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H607-H608]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SCALISE (for himself, Mrs. Blackburn, and Mr. 
             Walden):
       H.R. 599. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     consolidate the reporting obligations of the Federal 
     Communications Commission in order to improve congressional 
     oversight and reduce reporting burdens; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce. considered and passed. considered and 
     passed.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, Mr. Engel, and Ms. Meng):
       H.R. 600. A bill to promote Internet access in developing 
     countries and update foreign policy toward the Internet, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself and Mr. Reichert):
       H.R. 601. A bill to enhance the transparency and accelerate 
     the impact of assistance provided under the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in 
     developing countries, to better enable such countries to 
     achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
     improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and 
     waste, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. CALVERT:
       H.R. 602. A bill to direct the United States Postal Service 
     to designate a single, unique ZIP Code for Eastvale, 
     California; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CALVERT (for himself, Mr. Royce of California, 
             and Mr. Emmer):
       H.R. 603. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     increase the maximum penalty for mail theft; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Allen, 
             and Mr. Olson):
       H.R. 604. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to permit the Governor of a State to reject the 
     resettlement of a refugee in that State unless there is 
     adequate assurance that the alien does not present a security 
     risk and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
       H.R. 605. A bill to facilitate nationwide availability of 
     volunteer income tax assistance for low-income and 
     underserved populations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself, Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Bass, 
             Mr. Becerra, Mr. Bera, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cook, 
             Mr. Costa, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Denham, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Knight, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Matsui, Mr. McNerney, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Peters, Mr. Rohrabacher,

[[Page H608]]

             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Schiff, Ms. Speier, 
             Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson 
             of California, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Vargas, and Mrs. Mimi 
             Walters of California):
       H.R. 606. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1025 Nevin Avenue in 
     Richmond, California, as the ``Harold D. McCraw, Sr. Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 607. A bill to prohibit election officials from 
     requiring individuals to provide photo identification as a 
     condition of obtaining or casting a ballot in an election for 
     Federal office or registering to vote in elections for 
     Federal office, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Ms. GABBARD (for herself, Mr. Welch, Mr. Massie, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Jones, Mr. Garrett, and Mr. Yoho):
       H.R. 608. A bill to prohibit the use of United States 
     Government funds to provide assistance to Al Qaeda, Jabhat 
     Fateh al-Sham, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
     (ISIL) and to countries supporting those organizations, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select), for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Evans, Mr. Perry, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Marino, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Dent, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Cartwright, and Mr. Murphy 
             of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 609. A bill to designate the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs health care center in Center Township, Butler County, 
     Pennsylvania, as the ``Abie Abraham VA Clinic''; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Harris, and Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 610. A bill to distribute Federal funds for elementary 
     and secondary education in the form of vouchers for eligible 
     students and to repeal a certain rule relating to nutrition 
     standards in schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. LAMBORN:
       H.R. 611. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the removal or demotion of employees of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs based on performance or 
     misconduct, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself and Mr. Ratcliffe):
       H.R. 612. A bill to establish a grant program at the 
     Department of Homeland Security to promote cooperative 
     research and development between the United States and Israel 
     on cybersecurity; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Marino, Mr. Nolan, 
             and Mr. Emmer):
       H.R. 613. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     require that the Director of the Bureau of Prisons ensure 
     that each chief executive officer of a Federal penal or 
     correctional institution provides a secure storage area 
     located outside of the secure perimeter of the Federal penal 
     or correctional institution for firearms carried by certain 
     employees of the Bureau of Prisons, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Barletta, 
             and Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 614. A bill to require each owner of a dwelling unit 
     assisted under the section 8 rental assistance voucher 
     program to remain current with respect to local property and 
     school taxes and to authorize a public housing agency to use 
     such rental assistance amounts to pay such tax debt of such 
     an owner, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H.R. 615. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to include student loan repayers as members of targeted 
     groups for purposes of the work opportunity credit and to 
     provide for a credit against tax for student loan program 
     startup costs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.J. Res. 30. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to provide that 
     Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States 
     according to their respective numbers, counting the number of 
     persons in each State who are citizens of the United States; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and Mr. Sherman):
       H. Con. Res. 11. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel and 
     therefore, consistent with the location of other United 
     States embassies, the United States embassy in Israel should 
     be located in Jerusalem; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SIRES (for himself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Engel, and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen):
       H. Res. 54. A resolution reaffirming the United States-
     Argentina partnership and recognizing Argentina's economic 
     reforms; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



