

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 33 (Friday, February 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 33 (Friday, February 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1321]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BARLETTA:
       H.R. 1214. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency to conduct a program to 
     use simplified procedures to issue public assistance for 
     certain projects under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
     and Emergency Assistance Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 1215. A bill to improve patient access to health care 
     services and provide improved medical care by reducing the 
     excessive burden the liability system places on the health 
     care delivery system; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER (for himself, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mrs. 
             Walorski, Mr. Bucshon, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Barletta, Mr. DeSantis, 
             and Mr. LaMalfa):
       H.R. 1216. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide veterans affected by school closures certain relief 
     and restoration of educational benefits, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 1217. A bill to direct the Librarian of Congress to 
     obtain a stained glass panel depicting the seal of the 
     District of Columbia and install the panel among the stained 
     glass panels depicting the seals of States which overlook the 
     Main Reading Room of the Library of Congress Thomas Jefferson 
     Building; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG:
       H.R. 1218. A bill to amend titles II and XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act to establish a Social Security Surplus 
     Protection Account in the Federal Old-Age and Survivors 
     Insurance Trust Fund to hold the Social Security surplus and 
     a Medicare Surplus Protection Account in the Federal Hospital 
     Insurance Trust Fund to hold the Medicare surplus, to provide 
     for suspension of investment of amounts held in such Accounts 
     until enactment of legislation providing for investment of 
     the Trust Funds in investment vehicles other than obligations 
     of the United States, and to establish a Social Security and 
     Medicare Part A Investment Commission to make recommendations 
     for alternative forms of investment of the Social Security 
     and Medicare surpluses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.

                          ____________________



