

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1890-S1891]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mrs. Murray, 
             and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 669. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to assess sanitation and safety conditions at Bureau of 
     Indian Affairs facilities that were constructed to provide 
     affected Columbia River Treaty tribes access to traditional 
     fishing grounds and expend funds on construction of 
     facilities and structures to improve those conditions, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Grassley, Ms. Hassan, 
             and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 670. A bill to provide for the regulation of over-the-
     counter hearing aids; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mrs. Ernst):
       S. 671. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exclude from gross income certain amounts realized on the 
     disposition of property raised or produced by a student 
     farmer, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Heller, Ms. 
             Murkowski, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Gardner, and 
             Mr. Inhofe):
       S. 672. A bill to require a report on designation of North 
     Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Mr. Markey, Mr. Kaine, Mrs. Gillibrand, and 
             Ms. Warren):
       S. 673. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to decrease the distance away from home required for a member 
     of a reserve component of the Armed Forces to be eligible for 
     the above-the-line deduction for travel expenses; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Crapo, and Mr. 
             Roberts):
       S. 674. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to clarify the retirement income account rules relating to 
     church controlled organizations; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Mr. Murphy):
       S. 675. A bill to amend and reauthorize certain provisions 
     relating to Long Island Sound restoration and stewardship; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. ROUNDS:
       S. 676. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     require the Administrator of the Office of Information and 
     Regulatory Affairs to review regulations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Flake, Mr. McCain, 
             Mr. Heller, Mr. Enzi, and Mr. Risch):
       S. 677. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to coordinate Federal and State permitting processes related 
     to the construction of new surface water storage projects on 
     lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior 
     and the Secretary of Agriculture and to designate the Bureau 
     of Reclamation as the lead agency for permit processing, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Cotton, 
             and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 678. A bill to delcare English as the official language 
     of the United States, to establish a uniform English language 
     rule for naturalization, and to avoid misconstructions of the 
     English language texts of the laws of the United States, 
     pursuant to Congress' powers to provide for the general 
     welfare of the United States and to establish a uniform rule 
     of naturalization under article I, section 8, of the 
     Constitution; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 679. A bill to require the disclosure of information 
     relating to cyberattacks on aircraft systems and maintenance 
     and ground support systems for aircraft, to identify and 
     address cybersecurity vulnerabilities to the United States 
     commercial aviation system, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 680. A bill to protect consumers from security and 
     privacy threats to their motor vehicles, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Kaine, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. Murray, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Nelson, Ms. Hassan, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 681. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the benefits and services provided by the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms. Collins, Mr. King, and 
             Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 682. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of the Treasury to provide for the 
     purchase of paper United States savings bonds with tax 
     refunds; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. Collins, and Mr. King):
       S. 683. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend the requirement to provide nursing home care to 
     certain veterans with service-connected disabilities; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Lankford):
       S. 684. A bill to establish a national, research-based, and 
     comprehensive home study assessment process for the 
     evaluation of prospective foster parents and adoptive parents 
     and provide funding to States and Indian tribes to adopt such 
     process; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 685. A bill to authorize the Dry-Redwater Regional Water 
     Authority System and the Musselshell-Judith Rural Water 
     System in the States of Montana and North Dakota, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 686. A bill to amend the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 
     1995 to provide for regulatory impact analyses for certain 
     rules and consideration of the least burdensome regulatory 
     alternative, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Franken, and Mr. 
             Casey):
       S. 687. A bill to amend the Trade Act of 1974 to authorize 
     a State to reimburse certain costs incurred by the State in 
     providing training to workers after a petition for 
     certification of eligibility for trade adjustment assistance 
     has been filed, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 688. A bill to suspend the importation of beef and 
     poultry from Brazil; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Ms. 
             Baldwin):
       S. 689. A bill to provide women with increased access to 
     preventive and life-saving cancer screening; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

[[Page S1891]]

  

           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Risch, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 690. A bill to extend the eligibility of redesignated 
     areas as HUBZones from 3 years to 7 years; to the Committee 
     on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 691. A bill to extend Federal recognition to the 
     Chickahominy Indian Tribe, the Chickahominy Indian Tribe-
     Eastern Division, the Upper Mattaponi Tribe, the Rappahannock 
     Tribe, Inc., the Monacan Indian Nation, and the Nansemond 
     Indian Tribe; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cardin, 
             Mr. Boozman, Mr. Portman, Mr. Blunt, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 692. A bill to provide for integrated plan permits, to 
     establish an Office of the Municipal Ombudsman, to promote 
     green infrastructure, and to require the revision of 
     financial capability guidance; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.

                          ____________________



