

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H542-H546]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLSAND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, asfollows:

           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Mrs. Black, Ms.Foxx, Mrs. Wagner, Mrs. Blackburn,

[[Page H543]]

             Mrs. Noem, Ms. Cheney, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr.Aderholt, 
             Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. 
             Huizenga, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Kellyof Mississippi, 
             Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Gibbs,Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Duffy, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, Mr.Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Mullin, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, 
             Mr.Olson, Mr. Latta, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. LaHood, Mr.Wenstrup, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Flores, Mr. Scalise, Mr. 
             Emmer, Mr. Yoder, Mr.Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Babin, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Massie, and Mr. Amash):
       H.R. 7. A bill to prohibit taxpayer funded abortions; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition tothe 
     Committees on Ways and Means, and the Judiciary, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     forconsideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr.CALVERT (for himself, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             Rohrabacher, Mr. LaMalfa, and Mr. Cook):
       H.R. 514. A bill to deny Federal funding to any State or 
     political subdivision of a State that hasin effect any law, 
     policy, or procedure that prevents or impedes a State or 
     local law enforcement official from maintainingcustody of an 
     alien pursuant to an immigration detainer issued by the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, and for other purposes; tothe 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ELLISON:
       H.R. 515. A billto authorize the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to provide grants and loans to owners of 
     dated manufactured homesfor the replacement of such dated 
     manufactured homes with Energy Star-qualified manufactured or 
     modular homes, and for otherpurposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. ELLISON:
       H.R. 516. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to reduce the mortgage interest deduction relating 
     toacquisition indebtedness for certain taxpayers; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr.ELLISON:
       H.R. 517. A bill to amend the Real Estate Settlement 
     Procedures Act of 1974 toprohibit certain financial benefits 
     for referrals of business and to improve the judicial relief 
     for certain violations, and forother purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself, Mr.Guthrie, Ms. Matsui, 
             and Mr. Dent):
       H.R. 518. A bill to amend the Energy Policyand Conservation 
     Act to exclude power supply circuits, drivers, and devices 
     designed to be connected to, and power, light-emitting diodes 
     or organic light-emitting diodes providing illumination from 
     energy conservation standards for external powersupplies, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BUCK (forhimself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Tipton, Mrs. 
             Love, and Mr. Bishop of Utah):
       H.R.519. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to facilitate water leasing and water transfers to promote 
     conservationand efficiency; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. AMODEI:
       H.R. 520. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     and the Secretary of Agriculture to more efficiently 
     developdomestic sources of the minerals and mineral materials 
     of strategic and critical importance to the economic and 
     nationalsecurity and manufacturing competitiveness of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. AMODEI (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. McClintock, 
             Mr. Pittenger, Mr.Franks of Arizona, and Mr. 
             Huizenga):
       H.R. 521. A bill to amend the Internal RevenueCode of 1986 
     to provide an exemption to the individual mandate to maintain 
     health coverage for individuals residing in countieswith 
     fewer than 2 health insurance issuers offering plans on an 
     Exchange; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr.Chabot, Mr. 
             Issa, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Jordan, Mr.Poe of Texas, Mr. Chaffetz, 
             Mr. Marino, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr.Collins of Georgia, Mr. DeSantis, Mrs. Mimi 
             Walters of California, Mr. Buck, Mr. Ratcliffe, 
             Mr.Trott, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mrs. Roby, Mr. 
             Gaetz, Mr. Biggs, and Mr. Johnson ofLouisiana):
       H.R. 522. A bill to limit donations made pursuant to 
     settlement agreements to whichthe United States is a party, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr.MARCHANT:
       H.R. 523. A bill to provide further means of accountability 
     of the United Statesdebt and promote fiscal responsibility; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LAMBORN (forhimself, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 524. Abill to prohibit any person from soliciting or 
     knowingly acquiring, receiving, or accepting a donation of 
     human fetal tissue forany purpose other than disposal of the 
     tissue if the donation affects interstate commerce and the 
     tissue will be or is obtainedpursuant to an induced abortion, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           ByMr. CRAWFORD (for himself, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Abraham, 
             Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Comer, Ms. Lee,Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Thompson 
             of Mississippi, Mr. Moulton, Mr.Emmer, Ms. McCollum, 
             Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Harper, Mr. Westerman, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr.Marshall, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska,Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Beyer, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 525. A bill to modify the prohibition on United States 
     assistance and financing for certainexports to Cuba under the 
     Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee onForeign Affairs, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Financial Services, and 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequentlydetermined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committeeconcerned.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Donovan, Mr. 
             Vela, Mr.Keating, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Payne, Ms. McSally, 
             and Mr. Ratcliffe):
       H.R. 526. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish in the Department of Homeland Security a boardto 
     coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence, 
     activities, and policy related to counterterrorism, and for 
     otherpurposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself, Mr.Simpson, Mr. 
             Amodei, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Stewart, Mrs. Love, Mr. 
             Labrador, Mr. Chaffetz,Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. 
             Tipton, and Ms. Cheney):
       H.R. 527. A bill to providefor the conservation and 
     preservation of the Greater Sage Grouse by facilitating State 
     recovery plans, and for other purposes;to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr.Jones, and Mr. Nolan):
       H.R. 528. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act 
     of1971 to prohibit individuals holding Federal office from 
     directly soliciting contributions to or on behalf of any 
     politicalcommittee under such Act, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms.JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 529. A bill to amend the InternalRevenue Code of 1986 
     to make improvements in the rules related to qualified 
     tuition programs and qualified ABLE programs; to theCommittee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Soto, 
             Mr.Keating, Mr. Sires, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida, Ms. Norton, Mr. Ted Lieuof 
             California, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Cicilline, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mrs. Lawrence,Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Espaillat, Mr.Sherman, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Ms. Titus, Mr.Bera, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Welch, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Schneider, 
             Mr. Crowley,Ms. Meng, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Plaskett, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grishamof 
             New Mexico, Mr. Clay, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Rush, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms.Gabbard, Mrs. 
             Torres, Ms. Pingree, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, Mr. Courtney, Ms.Bass, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Nadler, 
             Mr. Crist, Ms. Esty, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr.Lynch, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Schiff, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Bonamici,Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
             Quigley, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 530. A bill to expose and deter unlawful and 
     subversive foreign interference in elections forFederal 
     office, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary,and Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of suchprovisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HILL (for himselfand Mr. Schweikert):
       H.R. 531. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to make anexception to the 100 shareholder S corporation 
     limitation in the case of shareholders whose shares were 
     acquired through certaincrowd-funding or small public 
     offerings; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE(for himself, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Correa, 
             Mr.Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Takano, Mr. Brown 
             of Maryland, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Deutch,Mr. Polis, Ms. 
             Meng, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms.Hanabusa, Mr. Kihuen,

[[Page H544]]

             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Tonko, 
             Mrs. Torres,Mr. Vargas, Ms. Titus, and Ms. 
             Slaughter):
       H.R. 532. A bill to provide for theprotection of 
     information submitted to the Department of Homeland Security 
     pursuant to the Deferred Action for ChildhoodArrivals 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. EMMER (forhimself and Mrs. Love):
       H.R. 533. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to lowerthe corporate rate of income tax to the OECD average, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Ellison, 
             Mr. Nolan, Mr.Peterson, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Lewis of 
             Minnesota, Mr. Walz, and Mr. Weber of Texas):
       H.R. 534. A bill to require the Secretary of State to take 
     such actions as may be necessary for the United Statesto 
     rejoin the Bureau of International Expositions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Mr. Royce of California, 
             and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 535. A bill to encourage visits between the United 
     States and Taiwan at all levels, and for other purposes; to 
     theCommittee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BIGGS:
       H.R. 536. A bill toprovide that the salaries of Members of 
     a House of Congress will be held in escrow if that House has 
     not agreed to a concurrentresolution on the budget for fiscal 
     year 2018 by April 15, 2017 and to withhold the salary of the 
     Director of OMB upon failureto submit the President's budget 
     to Congress as required by section 1105 of title 31, United 
     States Code; to the Committee onHouse Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committees on the Budget, and Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to besubsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of thecommittee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS:
       H.R. 537. A bill to amend theInternal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide an exemption to the individual mandate to maintain 
     health coverage for individualsresiding in counties with 
     fewer than 2 health insurance issuers offering plans on an 
     Exchange; to require members of Congressand congressional 
     staff to abide by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
     Act with respect to health insurance coverage;and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, 
     HouseAdministration, and Oversight and Government Reform, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case forconsideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr.BISHOP of Georgia (for himself and Mr. Austin 
             Scott of Georgia):
       H.R. 538. A bill toredesignate Ocmulgee National Monument 
     in the State of Georgia and revise its boundary, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committeeon Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 539. A bill to amend title IX of the Public Health 
     Service Act to revise the operations of the United 
     StatesPreventive Services Task Force, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     theCommittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of suchprovisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (forhimself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Beyer, 
             Ms. Titus, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. DeFazio, 
             Mr.Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Kaptur, Mr.Nadler, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Ellison, Mr.Meeks, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Cohen, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 540. A bill to require the disclosure of the Federal 
     income tax returns of the President; to the Committee 
     onOversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determinedby the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself, Mr. Mullin, 
             Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Bucshon,and Mr. Flores):
       H.R. 541. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to improvethe calculation, oversight, and accountability 
     of non-DSH supplemental payments under the Medicaid program, 
     and for otherpurposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself, Mr.Mullin, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Bucshon, and Mr. Flores):
       H.R. 542. A bill toamend title XI of the Social Security 
     Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
     follow rulemaking proceduresfor costly Medicaid subregulatory 
     policies; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr.COLLINS of New York (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Bucshon, and Mr.Flores):
       H.R. 543. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act for purposes ofprioritizing the most vulnerable Medicaid 
     patients; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr.COOK (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, 
             Mr.Poliquin, and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 544. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
     toprovide for penalties for the sale of any Purple Heart 
     awarded to a member of the Armed Forces; to the Committee on 
     theJudiciary.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Peterson, and Mr.David Scott of Georgia):
       H.R. 545. A bill to establish the United States Commission 
     on theOrganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in additionto the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for considerationof such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CULBERSON(for himself, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Smith 
             of Texas, Mr. Weber of Texas, and Mr. Barletta):
       H.R. 546. A bill to amend section 412(a)(2) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to require the Director of 
     theOffice of Refugee Resettlement to obtain the approval of 
     the Governor of a State before placing or resettling a 
     refugee with theState, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (forherself, Mr. Takano, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Deutch, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Clark 
             ofMassachusetts, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. 
             Pingree, Ms. Speier, Ms. Moore, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr.Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Cartwright, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Matsui, Mr.Cicilline, Mr. Price 
             of North Carolina, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Serrano, Ms.Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Richmond, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr.Welch, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Ms. Bordallo, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Carsonof 
             Indiana, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Cardenas, Ms.Kuster 
             of New Hampshire, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Keating, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr.Foster, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Heck, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Meng, 
             Mr.Sarbanes, Mr. Levin, Mr. Payne, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr.Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mrs. Lowey, 
             Mr. Sherman, Mr. Ellison, Mr.Grijalva, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Ms. Esty, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Ms.Velazquez, Ms. Lee, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Eshoo, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 547. A bill to facilitate efficient investments and 
     financing of infrastructure projects andnew job creation 
     through the establishment of a National Infrastructure 
     Development Bank, and for other purposes; to theCommittee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, Financial Services,and 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisionsas fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DENT (for himself, Mr.Langevin, Mr. Sessions, 
             Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             Gosar, and Mr.Harper):
       H.R. 548. A bill to improve access to emergency medical 
     services, and for otherpurposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself, Mr. Kingof New York, Mr. 
             Katko, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Payne, and Mr. 
             McCaul):
       H.R. 549. A bill to amend the Implementing Recommendations 
     of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 to clarify 
     certainallowable uses of funds for public transportation 
     security assistance grants and establish periods of 
     performance for suchgrants, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. ENGEL (forhimself, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Zeldin, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. Meng, 
             Mr.Lowenthal, Mr. King of New York, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R.550. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     require the deployment of law enforcement personnel at- 
     airportscreening locations at very large airports, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
       H.R. 551. A bill to amend the Patient Protection 
     andAffordable Care Act to permit insurers to offer 
     catastrophic coverage plans to anyone, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committeeon Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
       H.R. 552. A bill toprohibit implementation of the revised 
     definition of short-term, limited duration insurance in order 
     to permit such insurance toprovide up to 12 months of 
     coverage; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Education andthe Workforce, and

[[Page H545]]

     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case forconsideration of such provisions 
     as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr.JODY B. HICE of Georgia:
       H.R. 553. A bill to redesignate Gravelly Point Park, 
     located alongthe George Washington Memorial Parkway in 
     Arlington County, Virginia, as the Nancy Reagan Memorial 
     Park, and for other purposes;to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 554. Abill to suspend the authority of a State to 
     administer funds under Federal block grant programs if the 
     State does not enactcertain conflict of interest protections, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition tothe Committees on Education and 
     the Workforce, Financial Services, Homeland Security, the 
     Judiciary, Transportation andInfrastructure, and Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration ofsuch provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KINZINGER(for himself, Mr. Courtney, and Mr. 
             Walden):
       H.R. 555. A bill to direct the FederalCommunications 
     Commission to amend its rules so as to prohibit the 
     application to amateur stations of certain private land 
     userestrictions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LANCE (forhimself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 556. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     FederalHighway Administration to make an exception to the 
     Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices to allow for 
     certain coloredmarkings between longitudinal parallel lines 
     for celebratory or ceremonial purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation andInfrastructure.
           By Mr. LATTA:
       H.R. 557. A bill to amend theCommunications Act of 1934 to 
     reform the Federal Communications Commission by requiring an 
     analysis of benefits and costs duringthe rule making process 
     and creating certain presumptions regarding regulatory 
     forbearance and biennial regulatory reviewdeterminations; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr.Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Woodall, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Carter ofGeorgia, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, and Mr. Allen):
       H.R. 558. A bill to adjust theboundary of the Kennesaw 
     Mountain National Battlefield Park to include the Wallis 
     House and Harriston Hill, and for otherpurposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr. AustinScott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Barr, Mr. Messer, Mr. 
             Babin, Mr. Arrington, and Mr.Bishop of Michigan):
       H.R. 559. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide foran alternative removal for performance or 
     misconduct for Federal employees; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself and Mr. Cartwright):
       H.R. 560. Abill to amend the Delaware Water Gap National 
     Recreation Area Improvement Act to provide access to certain 
     vehicles servingresidents of municipalities adjacent to the 
     Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area, and for other 
     purposes; to theCommittee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 561. A bill toamend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the definition of applicable large employer for 
     purposes of the employermandate in the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr.MESSER:
       H.R. 562. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to flatline theindividual mandate penalty; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 563. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exempt certain individuals from the individualhealth 
     insurance mandate; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Mr.Murphy of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Calvert, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, Ms. 
             Jenkins of Kansas, Ms.Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mr. Knight, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Ms. Castor of Florida, 
             Mr. Walker, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Holding, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania,Mr. Cole, Mr. Harris, Mr. Ross, Mr. 
             Schrader, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Sessions,Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Emmer, Mr. LaHood, Ms.Titus, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Mast, Mr.Brat, Mr. Peterson, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, and Mr. Denham):
       H.R. 564. Abill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug Administration's 
     jurisdiction over certaintobacco products, and to protect 
     jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
     and distribution of traditionaland premium cigars; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ROHRABACHER (for himself,Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
             King of Iowa, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, and Mr.Grothman):
       H.R. 565. A bill to recognize that Christians and Yazidis 
     in Iraq, Syria,Pakistan, Iran, and Libya are targets of 
     genocide, and to provide for the expedited processing of 
     immigrant and refugee visasfor such individuals, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on ForeignAffairs, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fallwithin the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself, Mr.Sherman, and Mr. 
             Zeldin):
       H.R. 566. A bill to require the President to report on 
     theuse by the Government of Iran of commercial aircraft and 
     related services for illicit military or other activities, 
     and forother purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Ms.Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico,Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Langevin, Mr.Ellison, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Ms. Pingree, and Mr. Sarbanes):
       H.R. 567. A bill toamend title 5, United States Code, to 
     clarify the application of the restriction on the appointment 
     of relatives to a positionin the Federal Government, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Ms. Jayapal, and Ms. 
             Velazquez):
       H.R.568. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978 to require certain Federal officials to make requisite 
     financialdisclosures within 30 days of assuming office, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, andin addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each casefor consideration of such provisions 
     as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           ByMr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 569. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide forretroactive calculation since the start of combat 
     operations in Afghanistan of days of certain active duty or 
     active serviceperformed as a member of the Ready Reserve to 
     reduce the eligibility age for receipt of retired pay for 
     non-regular service; tothe Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 570. A billto authorize microenterprise assistance for 
     renewable energy projects in developing countries; to the 
     Committee on ForeignAffairs.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 571. A bill to permit members of theHouse of 
     Representatives to donate used computer equipment to public 
     elementary and secondary schools designated by the members;to 
     the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R.572. A bill to facilitate the export of United States 
     agricultural products to Cuba as authorized by the Trade 
     Sanctions Reformand Export Enhancement Act of 2000, to remove 
     impediments to the export to Cuba of medical devices and 
     medicines, to allowtravel to Cuba by United States legal 
     residents, to establish an agricultural export promotion 
     program with respect to Cuba, andfor other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, the Judiciary,Agriculture, and 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for considerationof 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 573. A bill to waive certain prohibitions with respect 
     to nationals of Cuba coming to theUnited States to play 
     organized professional baseball; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee onthe Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions asfall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 574. A bill to lift the trade embargo on Cuba, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     inaddition to the Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and 
     Commerce, Financial Services, the Judiciary, Oversight and 
     GovernmentReform, and Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of suchprovisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SESSIONS:
       H.R. 575. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to establish new procedures andrequirements for 
     the registration of cosmetic manufacturing establishments, 
     the submission of cosmetic and ingredientstatements, and the 
     reporting of serious cosmetic adverse events, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy andCommerce.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mr. Delaney, Mr. MacArthur, 
             Mr. Larsonof Connecticut, Mr. Polis, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mrs. Walorski, and 
             Mr.Paulsen):
       H.R. 576. A bill to encourage and support partnerships 
     between the public andprivate

[[Page H546]]

     sectors to improve our Nation's social programs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, andin 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
     ineach case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
     within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. TITUS:
       H.R. 577. A bill to designate a peak in the State of Nevada 
     as MaudeFrazier Mountain; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself and Mr.Issa):
       H.R. 578. A bill to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief 
     Act to authorize spouses ofservicemembers to elect to use the 
     same residences as the servicemembers; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. YARMUTH (for himself and Mr. Schweikert):
       H.R. 579. Abill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
     mint coins in commemoration of Muhammad Ali; to the Committee 
     on FinancialServices.
           By Mr. YARMUTH (for himself, Mr. Meeks, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 580. A bill to establish a grant program to preserve 
     the legacy and ideals of Muhammad Ali and promote 
     globalrespect, understanding, and communication, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa:
       H.R. 581. A bill to provide for the issuance of a 
     semipostal tosupport Department of Agriculture conservation 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and GovernmentReform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each casefor consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           ByMr. ENGEL:
       H.J. Res. 28. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of theUnited States to protect the voting 
     rights of the citizens of the United States; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr. Carter of Georgia, 
             Mr. Barton, Mr.Griffith, Mr. Brat, Mr. DesJarlais, 
             Mr. Schweikert, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois,Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Collins of Georgia, 
             Mr. Gowdy, and Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia):
       H.J. Res. 29. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United Statesrequiring that the 
     Federal budget be balanced; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. FUDGE(for herself, Ms. Adams, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr.Carson of Indiana, Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms.Clarke of New York, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr.Ellison, 
             Mr. Engel, Mr. Evans, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr.Hastings, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Ms.Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Ms. Lee, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Moore,Mr. Nadler, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Ms. Pingree, 
             Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin,Mr. Richmond, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Mr.Serrano, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Soto, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Ms.Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Veasey, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Brown 
             ofMaryland, Mr. Clay, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. 
             McEachin, and Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H. Con. Res. 9. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that a day should be designated as 
     ``NationalVoting Rights Act Mobilization Day''; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr.PAULSEN (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H. Con. Res. 10. Concurrent resolution expressingthe sense 
     of the Congress that tax-exempt fraternal benefit societies 
     have historically and continue to provide criticalbenefits to 
     Americans and United States communities; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mrs.McMORRIS RODGERS:
       H. Res. 51. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committeesof the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 52. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of 
     Representatives;considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. LATTA:
       H. Res. 53. A resolutionexpressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that in order to continue aggressive 
     growth in the Nation'stelecommunications and technology 
     industries, the United States Government should ``Get Out of 
     the Way and Stay Out of theWay''; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.

                          ____________________



