

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1540]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Cochran, 
             and Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 478. A bill to amend the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to 
     prohibit baiting exemptions on certain land; to the Committee 
     on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Cardin, and 
             Ms. Collins):
       S. 479. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare for colorectal cancer 
     screening tests, regardless of whether therapeutic 
     intervention is required during the screening; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Udall):
       S. 480. A bill to reauthorize the Multinational Species 
     Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BENNET:
       S. 481. A bill to provide for the withdrawal and protection 
     of certain Federal land in the State of Colorado, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Capito, and 
             Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 482. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to treat certain amounts paid for physical activity, fitness, 
     and exercise as amounts paid for medical care; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. MURRAY:
       S. 483. A bill to designate and expand wilderness areas in 
     Olympic National Forest in the State of Washington, and to 
     designate certain rivers in Olympic National Forest and 
     Olympic National Park as wild and scenic rivers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 484. A bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 1940 
     to terminate an exemption for companies located in Puerto 
     Rico, the Virgin Islands, and any other possession of the 
     United States; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. McCain, 
             Mr. Risch, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
             Barrasso, Mr. Daines, Mr. Tester, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 485. A bill to amend the Healthy Forests Restoration Act 
     of 2003 to provide cancellation ceilings for stewardship end 
     result contracting projects, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Portman, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
             Gardner, Mr. Brown, Mr. Roberts, Ms. Stabenow, Mrs. 
             Capito, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 486. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for the non-application of Medicare 
     competitive acquisition rates to complex rehabilitative 
     wheelchairs and accessories; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mr. Bennet, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Cochran, Ms. Duckworth, 
             Mr. Gardner, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Isakson, Mr. King, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Menendez, and Mr. Risch):
       S. 487. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for an exclusion for assistance provided to 
     participants in certain veterinary student loan repayment or 
     forgiveness programs; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 488. A bill to increase the threshold for disclosures 
     required by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating 
     to compensatory benefit plans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

                          ____________________



