

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1218-S1219]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 16

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 16, a bill to require a full 
audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
Federal reserve banks by the Comptroller General of the United States, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 26

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 26, a bill to amend the 
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require the disclosure of certain 
tax returns by Presidents and certain candidates for the office of the 
President, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 27, a bill to establish an independent commission to 
examine and report on the facts regarding the extent of Russian 
official and unofficial cyber operations and other attempts to 
interfere in the 2016 United States national election, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 66, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to permit certain retired members of the 
uniformed services who have a service-connected disability to receive 
both disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for their disability and either retired pay by reason of their years of 
military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 82

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. 
Whitehouse) were added as cosponsors of S. 82, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand the denial of deduction for 
certain excessive employee remuneration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 94

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Montana

[[Page S1219]]

(Mr. Daines), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly), the Senator from 
Indiana (Mr. Young), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), 
the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) were added as cosponsors of S. 94, a bill to impose sanctions 
in response to cyber intrusions by the Government of the Russian 
Federation and other aggressive activities of the Russian Federation, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 96

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. Grassley) and the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 96, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
ensure the integrity of voice communications and to prevent unjust or 
unreasonable discrimination among areas of the United States in the 
delivery of such communications.


                                 S. 184

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 184, a bill to prohibit 
taxpayer funded abortions.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to provide 
immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose potential 
examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 260, a bill to 
repeal the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
providing for the Independent Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of 
adult day health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 375

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 375, a bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 to establish a procedure for approval of certain settlements.


                                 S. 376

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 376, a bill to amend the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 to require publication on the Internet 
of the basis for determinations that species are endangered species or 
threatened species, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 1, a joint 
resolution approving the location of a memorial to commemorate and 
honor the members of the Armed Forces who served on active duty in 
support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) and the 
Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of 
S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent resolution supporting the Local Radio 
Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 55

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 55, a 
resolution recognizing February 26, 2017, as the 100th anniversary of 
the establishment of Denali National Park and Preserve in the State of 
Alaska.


                               S. RES. 60

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 60, a resolution designating 
May 5, 2017, as the ``National Day of Awareness for Missing and 
Murdered Native Women and Girls''.

                          ____________________



