

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S223-S224]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                                 RUSSIA

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I rise today to speak on a matter of 
great importance to the foreign policy of thiscountry: our relationship 
with Russia and the efficacy of international sanctions to achieve our 
international security goals.
  The reports of the past 24 hours are extremely troubling. But one 
thing we now all agree on is that Russia is behind thehacking of our 
election, as even the President-elect has now just said. This makes it 
even more important that we not only keepthe existing sanctions in 
place but that we institute a new, tough sanctions regime in response 
so Russia can't get away withwhat they did and other countries will 
know as well that they will suffer penalty if they try to interfere 
with our elections.
  Unfortunately, this morning's Cabinet hearing on Mr. Tillerson's 
nomination is a very troubling sign of things to come. Inone breath, 
Mr. Tillerson said that the invasion of Crimea is a violation of 
international law, and in the next, amazinglyenough, he declined to 
commit to maintaining the existing sanctions regime against Russia. He 
said he wants to get classifiedbriefings first and then consult with 
the President-elect. But I remind the

[[Page S224]]

country, as my friend the Senator fromFlorida, Mr. Rubio, from across 
the aisle, did, that these sanctions are a result of past crimes.
  We don't need aclassified briefing to know what Russia has done in 
the past. To duck the question and to refuse to commit to continuing 
thesesanctions is tantamount to sweeping Russia's flouting of 
international laws under the rug. It sort of says: Go ahead, 
interferein our elections again; nothing will happen to you. It says 
the same to China and Iran or to any other country that might try 
tohack.
  Secretary Nominee Tillerson has also not committed to new sanctions. 
Just yesterday, abipartisan group of Senators, including the Senators 
from South Carolina, Maryland, Florida, California, Nebraska, 
introduced atough, new sanctions-on-Russia bill for their interference 
in our elections. I support this effort. I believe the Senate shouldact 
soon upon it. I am very concerned that thus far the President-elect, 
Mr. Tillerson, and Senator Sessions have notendorsed these tough new 
sanctions.
  The Senator from Florida--not from my party--also pressed Mr. 
Tillerson on a series of warcrimes committed by the Assad regime and 
the Russian military in Syria. These crimes have been reported in the 
press anddetailed extensively by people on the ground and discussed at 
length by my friend, the Republican Senator from Arizona, Mr.McCain. 
Mr. Tillerson will not even acknowledge these violations of human 
rights and war crimes.
  Finally, I am veryconcerned that despite the fact that we have 
registered lobbying disclosures from ExxonMobil itself, documenting 
theirinvolvement in lobbying against Iran sanctions, Mr. Tillerson said 
this morning that Exxon did not lobby on sanctions, to hisknowledge.
  This comes on top of recent reports that Exxon avoided Iran's 
sanctions by dealing with Iran and other statesponsors of terrorism 
through a European subsidiary. This, too, is very concerning. It raises 
real questions as to whether thePresident-elect and his Cabinet are 
prepared to stand up to Putin, stand up to Iran, and represent the 
interests of the Americanpeople and defend our democratic allies around 
the world.
  My friends on the other side of the aisle have nearly 
universallycriticized this President, Mr. Obama, for his policy on 
Syria and for not being tough enough on Vladimir Putin. Republicans 
havealways called themselves the party of Reagan. I don't need to 
remind any of them of his famous speech in West Berlin. Now, itseems, 
this fundamental tenet of Republican foreign policy, and indeed our 
national policy for the last few decades, is erodingbefore our very 
eyes. Now, it seems, the President-elect and his Cabinet may never 
address the international security policychallenges posed by Russia and 
state sponsors of terrorism like Iran and Syria. If Mr. Tillerson 
cannot even say that he willsupport the existing sanctions, what kind 
of Secretary of State will he be? I am worried.
  Madam President, I yield thefloor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistantlegislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I ask unanimousconsent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



