

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H234-H235]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Carter of Texas, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Austin 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Hudson, 
             Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Harris, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Olson, 
             Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Carter of Georgia, 
             Mr. Labrador, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Brat, Mr. Abraham, Mr. 
             Palmer, Mrs. Love, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. Stewart, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Jody B. Hice 
             of Georgia, Mr. Buck, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Messer, 
             Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
             Newhouse, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Graves of 
             Georgia, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Massie, Mr. King of 
             Iowa, Mr. Gohmert, and Mr. Yoder):
       H.R. 367. A bill to provide that silencers be treated the 
     same as long guns; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CRAWFORD (for himself, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Harper, 
             Mr. Westerman, Mr. Hill, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. 
             Palazzo, and Mr. Womack):
       H.R. 368. A bill to provide the force and effect of law for 
     certain regulations relating to the taking of double-crested 
     cormorants to reduce depredation at aquaculture facilities 
     and protect public resources; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee:
       H.R. 369. A bill to eliminate the sunset of the Veterans 
     Choice Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. FLORES:
       H.R. 370. A bill to repeal the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act and health care-related provisions in the 
     Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Education and the Workforce, 
     Ways and Means, the Judiciary, Natural Resources, Rules, 
     House Administration, Appropriations, and the Budget, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself, Mr. Neal, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Welch, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cummings, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Huffman, 
             Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Schiff, 
             Mr. Gallego, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Capuano, 
             Mr. Kind, Mr. Evans, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Sarbanes, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Doggett, Mr. Moulton, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Connolly, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. Soto, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Ms. Moore, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Ms. Titus, Ms. Matsui, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Polis, Ms. Lee, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Takano, Mr. Al Green 
             of Texas, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Ms. Bass, Mr. Cooper, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Himes, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Levin, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Foster, Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Yarmuth, 
             and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 371. A bill to address financial conflicts of interest 
     of the President and Vice President; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, and the Judiciary, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. Brat, Mr. Brooks of 
             Alabama, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Jones, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Ferguson, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Babin, and Mr. Smith of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 372. A bill to restore the application of the Federal 
     antitrust laws to the business of health insurance to protect 
     competition and consumers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GOHMERT:
       H.R. 373. A bill to withhold United States assessed and 
     voluntary contributions to the United Nations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. BEUTLER (for herself, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. Thompson of California, and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 374. A bill to remove the sunset provision of section 
     203 of Public Law 105-384 and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, 
             Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Mrs. Black, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Cohen, and Mr. Cooper):
       H.R. 375. A bill to designate the Federal building and 
     United States courthouse located at 719 Church Street in 
     Nashville, Tennessee, as the ``Fred D. Thompson Federal 
     Building and United States Courthouse''; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Lofgren, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Moore, Ms. Norton, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Titus, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Keating, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, and Ms. Eshoo):
       H.R. 376. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require shareholder authorization before a public 
     company may make certain political expenditures, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. DIAZ-BALART (for himself, Mr. Gohmert, Ms. 
             Granger, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. Weber of Texas, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mrs. Black, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             Trott, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Barletta, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mr. Posey, Mr. Ross, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Rouzer, and Mr. Yoder):
       H.R. 377. A bill to require the Secretary of State to 
     submit a report to Congress on the designation of the Muslim 
     Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FLEISCHMANN (for himself and Mr. Cooper):
       H.R. 378. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     enhance the authority under which Federal agencies may pay 
     cash awards to employees for making cost saving disclosures, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 379. A bill to assist members of the Yazidi and 
     Christian communities residing in Iraq and Syria, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Armed 
     Services, and Appropriations, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.

[[Page H235]]

  

           By Mr. McCAUL:
       H.R. 380. A bill to direct the Secretary of State to submit 
     to Congress a report on the designation of Iran's Islamic 
     Revolutionary Guard Corps as a foreign terrorist 
     organization, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr. Cook, Mrs. Mimi 
             Walters of California, Mr. Rohrabacher, Ms. Matsui, 
             Mr. Hunter, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Costa, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Takano, Mr. Denham, Mr. 
             Nunes, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Issa, Mr. 
             Knight, Mr. Calvert, and Mr. Ted Lieu of California):
       H.R. 381. A bill to designate a mountain in the John Muir 
     Wilderness of the Sierra National Forest as ``Sky Point''; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself and Mr. Zinke):
       H.R. 382. A bill to amend the Department of Agriculture 
     program for research and extension grants to increase 
     participation by women and underrepresented minorities in the 
     fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
     to redesignate the program as the ``Jeannette Rankin Women 
     and Minorities in STEM Fields Program''; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 383. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     extend the post-employment restrictions on lobbying by 
     Members of Congress and officers and employees of the 
     legislative branch; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 384. A bill to provide that a former Member of 
     Congress or former senior Congressional employee who receives 
     compensation as a lobbyist shall not be eligible for 
     retirement benefits or certain other Federal benefits; to the 
     Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN (for herself and Mr. Sablan):
       H.R. 385. A bill to amend the Expedited Funds Availability 
     Act to clarify the application of that Act to American Samoa 
     and the Northern Mariana Islands; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 386. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to increase the amount excludable from gross income for 
     dependent care assistance and dependent care flexible 
     spending arrangements and to provide for a carryover of 
     unused dependent care benefits in dependent care flexible 
     spending arrangements; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. YODER (for himself, Mr. Polis, Mr. Goodlatte, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Poe of Texas, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Hurd, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Collins of Georgia, and Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California):
       H.R. 387. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     update the privacy protections for electronic communications 
     information that is stored by third-party service providers 
     in order to protect consumer privacy interests while meeting 
     law enforcement needs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH:
       H.J. Res. 23. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of 
     terms that a Member of Congress may serve to four in the 
     House of Representatives and two in the Senate; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARINO:
       H.J. Res. 24. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of 
     years an individual may serve as a Member of Congress; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARINO:
       H.J. Res. 25. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to end the practice of 
     including more than one subject in a single law by requiring 
     that each law enacted by Congress be limited to only one 
     subject and that the subject be clearly and descriptively 
     expressed in the title of the law; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 34. A resolution electing Members to Certain 
     Standing Committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee):
       H. Res. 35. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives relating to automated external 
     defibrillator (AED) training in the Nation's schools; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



