

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1296-H1303]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Mr. 
             Walberg):
       H.R. 1101. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
     Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to improve access and 
     choice for entrepreneurs with small businesses with respect 
     to medical care for their employees; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Clay, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. DeFazio, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Esty, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. 
             Huffman, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, Ms. Pelosi, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Schiff, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Suozzi, Mr.

[[Page H1297]]

             Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Welch, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, and Mr. Nolan):
       H.R. 1102. A bill to require States to conduct 
     Congressional redistricting through independent commissions, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Ms. Speier, Mrs. Hartzler, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Poe 
             of Texas, Ms. Moore, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Soto, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mrs. 
             Noem, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Royce of California, Ms. 
             Norton, and Mr. Heck):
       H.R. 1103. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for garnishment pursuant to a court order to satisfy 
     a judgment against a retired member of the uniformed services 
     for physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself and Miss Rice of 
             New York):
       H.R. 1104. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for pro-rated charges to entitlement to educational 
     assistance under Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 
     Educational Assistance Program for certain licensure and 
     certification tests and national tests, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ALLEN:
       H.R. 1105. A bill to repeal the rule entitled ``Clean Water 
     Rule: Definition of `Waters of the United States' ''; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. AMODEI:
       H.R. 1106. A bill to provide for the conveyance of small 
     parcels of National Forest System land and small parcels of 
     public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management to 
     private landowners, State, county, and local governments, or 
     Indian tribes whose lands share a boundary with the National 
     Forest System land or public lands, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. AMODEI (for himself and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 1107. A bill to promote conservation, improve public 
     land management, and provide for sensible development in 
     Pershing County, Nevada, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. DeLAURO:
       H.R. 1108. A bill to provide for the mandatory recall of 
     drugs regulated by the Food and Drug Administration; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Hudson, 
             Mr. McNerney, and Mr. Mullin):
       H.R. 1109. A bill to amend section 203 of the Federal Power 
     Act; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Amash, and Ms. 
             Lofgren):
       H.R. 1110. A bill to repeal certain amendments made to rule 
     41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Rush, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Soto, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Polis, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             and Ms. Kaptur):
       H.R. 1111. A bill to establish a Department of 
     Peacebuilding, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LABRADOR (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Brat, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, and Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico):
       H.R. 1112. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the transfer of unused Post-9/11 Educational 
     Assistance benefits to additional dependents upon the death 
     of the originally designated dependent; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO:
       H.R. 1113. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure that the receipts and disbursements of the 
     Social Security trust funds are not included in a unified 
     Federal budget and to provide that Social Security 
     contributions are used to protect Social Security solvency by 
     mandating that Trust Fund monies cannot be diverted to create 
     private accounts; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Al Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Keating, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Khanna, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Slaughter, and Mr. 
             Tonko):
       H.R. 1114. A bill to enhance Social Security benefits and 
     ensure the long-term solvency of the Social Security program; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. Neal, and Mr. 
             Renacci):
       H.R. 1115. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify certain rules applicable to qualified small 
     issue manufacturing bonds; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. TIPTON (for himself, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Posey, Mr. Williams, Mrs. Love, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Trott, and Mr. Barr):
       H.R. 1116. A bill to require the Federal financial 
     institutions regulatory agencies to take risk profiles and 
     business models of institutions into account when taking 
     regulatory actions, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 1117. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency to submit a report 
     regarding certain plans regarding assistance to applicants 
     and grantees during the response to an emergency or disaster; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD (for himself, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, and Mr. Smith of Texas):
       H.R. 1118. A bill to prevent undue disruption of interstate 
     commerce by limiting civil actions brought against persons 
     whose only role with regard to a product in the stream of 
     commerce is as a lawful seller of the product; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Barletta, and Mr. 
             Kelly of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1119. A bill to establish the bases by which the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall 
     issue, implement, and enforce certain emission limitations 
     and allocations for existing electric utility steam 
     generating units that convert coal refuse into energy; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. McKinley, Ms. Meng, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Thompson of California, and Ms. 
             Tsongas):
       H.R. 1120. A bill to promote and ensure delivery of high 
     quality special education and related services to students 
     with visual disabilities or who are deaf or hard of hearing 
     or deaf-blind through instructional methodologies meeting 
     their unique learning needs; to enhance accountability for 
     the provision of such services, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. WALDEN (for himself, Mr. Latta, Mr. Walberg, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Lance, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Bilirakis, Mrs. 
             Mimi Walters of California, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Bishop 
             of Michigan, Mrs. Wagner, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Knight, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Poliquin, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. 
             Reichert, Mr. Harper, Mr. Upton, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Allen, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
             Smucker, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Denham, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mr. Fortenberry, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
             Collins of New York, Mr. Stivers, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Flores, 
             Mr. Roskam, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Tiberi, 
             Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Simpson, and Mr. 
             Murphy of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1121. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     prohibit application of pre-existing condition exclusions and 
     to guarantee availability of health insurance coverage in the 
     individual and group market, contingent on the enactment of 
     legislation repealing the Patient Protection and Affordable 
     Care Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Education

[[Page H1298]]

     and the Workforce, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Kind):
       H.R. 1122. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for clarification and rationalization 
     of Medicare prescription drug plan recovery rules for certain 
     claims; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. Byrne, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, and Mr. Hill):
       H.R. 1123. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to modify certain provisions relating to the capital 
     financing of historically Black colleges and universities; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BABIN (for himself and Mr. McClintock):
       H.R. 1124. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of the Treasury 
     and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System from 
     providing bailouts or other financial assistance to a pension 
     plan of a State or political subdivision thereof, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana:
       H.R. 1125. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide for new procedures pertaining to the 
     processing of petitions and applications for immigrant or 
     nonimmigrant visas, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Comer, Mr. 
             Massie, and Mr. Rogers of Kentucky):
       H.R. 1126. A bill to exempt the aging process of distilled 
     spirits from the production period for purposes of 
     capitalization of interest costs; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Ms. BASS:
       H.R. 1127. A bill to increase purchasing power, strengthen 
     economic recovery, and restore fairness in financing higher 
     education in the United States through student loan 
     forgiveness, caps on interest rates on Federal student loans, 
     and refinancing opportunities for private borrowers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on Financial 
     Services, and Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, 
             Ms. Moore, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, and Ms. Jackson 
             Lee):
       H.R. 1128. A bill to assist survivors of stroke and other 
     debilitating health occurrences in returning to work; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
       H.R. 1129. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to strengthen student visa background checks and 
     improve the monitoring of foreign students in the United 
     States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mrs. 
             Blackburn, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Byrne, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Brooks 
             of Alabama, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Kustoff of 
             Tennessee, and Mr. Aderholt):
       H.R. 1130. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to ensure fairness in Medicare hospital payments 
     by establishing a floor for the area wage index applied with 
     respect to certain hospitals; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself, Mr. Costa, Mr. Rodney Davis 
             of Illinois, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Shuster, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mrs. Hartzler, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. Bergman, Ms. Gabbard, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, and Mr. 
             Lowenthal):
       H.R. 1131. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to develop and implement a plan to hire directors of 
     the medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BUCK (for himself, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 1132. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for a 2 year prohibition on employment in a career 
     civil service position for any former political appointee, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTER of Texas (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Poe of Texas, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Bishop 
             of Georgia, Mr. Flores, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Valadao, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. 
             Lamborn, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Thornberry, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Williams, Mr. Cook, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Mr. Babin, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Culberson, Mr. 
             Marino, Ms. Granger, Mrs. Black, Mr. Calvert, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Long, and Mr. 
             MacArthur):
       H.R. 1133. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide for an 
     operation on a live donor for purposes of conducting a 
     transplant procedure for a veteran, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Crowley, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Davis of California, 
             Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Delaney, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Ms. DelBene, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Engel, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. 
             Esty, Mr. Evans, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Heck, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Keating, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Levin, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, 
             Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Ms. Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Peters, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Quigley, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Ruppersberger, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Soto, 
             Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Titus, 
             Mrs. Torres, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Welch, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. 
             Pelosi, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Himes, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Sires, 
             Mr. McNerney, Ms. Jayapal, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Foster, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Costa, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Gabbard, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Takano, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mrs. Lawrence, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 1134. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to provide for additional disclosure requirements 
     for corporations, labor organizations, and other entities, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Adams, 
             Ms. Bass, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             Meeks, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Ms. 
             Plaskett, Mr. Rush, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Thompson 
             of Mississippi, Mr. Veasey, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. Love, 
             and Ms. Maxine Waters of California):
       H.R. 1135. A bill to reauthorize the Historically Black 
     Colleges and Universities Historic Preservation program; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.

[[Page H1299]]

  

           By Mr. COLE (for himself and Mr. Bishop of Georgia):
       H.R. 1136. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to provide for a certain effective date with 
     respect to deemed tobacco products, to provide for the 
     establishment of product standards for vapor product 
     batteries, to provide for regulation of vapor products, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Ms. Cheney, and 
             Mr. Babin):
       H.R. 1137. A bill to amend the Arms Export Control Act to 
     provide that certain firearms listed as curios or relics may 
     be imported into the United States by a licensed importer 
     without obtaining authorization from the Department of State 
     or the Department of Defense, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COOK (for himself, Mr. Royce of California, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, and Mr. Aguilar):
       H.R. 1138. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide a criminal penalty for launching drones that 
     interfere with fighting wildfires affecting Federal property, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CRAMER:
       H.R. 1139. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to protect low-income Lifeline subscribers by mandating a 
     continuing role for States in designating eligible 
     telecommunications carriers for participation in the 
     Universal Service program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DELANEY:
       H.R. 1140. A bill to provide additional funding for the 
     Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority and improve 
     upon the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority 
     Compact, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself 
             and Mr. Smith of New Jersey):
       H.R. 1141. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act to ensure 
     that all dogs and cats used by research facilities are 
     obtained legally; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Culberson, 
             and Mr. Fleischmann):
       H.R. 1142. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Master Sergeant Rodrick ``Roddie'' Edmonds in recognition of 
     his heroic actions during World War II; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Norton, and Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico):
       H.R. 1143. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     address the increased burden that maintaining the health and 
     hygiene of infants and toddlers places on families in need, 
     the resultant adverse health effects on children and 
     families, and the limited child care options available for 
     infants and toddlers who lack sufficient diapers; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Pocan, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Norton, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
             Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Slaughter, and Mr. 
             Takano):
       H.R. 1144. A bill to impose a tax on certain trading 
     transactions to invest in our families and communities, 
     improve our infrastructure and our environment, strengthen 
     our financial security, expand opportunity and reduce market 
     volatility; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself and Mr. Paulsen):
       H.R. 1145. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to qualify homeless youth and veterans who are full-time 
     students for purposes of the low income housing tax credit; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ELLISON:
       H.R. 1146. A bill to require the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to establish a pilot program to make grants 
     to eligible organizations to provide legal assistance to low-
     income families regarding housing disputes, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ESTY (for herself and Mrs. Walorski):
       H.R. 1147. A bill to provide for the issuance of a Families 
     of Fallen Heroes Semipostal Stamp; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Carter 
             of Georgia, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Collins of New 
             York, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Babin, Mr. Turner, and Mr. Johnson of 
             Ohio):
       H.R. 1148. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to expand access to telehealth-eligible stroke 
     services under the Medicare program; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Smith 
             of Texas, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Brat, and Mr. 
             Marchant):
       H.R. 1149. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to make changes related to family-sponsored immigrants 
     and to reduce the number of such immigrants, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HOLDING (for himself and Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 1150. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the excise tax on indoor tanning services; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HUDSON:
       H.R. 1151. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to encourage the prioritization of the most vulnerable 
     individuals under the Medicaid program; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself and Mr. Ruppersberger):
       H.R. 1152. A bill to eliminate the sunset date for the 
     Veterans Choice Program of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, to expand eligibility for such program, and to 
     extend certain operating hours for pharmacies and medical 
     facilities of the Department, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HUIZENGA (for himself, Mr. Royce of California, 
             Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Meeks, 
             and Mr. Joyce of Ohio):
       H.R. 1153. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     improve upon the definitions provided for points and fees in 
     connection with a mortgage transaction; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Gibbs, 
             Mr. King of New York, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             LoBiondo, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Bost, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. Babin, Mr. Graves of 
             Louisiana, and Mr. Lewis of Minnesota):
       H.R. 1154. A bill to provide for the establishment of 
     nationally uniform and environmentally sound standards 
     governing discharges incidental to the normal operation of a 
     commercial vessel; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 1155. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse 
     practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise 
     cardiac, intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation 
     programs; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Womack, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Mullin, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. 
             Valadao, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Flores, Mr. 
             Thornberry, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. Poe 
             of Texas, Mr. Babin, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Rokita, Mr. 
             Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Williams, Mrs. Brooks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Cole, Mr. Russell, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. 
             Olson, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Barton, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Hill, Mr. Harris, 
             Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, and Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1156. A bill to repeal changes made by health care 
     reform laws to the Medicare exception to the prohibition on 
     certain physician referrals for hospitals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KEATING:
       H.R. 1157. A bill to clarify the United States interest in 
     certain submerged lands in the area of the Monomoy National 
     Wildlife Refuge, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Richmond, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Turner, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Sessions, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Byrne, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             DelBene, Ms. Norton, and Mr. Tiberi):

[[Page H1300]]

  

       H.R. 1158. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to improve the Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credit, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. Diaz-
             Balart, and Mr. Veasey):
       H.R. 1159. A bill to provide for continuing cooperation 
     between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and 
     the Israel Space Agency, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 1160. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to improve the way beneficiaries are assigned 
     under the Medicare shared savings program by also basing such 
     assignment on primary care services furnished by nurse 
     practitioners, physician assistants, and clinical nurse 
     specialists; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Shimkus, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Bost, and Mr. 
             LaHood):
       H.R. 1161. A bill to include Livingston County, the city of 
     Jonesboro in Union County, and the city of Freeport in 
     Stephenson County, Illinois, to the Lincoln National Heritage 
     Area, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Mr. Heck, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Russell, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Keating, Mrs. 
             Davis of California, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Moulton, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Price of 
             North Carolina, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             Calvert, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Byrne, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. O'Rourke, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Cole, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Wittman, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Perry, Mrs. Hartzler, Mrs. Mimi Walters 
             of California, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Banks of Indiana, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             McKinley, Mr. Soto, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Denham, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Cook, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Poe of 
             Texas, Mr. Quigley, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 1162. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program to provide access to 
     magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to veterans; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. 
             Crawford, and Mr. Abraham):
       H.R. 1163. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     exempt certain recipients of Department of Agriculture 
     conservation assistance from certain reporting requirements, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 1164. A bill to condition assistance to the West Bank 
     and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian Authority to end 
     violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 1165. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide an exclusion from gross income for AmeriCorps 
     educational awards; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LONG:
       H.R. 1166. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide greater State flexibility and innovation 
     through Medicaid cost-sharing waivers; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself, Mr. Rush, and Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers):
       H.R. 1167. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to promote physician training in newly 
     recognized primary medical specialties, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself, Mr. Lance, Ms. McCollum, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Engel, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. Keating, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 1168. A bill to provide that service of the members of 
     the organization known as the United States Cadet Nurse Corps 
     during World War II constituted active military service for 
     purposes of laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs, and other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. O'Halleran, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Soto, Mr. Cook, Mr. Cole, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Issa, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Kind, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Ms. Moore, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Lucas, 
             and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 1169. A bill to amend the Native American Programs Act 
     of 1974 to provide flexibility and reauthorization to ensure 
     the survival and continuing vitality of Native American 
     languages; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Yoho, 
             Mr. Walker, and Mr. Palmer):
       H.R. 1170. A bill to require each Federal agency to review 
     rules made after the enactment of the Congressional Review 
     Act to ensure that all such rules were made in compliance 
     with the Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. MOULTON (for himself, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark 
             of Massachusetts, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Engel, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Jones, Mr. Keating, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. MacArthur, 
             Mr. McGovern, Mr. Peters, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Richmond, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Walz, and Mr. Swalwell of 
             California):
       H.R. 1171. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to eliminate the five month waiting period for disability 
     insurance benefits for individuals with amyotrophic lateral 
     sclerosis (ALS); to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. NEAL (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Levin, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Kind, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Higgins of New York, 
             Ms. DelBene, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Cicilline, Mrs. Davis 
             of California, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Himes, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Ms. Tsongas, and Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California):
       H.R. 1172. A bill to require the President to disclose 
     income, assets, and liabilities associated with countries 
     with which the United States is negotiating a trade or 
     investment agreement, countries subject to presidential 
     determinations in trade enforcement actions, and countries 
     eligible for trade preference programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, and Mr. Mullin):
       H.R. 1173. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for treatment of clinical 
     psychologists as physicians for purposes of furnishing 
     clinical psychologist services under the Medicare program; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr. DeFazio, and Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia):
       H.R. 1174. A bill to provide a lactation room in public 
     buildings; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 1175. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to improve access to health care through expanded health 
     savings accounts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. PINGREE (for herself and Mr. Wittman):
       H.R. 1176. A bill to amend the Coastal Zone Management Act 
     of 1972 to establish a Working Waterfront Task Force and a 
     working waterfronts grant program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN:
       H.R. 1177. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     release on behalf of the United States the condition that 
     certain lands conveyed to the City of Old Town, Maine, be 
     used for a municipal airport, and

[[Page H1301]]

     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, 
             Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Gosar, and Mr. 
             Babin):
       H.R. 1178. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to eliminate the diversity immigrant program; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RICE of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. Wilson 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Mooney 
             of West Virginia, Mr. Brat, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. 
             Allen, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Denham, Mr. 
             Conaway, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Perry, Mr. Austin Scott 
             of Georgia, Mr. Stewart, Ms. Granger, Mr. Biggs, and 
             Mr. Abraham):
       H.R. 1179. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act with respect to citizen suits and the 
     specification of disposal sites, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. ROBY:
       H.R. 1180. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to provide compensatory time for employees in the 
     private sector; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Conaway, and 
             Mr. Wenstrup):
       H.R. 1181. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the conditions under which certain persons may be 
     treated as adjudicated mentally incompetent for certain 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for himself and Mr. Poe of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 1182. A bill to require certain actions regarding 
     Russian Federation noncompliance with the INF Treaty, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Foreign Affairs, and 
     Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. Polis, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Peters, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Garamendi, Mrs. Napolitano, and Ms. 
             Sinema):
       H.R. 1183. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to improve mitigation 
     assistance; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. RUSH (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, and Ms. 
             Norton):
       H.R. 1184. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to require the Federal Communications Commission to prescribe 
     rules regulating inmate telephone and video service rates, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio:
       H.R. 1185. A bill to amend titles 10 and 41, United States 
     Code, to provide a contracting preference for contractors 
     that retain American jobs and purchase goods and services in 
     the United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Pocan, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 1186. A bill to amend the Small Business Act and the 
     Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to increase the 
     percentage of loans guaranteed for small business concerns 
     that are manufacturers; to the Committee on Small Business, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 1187. A bill to expand the research activities of the 
     National Institutes of Health with respect to functional 
     gastrointestinal and motility disorders, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, and 
             Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 1188. A bill to reauthorize certain programs 
     established by the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act 
     of 2006, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 1189. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to provide greater access to the supplemental nutrition 
     assistance program by reducing duplicative and burdensome 
     administrative requirements, authorize the Secretary of 
     Agriculture to award grants to certain community-based 
     nonprofit feeding and anti-hunger groups for the purpose of 
     establishing and implementing a Beyond the Soup Kitchen Pilot 
     Program for certain socially and economically disadvantaged 
     populations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for herself, Mr. Byrne, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. 
             Esty, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Kind, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Nolan, and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 1190. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow employers a credit against income tax for wages 
     paid to employees who participate in qualified apprenticeship 
     programs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Weber of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 1191. A bill to ensure effective implementation of the 
     Child Soldier Prevention Act of 2008 and hold governments 
     accountable for involving children in armed conflict 
     activities, whether as combatants, servants, or sex slaves; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Ms. Foxx, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Jones, Mrs. 
             Wagner, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Hill, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, 
             Mr. Babin, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Mooney of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Russell, Mr. Olson, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Pittenger, and Mr. Johnson 
             of Ohio):
       H.R. 1192. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit dismemberment abortions, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TROTT:
       H.R. 1193. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to authorize institutions of higher education to provide 
     additional loan counseling, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida (for herself, Mr. Veasey, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Moore, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Rush, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. 
             Adams, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Clay, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Ms. Maxine Waters of California, and Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 1194. A bill to establish the Commission on the Social 
     Status of Black Men and Boys, to study and make 
     recommendations to address social problems affecting Black 
     men and boys; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.R. 1195. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Commerce to 
     permit striped bass fishing in the Exclusive Economic Zone 
     transit zone between Montauk, New York, and Point Judith, 
     Rhode Island, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and Ms. 
             Sinema):
       H.R. 1196. A bill to require a plan to combat international 
     travel by terrorists and foreign fighters, accelerate the 
     transfer of certain border security systems to foreign 
     partner governments, establish minimum international border 
     security standards, authorize the suspension of foreign 
     assistance to countries not making significant efforts to 
     comply with such minimum standards, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Homeland Security, and the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HOYER (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Raskin, and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.J. Res. 76. A joint resolution granting the consent and 
     approval of Congress for the Commonwealth of Virginia, the 
     State of Maryland, and the District of Columbia to a enter 
     into a compact relating to the establishment of the 
     Washington Metrorail Safety Commission; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DUNN (for himself, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
             Francis Rooney of Florida, Mr. Ross, Mr. Bilirakis, 
             Mr. Mast, Mr. Posey, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Diaz-Balart, and 
             Mr. Buchanan):
       H.J. Res. 77. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Army Corps of 
     Engineers relating to the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint 
     River Basin Water Control Master Manual; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Cole, and 
             Ms. Matsui):
       H.J. Res. 78. A joint resolution providing for the 
     reappointment of Stephen M. Case as a citizen regent of the 
     Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Cole, and 
             Ms. Matsui):
       H.J. Res. 79. A joint resolution providing for the 
     appointment of Michael Govan as a

[[Page H1302]]

     citizen regent of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
     Institution; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Cole, and 
             Ms. Matsui):
       H.J. Res. 80. A joint resolution providing for the 
     appointment of Roger W. Ferguson as a citizen regent of the 
     Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. McCOLLUM:
       H.J. Res. 81. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States regarding health care; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Gosar, 
             and Mr. Cramer):
       H.J. Res. 82. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the final rule of the Bureau of Land 
     Management relating to ``Onshore Oil and Gas Operations; 
     Federal and Indian Oil and Gas Leases; Measurement of Oil''; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LaHood (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Kind, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Sires, Mr. Peters, Mr. Vargas, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. 
             Graves of Louisiana, Mr. Denham, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. 
             Byrne, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Griffith, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Bost, Mr. Roskam, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Messer, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Costa, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Smucker, Mr. 
             Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Rouzer, and Mr. 
             Bacon):
       H. Con. Res. 28. Concurrent resolution establishing a Joint 
     Committee on the Organization of Congress; to the Committee 
     on Rules.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Richmond, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, and Ms. Kelly of Illinois):
       H. Con. Res. 29. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of the Congress regarding the need for increased diversity 
     and inclusion in the tech sector, and increased access to 
     opportunity in science, technology, engineering, arts, and 
     mathematics (STEAM) education; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
       H. Res. 131. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Scott of Virginia, and Ms. 
             Slaughter):
       H. Res. 132. A resolution calling on the President to 
     initiate renegotiation of the North American Free Trade 
     Agreement (NAFTA) and further calling on the President to 
     consider withdrawing the United States from NAFTA if the 
     renegotiations are not satisfactorily completed within one 
     year; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS (for himself, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Jones, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Titus, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Roskam, Ms. Moore, and Mr. Faso):
       H. Res. 133. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of April 11 as ``National Pet Adoption Day'' and 
     the month of April as ``National Pet Adoption Month'' to 
     highlight the important role pets play in the lives of United 
     States citizens; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Fudge, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Rush, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Stivers, and Ms. Adams):
       H. Res. 134. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Black History Month and honoring the outstanding 
     contributions of African-American Medal of Honor recipients; 
     to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan (for himself and Mr. Trott):
       H. Res. 135. A resolution urging North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (NATO) member countries to meet or exceed the 
     two percent gross domestic product commitment to spending on 
     defense; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana (for himself, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Delaney, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Esty, Mr. Foster, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. Keating, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Lynch, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nadler, 
             Mr. Neal, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. Panetta, Mr. 
             Peters, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Raskin, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Schneider, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Veasey, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             Mr. Welch, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Khanna, and 
             Ms. Slaughter):
       H. Res. 136. A resolution expressing the sense of the 
     Congress that lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender 
     individuals should be protected from discrimination under the 
     law; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Chabot, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Costa, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Evans, Mr. Foster, Ms. Frankel of Florida, 
             Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Gottheimer, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. King of New York, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Lowey, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Meng, Mr. Moulton, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Rokita, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schneider, Mr. 
             Sires, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Titus, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, and Mr. Zeldin):
       H. Res. 137. A resolution honoring the life of Shimon 
     Peres; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. LoBiondo, and Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington):
       H. Res. 138. A resolution recognizing the 40th anniversary 
     of the founding of the Professional Aviation Safety 
     Specialists; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H. Res. 139. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week beginning on February 19, 2017, as 
     ``American Birkebeiner Week''; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Pocan, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Evans, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Meeks, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Cleaver, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Mrs. Demings, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Kelly 
             of Illinois, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Richmond, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mr. McGovern, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Crowley, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Meng, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. 
             Barragan, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. 
             Fudge, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Bass, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Clay, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. Levin, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Espaillat, and Mr. Pallone):
       H. Res. 140. A resolution condemning the appointment of 
     Steve Bannon to the National Security Council and urging his 
     immediate removal; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Foreign Affairs, and 
     Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself and Mr. Crowley):
       H. Res. 141. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of International Mother Language Day in bringing attention to 
     the importance of preserving linguistic and cultural heritage 
     through education; to the

[[Page H1303]]

     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H. Res. 142. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week of October 29 through November 4, 
     2017, as ``National Obesity Care Week''; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Gabbard, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Ms. Matsui, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Peters, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Soto, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, and Mr. Vargas):
       H. Res. 143. A resolution recognizing the significance of 
     the 75th anniversary of the signing of Executive Order 9066 
     by President Franklin D. Roosevelt and supporting the goals 
     of the Japanese American, German American, and Italian 
     American communities in recognizing a National Day of 
     Remembrance to increase public awareness of the events 
     surrounding the restriction, exclusion, and incarceration of 
     individuals and families during World War II; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Al Green of Texas, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Peters, Ms. Speier, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H. Res. 144. A resolution recognizing the importance of 
     establishing a national ``Fred Korematsu Day of Civil 
     Liberties and the Constitution''; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Engel, 
             Mr. McCaul, Mr. Sires, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Poe of Texas, 
             and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H. Res. 145. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the fight against corruption in 
     Central America; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



