

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S112-S113]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
       S. 32. A bill to provide for conservation, enhanced 
     recreation opportunities, and development of renewable energy 
     in the California Desert Conservation Area, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. 
             Daines, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Heller, Mr. Flake, Mr. Lee, 
             Mr. McCain, Mr. Risch, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Tillis, Mr. 
             McConnell, Mr.

[[Page S113]]

             Blunt, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Cruz, Mrs. 
             Capito, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Cassidy, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Cochran, Mr. 
             Rounds, and Mr. Barrasso):
       S. 33. A bill to provide for congressional approval of 
     national monuments and restrictions on the use of national 
     monuments, to establish requirements for the declaration of 
     marine national monuments, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. JOHNSON:
       S. 34. A bill to amend chapter 8 of title 5, United States 
     Code, to provide for the en bloc consideration in resolutions 
     of disapproval for ``midnight rules'', and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Rounds, and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 35. A bill to transfer administrative jurisdiction over 
     certain Bureau of Land Management land from the Secretary of 
     the Interior to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for 
     inclusion in the Black Hills National Cemetery, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Cruz, Mr. 
             Cotton, and Mr. Boozman):
       S. 36. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act 
     to provide for extensions of detention of certain aliens 
     ordered removed, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Sasse, 
             Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Thune, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Moran, Mr. 
             Cruz, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Wicker, and Mr. 
             Cassidy):
       S. 37. A bill to require U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement to take into custody certain aliens who have been 
     charged in the United States with a crime that resulted in 
     the death or serious bodily injury of another person, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 38. A bill to decrease the cost of hiring, and increase 
     the take-home pay of, Puerto Rican workers; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr. Daines):
       S. 39. A bill to extend the Federal recognition to the 
     Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Montana, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 40. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health 
     coverage; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. King, Mr. Brown, Mr. Leahy, 
             Mr. Franken, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 41. A bill to amend part D of title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to negotiate covered part D drug prices on behalf of 
     Medicare beneficiaries; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 42. A bill to inspire women to enter the aerospace 
     field, including science, technology, engineering, and 
     mathematics, through mentorship and outreach; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 43. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     permit individuals eligible for Indian Health Service 
     assistance to qualify for health savings accounts; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 44. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 
     to improve nonretaliation provisions relating to equal pay 
     requirements; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Grassley, Mr. 
             Johnson, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Sasse, Mr. 
             Wicker, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 45. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act 
     to increase penalties for individuals who illegally reenter 
     the United States after being removed and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Mr. Blunt, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 46. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to strengthen intensive cardiac rehabilitations programs 
     under the Medicare program; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mrs. Fischer, and Mr. 
             Moran):
       S. 47. A bill to prevent proposed regulations relating to 
     restrictions on liquidation of an interest with respect to 
     estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer taxes from 
     taking effect; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. 
             Leahy):
       S. 48. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     allow a credit against income tax for the purchasing of 
     hearing aids; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 49. A bill to provide a leasing program within the 
     Coastal Plain, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 50. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     allow refunds for Federal motor fuel excise taxes on fuels 
     used in mobile mammography vehicles; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. 
             McConnell, Mr. Lee, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Moran, Mr. Roberts, 
             Mr. Shelby, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Hatch, and 
             Mr. Cotton):
       S. 51. A bill to make habitual drunk drivers inadmissible 
     and removable and to require the detention of any alien who 
     is unlawfully present in the United States and has been 
     charged with driving under the influence or driving while 
     intoxicated; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Cruz, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 52. A bill to make aliens associated with a criminal 
     gang inadmissible, deportable, and ineligible for various 
     forms of relief; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Sullivan, and Mr. 
             Schatz):
       S. 53. A bill to authorize and strengthen the tsunami 
     detection, forecast, warning, research, and mitigation 
     program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Markey, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Merkley, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 54. A bill to prohibit the creation of an immigration-
     related registry program that classifies people on the basis 
     of religion, race, age, gender, ethnicity, national origin, 
     nationality, or citizenship; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
       S. 55. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to 
     conduct a special resource study of Fort Ontario in the State 
     of New York; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN:
       S. 56. A bill to require each agency to repeal or amend 2 
     or more rules before issuing or amending a rule; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Grassley, 
             Mr. Daines, Mr. Flake, and Mr. Johnson):
       S. 57. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to revoke bonuses paid to employees involved in electronic 
     wait list manipulations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



