

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S276]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINTRESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent,and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. McCain, Mr. 
             Menendez,Mr. Graham, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Rubio, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Durbin, and Mr.Portman):
       S. 94. A bill to impose sanctions in response to cyber 
     intrusions by the Governmentof the Russian Federation and 
     other aggressive activities of the Russian Federation, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee onForeign Relations.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Ms. Cortez Masto):
       S. 95. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to obtain 
     the consent of affected State and local governmentsbefore 
     making an expenditure from the Nuclear Waste Fund for a 
     nuclear waste repository; to the Committee on Environment 
     andPublic Works.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Thune, and Mr. 
             Tester):
       S. 96. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     ensure the integrity of voicecommunications and to prevent 
     unjust or unreasonable discrimination among areas of the 
     United States in the delivery of suchcommunications; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CRAPO (forhimself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Risch, Mr. Hatch, Ms. Murkowski, and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 97. A bill to enable civilian research and development 
     of advanced nuclear energy technologiesby private and public 
     institutions, to expand theoretical and practical knowledge 
     of nuclear physics, chemistry, and materialsscience, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. DAINES(for himself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 98. A bill to reduce a portion of the annual pay of 
     Membersof Congress for the failure to adopt a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget which does not provide for a 
     balanced budget, and forother purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr.ALEXANDER:
       S. 99. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior to 
     study the suitabilityand feasibility of designating the 
     President James K. Polk Home in Columbia, Tennessee, as a 
     unit of the National Park System,and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER:
       S. 100. A bill to modify the boundary of the Shiloh 
     National Military Park located in the Statesof Tennessee and 
     Mississippi, to establish the Parker's Crossroads Battlefield 
     as an affiliated area of the National ParkSystem, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms.MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 101. A bill to provide for the exchangeof Federal land 
     and non-Federal land in the State of Alaska for the 
     construction of a road between King Cove and Cold Bay; tothe 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Booker,Mr. Thune, Mr. 
             Rubio, and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 102. A bill to direct the FederalCommunications 
     Commission to commence proceedings related to the resiliency 
     of critical communications networks during times ofemergency, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr.LEE (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 103. A bill to nullify certain regulations andnotices of 
     the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     andUrban Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Rubio, Mr.Blumenthal, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 104. A bill to provide for the vacating of 
     certainconvictions and expungement of certain arrests of 
     victims of human trafficking; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. 
             Barrasso):
       S. 105. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial Protection 
     Act of 2010 to transition the Bureau of Consumer 
     FinancialProtection to a 5-member board of directors; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Lee, Mr. Rubio, and Mr. 
             Paul):
       S. 106. Abill to repeal the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education 
     Reconciliation Act of 2010entirely; to the Committee on 
     Finance.

                          ____________________



