

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 43 (Monday, March 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 43 (Monday, March 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2058-H2059]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

                       [Submitted March 13, 2017]

           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mr. Loebsack):
       H.R. 1511. A bill to amend the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
     Assistance Act to meet the needs of homeless children, youth, 
     and families, and honor the assessments and priorities of 
     local communities; to the Committee on Financial Services, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MARCHANT (for himself, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Smith of 
             Missouri, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1512. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for the reissuance of Social Security account 
     numbers to young children in cases where confidentiality has 
     been compromised; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, and Mr. Renacci):
       H.R. 1513. A bill to restrict the inclusion of social 
     security account numbers on documents sent by mail by the 
     Social Security Administration, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BORDALLO:
       H.R. 1514. A bill to provide reforms through the Organic 
     Act of Guam; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself, Mr. Meehan, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Norcross, 
             Ms. Norton, Ms. Speier, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Meng, Mr. Quigley, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             Mr. Donovan, and Mr. Ted Lieu of California):
       H.R. 1515. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the exclusion of individuals from service on a 
     Federal jury on account of sexual orientation or gender 
     identity; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Esty, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Courtney, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Takano, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Lynch, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. 
             Titus, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. 
             Bera, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan 
             of New Mexico, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Walz, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Levin, 
             Ms. Moore, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Matsui, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Langevin, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Ms. Frankel of Florida, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Cardenas, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney 
             of New York, Ms. Speier, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Aguilar, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Norton, Ms. DelBene, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Kildee, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Ms. Meng, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Polis, 
             Mr. McNerney, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Foster, Mr. Thompson of California, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Peters, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Fudge, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 1516. A bill to allow Americans to earn paid sick time 
     so that they can address their own health needs and the 
     health needs of their families; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on House 
     Administration, and Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 1517. A bill to require the Governor of a State to 
     submit to the Attorney General an annual report on the number 
     of individuals who represented themselves in court in 
     criminal matters or juvenile delinquency matters, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr. Heck):
       H.R. 1518. A bill to establish the Maritime Washington 
     National Heritage Area in the State of Washington, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 1519. A bill to provide for the publication by the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services of physical activity 
     recommendations for Americans; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.

[[Page H2059]]

  

           By Mr. KIND:
       H.R. 1520. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide for the admission of certain sons and 
     daughters of citizens of the United States, which citizens 
     served on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United 
     States abroad, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MEEKS:
       H.R. 1521. A bill to amend the Fair Debt Collection 
     Practices Act to extend the provisions of that Act to cover a 
     debt collector who is collecting debt owed to a State or 
     local government, to index award amounts under such Act for 
     inflation, to provide for civil injunctive relief for 
     violations of such Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. MEEKS:
       H.R. 1522. A bill to amend the Equal Credit Opportunity Act 
     and the Fair Housing Act to amend the statute of limitations 
     for civil liability, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 1523. A bill to assign the responsibility for 
     conducting prosecutions for violations of the laws of the 
     District of Columbia to the head of a local prosecutor's 
     office designated under local law of the District of 
     Columbia; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. 
             Pascrell):
       H.R. 1524. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the financing of the Superfund; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Mr. McKinley, 
             Mr. Brat, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Luetkemeyer, and Mr. Bost):
       H.R. 1525. A bill to prohibit Federal officials and 
     employees from entering into settlements that provide for 
     payment of attorney's fees by the Federal Government in 
     certain environmental law cases; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, Natural Resources, and 
     Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. WELCH:
       H.R. 1526. A bill to amend the FAA Modernization and Reform 
     Act of 2012 to provide guidance and limitations regarding the 
     integration of unmanned aircraft systems into United States 
     airspace, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr. Faso, Mr. Katko, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Mast, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Meehan, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Reichert, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Reed, Mr. Bacon, Mrs. Love, and 
             Mr. Amodei):
       H. Res. 195. A resolution expressing the commitment of the 
     House of Representatives to conservative environmental 
     stewardship; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Tonko, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Stewart, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             McNerney, Mr. Quigley, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Ms. Lee, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Mrs. Torres):
       H. Res. 196. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of March 14, 2017, as ``National Pi Day''; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. KILDEE (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Trott, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Levin, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Moolenaar, and Mr. 
             Conyers):
       H. Res. 197. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the President and the Secretary of 
     State should ensure that the Canadian Government does not 
     permanently store nuclear waste in the Great Lakes Basin; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



