

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H88-H93]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1700
                            DOUBLE STANDARDS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Arrington). Under the Speaker's 
announced policy of January 3, 2017, the gentleman fromTexas (Mr. 
Gohmert) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader.
  Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to get to come into this 
hallowed Hall and to have a chance to address ourpeers.
  It was a rather enjoyable day yesterday, even with all the vitriol, 
but I was reminded and couldn't help butreminisce a bit and walk a bit 
down memory lane yesterday as we heard from Members of the House on the 
other side of the aisleexpressing repeatedly a desire to have open 
debate and not shut off debate.
  The reminiscing took me back to a time last yearwhen, as far as we 
could find, the only time in American history one party in the United 
States Congress physically preventedanother party from coming to the 
floor and going into session and trying to begin debate and trying to 
discuss the business ofthe day. We can't find that any party ever 
staged such a sit-in.
  We know there are House rules about not eating on the Housefloor and 
about not having things to drink on the House floor other than water, 
and yet our friends across the aisle were eatingand drinking. It is 
actually a violation of the House rules to sing on the House floor. 
Every now and then, people look theother way from the violation, but 
certainly not to take pictures and broadcast.
  I approached the Sergeant at Arms and askedhim why this wasn't 
stopped.
  I was told: Well, they won't stop; we have told them repeatedly.
  I said: Well, you won'tlet Republicans get away with this kind of 
conduct. They are preventing debate. They are preventing a session from 
startingtimely. This has been going on for hours.
  I was told: Well, Congressman, when we tell you Republicans that you 
are violatinga rule, you stop and you follow the rules. We have told 
them repeatedly, and they will not stop violating the rules. They 
willnot stop preventing you from going into session, so we don't know 
what else to do.
  Mr. Speaker, I had issues like that whenI was a felony judge, and 
they didn't last long because we had bailiffs who would drag people out 
to stop such inappropriateconduct. It just seemed that, in this 
potentially last bastion of civility where we can use words and debate 
issues, it israther ironic, to say the least, to be preached to 
repeatedly about the desire for open debate and the desire to not be 
shutdown from speaking when that is exactly what happened last year by 
the very people who were standing up, and some of them werereading a 
script pointing out how offended they were by being prevented by the 
rules under which we have been proceeding fromgoing forward and 
debating. So it is rather ironic and rather incredible actually.
  I also recall back when we were debatingObamaCare and some of us 
wanted to get amendments into ObamaCare. Of course, some of us remember 
the fact that John Dingell waschairman of the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce that had jurisdiction over the healthcare debate and the 
healthcare bill. Hehas been working for a healthcare bill, something 
like what passed, for all of his time, as I am aware of, in the House.
  Iwas told by someone that his father may have worked for the same 
bill for years. So that was something that was going to be acrowning 
glory for an incredibly honorable man. We see differently on many 
issues, but I know him to be an honest and honorableman. His word has 
always been good. When he has given it, it was always the way it is. I 
have great respect for him.
  Anyway,he understood that the cap-and-trade bill that was being 
pushed here in the House by then-Speaker Pelosi was going tounduly harm 
the Nation's poor more than anybody else in the country. If you are 
very rich, if you are on Wall Street, you arefriends of the Obama 
administration, and you have gotten $656 million in grants to open a 
non-carbon-based energy facility, youare not worried about the price of 
anything because your friends in the Obama administration were giving 
you millions andbillions of dollars that you could fritter away as you 
wished.
  But for our Nation's middle class, lower middle class, andpoor that 
don't have the ability to absorb increasing energy costs, the cap-and-
trade bill would have been devastating. That iswhy, when John Dingell 
was asked about the cap-and-trade bill, he responded something to the 
effect that it is not only a tax,it is a great big tax, it will 
unfairly hit the poor, and he was not going to bring that bill out of 
committee. So SpeakerPelosi, at that time, took whatever actions were 
required to remove him as chair and replace him with Henry Waxman.
  Chairman Waxman made clear: We don't need your votes; we don't want 
your input; so we don't care what you want in thehealthcare bill.
  Joe Barton, the longest serving Texan in the House right now, had 
indicated, as a former chair of thatsame committee, that it is 
interesting if

[[Page H89]]

John Dingell--the consummate professional and honorable man that he 
is--had beenallowed to remain as chairman of that committee, he would 
have instinctively gotten Republican input into that bill and 
includedthings in the bill that Republicans would have had a hard time 
voting against. If he had been allowed to remain as chairman ofthe 
Energy and Commerce Committee, John Dingell would have probably been 
able to get a bill through that would not even be takenup by this body 
to be repealed and ripped out by its roots.
  Hopefully that is what we are going to be able to do with 
theextremely partisan bill. There were groups that were telling 
Republicans: Look, of course we are negotiating with the 
Obamaadministration. We have got to have a seat at the table.
  I would tell them: Not when you are on the menu.
  But there weregroups like the Big Pharma, like the American Hospital 
Association, the AMA, and some of the health insurance businesses 
thatended up getting behind it. Of course, AARP totally sold out 
retired folks because they were going to makehundreds of millions--
billions perhaps--more than they would have without ObamaCare being 
passed. They had no interest insupporting a bill like I proposed that 
would have ended any need for a senior citizen to ever have to pay for 
supplementalinsurance on top of Medicare; they would have been totally 
covered.

  But I didn't realize, at the time I asked them tosupport it in 2009, 
that the year before they had made, I think, over $400 million or so in 
profit as a nonprofit organizationon getting their members to buy their 
insurance that they had sponsored and put their mark of approval on.
  So anyway, therewere people that were going to make a lot of money. 
But I could see that in the end it would probably spell the doom of 
thepharmaceutical industry. Yes, it would be years down the road; yes, 
there would be executives at pharmaceutical companies whowould see 
massive billions of dollars come in more than would have otherwise; 
and, yes, they would likely take their goldenparachutes and their 
millions in severance in retirement and be gone before they were 
relegated to perhaps producing medicationswithout getting reimbursement 
for research and development. This is the way this whole ObamaCare 
thing would have eventuallyplayed out, and still they got on board with 
ObamaCare because they were going to make short-term extra billions of 
dollars.
  So having all of that in mind, as it has all appeared to me, it had 
just been astounding to be here yesterday and hear allthe comments 
about the inability to have open debate.
  I have talked to numerous friends across the aisle who were 
greatlytroubled over the last 6 years. Actually, the Office of 
Congressional Ethics was started by Speaker Pelosi. You are allowedto 
file complaints without anybody knowing who filed the complaint. The 
OCE is then able to go after a Member of Congress andstart demanding 
things that they could not possibly be entitled to under the 
Constitution if a Member of Congress were gettingdue process.
  I haven't been run through the ringer like so many have. But when you 
set up a process like that, and you havethe Office of Congressional 
Ethics set up, they have no one at all to whom they are accountable--no 
one--and they are encouraged,even if they filed the complaints 
themselves, to enable them to continue to grow from the little office 
they had over here inthe Longworth Building. I am told they have a 
massive amount of space in one of the big Federal buildings now, and 
they continueto grow. So apparently, they were offended that their 
budget was cut and they were put under the Ethics Committee so that 
theywould have some accountability. There were an awful lot of great 
people--good friends--across the country that did not know abouthow 
unconstitutionally they had been acting--I mean more abusive even than 
the IRS at times from the reports of some of mycolleagues to me of what 
they have been through.
  I stand here, Mr. Speaker, as a judge who has had to look people in 
the eyeand sentence them to death--something that is never taken 
lightly. I may be the only person here in Congress who has ever 
lookedsomeone in the eye and sentenced them to death and been appointed 
as counsel against my wishes to represent an indigentdefendant on 
appeal from a capital murder conviction under sentence of death and was 
able, appropriately, to have his casereversed and to save his life as 
the law should have been. So I feel rather strongly that, yes, people 
should be accountable,but they must have due process, and that is not 
what is provided for by the OCE.

                              {time}  1715

  Wonderful people, including our incoming President, were not aware of 
just how crazy the abuses have been.One of the Members was telling me 
yesterday that he was out about half a million dollars in attorney's 
fees responding toridiculous demands and still never got to know who 
the accuser was. You don't get to necessarily even see what the 
specificcomplaint is.
  So we didn't do a good job of educating people of how grossly unfair 
the OCE process was, could be, buteverybody in Congress, the judiciary, 
and executive branch needs someone to whom they are accountable, and 
that would includethe OCE.
  We have got to do something about this, but we do need to go about it 
in an appropriate way to make sure that, onceagain, justice is done. 
But when you hear ``ethics watchdog group,'' then immediately you 
think, Gee, they are going to stop anethics watchdog group? That is 
outrageous. That is what I would think if I didn't know all the 
background.
  So it made for aninteresting day yesterday, but I have been amazed, 
though, that some who have told me that they wanted to eliminate the 
OCE whostand up on the other side of the aisle and preach about ethics, 
apparently referring to the effort to place OCE and make 
themaccountable under somebody for a change--in this case, under the 
Ethics Committee--and would demagogue the issue, in essence, whenthey 
have been mistreated by the OCE, according to what I have been told by 
them in the past.
  So I think if we can just setthe politics aside and work together for 
appropriate due process, we can have a bipartisan group that could work 
out somethingthat would create due process and would make people 
accountable so that when you have somebody with $90,000 of cold, hard 
cashin their freezer, there is accountability. In that case, it was a 
crime and it needed to be addressed. So there does need to 
beaccountability.
  I know we have friends here. I saw my friend, Steve King, at the back 
just a moment ago. We feelstrongly that when a Federal judge 
intentionally refuses to go along with what they know the Constitution 
says, that ought to bean impeachable offense. They are not keeping 
their oath, and that is as offensive as anything is when it comes from 
a judge.They ought to be able to impeach a judge like that.
  I don't think we have done enough removal, impeachment of judges 
whohave violated their oath. Yes, we were removing a judge who had 
committed sexual assault. Well, that should have been a no-brainer, but 
that took literally an act of Congress to eventually get that done.
  For another judge, it was not until weactually impeached him for his 
terribly inappropriate actions of suppressing information when he was 
being investigated forbeing a Federal judge, but from his days as a 
State judge. Apparently, as a State judge, he didn't have a problem, if 
tuitionwas due for his son, to just send the secretary or somebody to 
one of the law offices which he often appoints and then have themfill 
up the envelope with a bunch of cash and use that to pay his son's 
tuition. That didn't seem to be a problem for thatjudge. Those are all 
things that should have been appropriately taken into account before he 
was ever made a Federal judge.
  I see my friend here on the floor. I yield to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. LaMalfa).
  Mr. LaMALFA. I was listening to the gentleman's remarks on a couple 
of these topics here that are veryimportant.
  He led off with the situation that occurred with the sit-in that 
occurred here on this House floor last year,some months ago, and I 
found that to be very appalling for the decorum, for

[[Page H90]]

the honor, for the history, for all the thingsthat are important about 
conducting ourselves in a society where order is needed in order to 
conduct business.
  This Housefloor was not treated with that respect that is necessary 
to have order, to have an honest debate, and a debate that 
isconstructive when you have a sit-in like that where basically the 
folks on the other side of the aisle--some of them--decided totake over 
the entire building outside of session, outside of the rules. As Mr. 
Gohmert mentioned, many rules were violated.
  I had the appalling experience of walking on the floor just a few 
minutes after they concluded their sit-in and, honestly,the garbage 
that was laying on the floor. I saw food crumbs, old newspapers, 
magazines, a couple of blankets. They didn't evenpick up after 
themselves. They expected the staff of the building to pick it up and 
haul it off for them because their OccupyWall Street moment was over 
with. This is not the sixties. This is not the hippy era. This is the 
United States House ofRepresentatives.
  This week, rules were proposed that say, when you violate rules in 
such a fashion where videotaping orPeriscoping, as they call it, is 
occurring--sending these speeches during a nonofficial, non-session 
time, basically bootleggingthem to the American public via C-SPAN; and 
I am a little annoyed with C-SPAN actually playing along with the 
violation ofHouse rules of piping this out the way they did.
  If you want to have a protest out on the front lawn, fine. That is 
withinthe rights of free speech, the First Amendment, and all that. You 
don't do it in violation of the rules of a fairly, some mightsay, 
sacred place--this House floor--the way that happened then. For them to 
be piping it out live that way, I found it to becompletely wrong.
  There are those folks that might say: Well, this is all First 
Amendment rights, not in violation of thedecorum of the House rules. So 
I am glad Mr. Gohmert brought that up. Rules are put in place this week 
to address peoplethat are going to violate the very House rules that 
help us keep order and do business of the American public. We lost part 
of,I think, three session days that we could have been grinding out the 
important business that the people expect of this country.
  We lost that session time and, indeed, had to come in here and the 
Speaker or whoever wasintroducing legislation that day had to yell over 
the process here to do things in order for the House. I find that 
appalling.It isn't very mature. I think with some of the penalties that 
are put in place by the rules this week, there will be a littlemore 
accountability for that.

  Mr. GOHMERT. I recall being told when that was going on and afterit 
happened that Republicans should not respond, and that we were assured 
that people who violated the rules back then would bepunished. Well, 
adopting rules now, specific penalties, don't really punish people that 
violated those very rules last year.
  So I am surprised that there is any complaint at all since basically 
it means people who violated the rule with such abandonwould complain 
about inserting a specific penalty now, meaning they got a free one. 
They didn't even get probation. They gotnothing. They got pardoned, 
basically.
  Perhaps it is not too late for those that feel like putting a penalty 
in place now isunfair. I don't think it is too late. It is not unusual 
to have punishment assessed in a felony case 6 months or more after 
anevent. Perhaps if they think it is unfair, then we ought to have 
ethics hearings on what happened back then.
  I haven't heardof the OCE, by the way, taking any action on such 
widespread abuse that didn't require investigation. All you needed was 
footagethat was being streamed out from the very violators of the 
rules. So it should have been an easy thing to pursue, if OCE 
werereally that interested in making sure our rules were not violated.
  I yield to my friend.
  Mr.LaMALFA. It wouldn't be inappropriate since OCE is a hot topic 
this week.
  The accountability goes both directions. Sowe have heard our 
colleagues talk about unjust charges that can be brought from anywhere, 
out of the blue, against a Member ofthe House without justification, 
without even a due process for that Member to have a chance to address 
directly what thatcharge is, and then have their name run through the 
newspaper, giant headlines, and maybe a year's worth of investigation.
  When you see it, Congressman being investigated, well, that is an 
ugly headline. It can be used to manipulate it forpolitical purpose 
when it might be a trumped-up charge, something that has no merit, and 
many times talking to my colleaguesthat have faced this, hundreds of 
thousands of dollars of cost to them for attorney's fees, their 
reputation besmirched by this,when, really, there is an investigative 
process that is open, with oversight.
  Now we didn't have the perfect piece oflegislation in the rule this 
week. No. We probably need a little more time for it to be aired out 
and a little more widely. Itwas withdrawn after at least getting the 
idea out on the table.
  So I am proud of my colleagues who are going to take this upand work 
in a bipartisan fashion and get the input to make some needed reforms 
to the OCE so that we have an ethics process thatis fair to the 
Members, but obviously enforces ethics for this House that are needed 
and clearly demanded by the public and us.
  We are talking here tonight about a decorum, a code, a process that 
our House is to be conducted by. So that sit-in is oneextreme. The 
other one is charges that are, in many cases, absolved months later 
without giant headlines but are not evensometimes an oops or I am sorry 
for trumped-up charges being brought up against somebody that would 
affect them negatively intheir ability to serve their districts or to 
fend off the huge costs of legal matters that they have to go through.
  So manyof my colleagues here strongly care and want to have a strong 
ethical process in this place, but there needs to beaccountability and 
balance to it. That is what we are all looking forward to, is 
accountability with OCE and our EthicsCommittee who, in a bipartisan 
fashion, can weed through all these processes.
  I think we will get to that. For those thatare concerned around this 
country that some here want to get rid of that ethics process, that 
absolutely couldn't be furtherfrom the truth. We all demand that with 
the code of conduct of this House, on the floor and off, of our 
Members.
  Mr. GOHMERT. I thank my friend, Mr. LaMalfa for great insights. Such 
truth.
  I also wasjust advised this afternoon that the EPA, apparently in 
accordance with some frenzied effort to have this administration put 
asproblematic regulations in place to stifle the economy, stifle and 
skyrocket further costs of energy, has apparently givennotice to all 
gas operators that they have 60 days to comply.
  One such operator in Texas was saying the date on the noticesays it 
was received December 15, but he was out of the country. Somebody in 
the building accepted it. The date for the 60-daycompliance kicks in 
January 18, 2 days before President-elect Donald Trump would be able to 
strike such an arbitrary andcapricious regulation down.

                              {time}  1730

  Apparently, they must have backdatedthe 60-day compliance before they 
ever got notice saying you have got until January 18 to comply. So what 
we have heard from somany small-business owners, they get notices like 
this: You have all of a sudden got to comply. You have got to give us 
allthese records, those records.
  It has cost them a fortune. It has stifled their ability to expand 
their business and hiremore people and give more people opportunity and 
give more people opportunity to make more money than they had been 
making.Those have been so completely stifled by this administration. I 
understand there was a political article glorifying the greatefforts of 
the Obama administration in helping the economy, and to justify that, 
took one quarter out of, I guess--four timeseight--32 quarters and 
said, ``Look what they did in this one quarter,'' when actually, as I 
understood, if you take the wholeterm that we have numbers on and 
adjust the growth for inflation, President Obama's administration, his 
policies,

[[Page H91]]

his cronycapitalism, helping people with no-bid contracts like IBM, 
giving $1.6 billion to this company to create mirrors to heat waterand 
however much it was, hundreds of millions for Solyndra--there are just 
so many companies. They have squandered so much money.And yet, with all 
the money squandered, the economy grew, when adjusted for inflation, at 
about half the growth rate during theJimmy Carter administration.
  Now, I understand this administration is extremely proud of what they 
accomplished, but I wouldhumbly submit, Mr. Speaker, if your policies 
cause the economy to grow at half the rate of the Jimmy Carter 
administration, youhave done more damage to the American people and the 
American economy than you have done good, and that is for sure. And 
that isat a time when, scientifically, we were having such 
breakthroughs that we found out we could actually be totally 
energyindependent if this administration had not been spending so much 
money on too expensive of sources of energy and all the otherthings 
this administration supported.
  We had a hearing in Chairman Rob Bishop's Committee on Natural 
Resources in ourSubcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, a hearing 
on some of the abuses. I know there are legitimate groups and 
businessesthat have invested in this idea of having this fantastic 
carbon-free energy production out in California, and, yes, it took 
amassive amount of acreage. I believe it was Federal land that they 
were allowed to use. I believe. I am not certain.
  I wasintrigued, they were going to create all these mirrors that 
would reflect the Sun's light in concentrated amounts towards 
threedifferent towers, and the towers would then be superheated, 
superheat the water, turn the water to steam. The steam would 
turnturbines that would produce electricity. If I recall correctly, 
they got $1.6 billion in government loan; and to help them maketheir 
loan payment, they got over $600 million in grants.
  When I asked over this period of time that they have beenoperating 
how much of their $1.6 billion in government loan was paid back, I 
believe he said $6 million had been paid back from,it may have been, 
$656 million that they had given to them by this administration.
  But we also came to find out thatapparently there have been problems. 
One of the towers got super-superheated and was totaled, was destroyed 
because of themassive sunlight reflected and damaged to where it 
wouldn't function. Because, apparently, they had squandered so much of 
theirmoney, they had to find a cheap source, an extremely cheap source 
of energy because they had contracts to supply a certainamount of 
electricity. With the third tower not in operation, they were not able 
to supply over 30 percent of the energy theyhad contracted to provide. 
They very quickly, cheaply, efficiently built a natural gas electricity 
production plant, and, wow,apparently it is working great. Of course, 
anybody that studies natural gas understands, if they know what they 
are doing, thatnatural gas is an amazingly clean form of energy.
  Anyway, now about a third of the energy is being produced using 
naturalgas, when the whole purpose of the massive $1.6 billion in the 
government-backed loan and the $656 million or so that was givento them 
was because it was not going to be carbon based at all.
  But it is not just the one problem, apparently, of thetower. This is 
out in an arid area where there is not much water. Well, they didn't 
need much water other than what they had inthe towers, really; but what 
they didn't anticipate was something that I am told operators, others 
in the area refer to asflamers.
  Flamers, as I was given to understand, those are birds, perhaps some 
of them endangered species, that make themistake of flying through the 
superheated beam of sunlight and immediately explode or burst into 
flame. Apparently, if you are abird that gets superheated and explodes, 
bursts into flame, then masses of fluid keep covering the mirrors, 
which need to bekept clean.
  Normally, you would figure out in a desert or an arid area, you are 
not going to need to clean those mirrorsvery often, so you are not 
going to need much water. But then when it turns out you have got all 
these flamers that supercoatthe mirrors so they are constantly having 
to be recleaned, those poor birds that our nature-loving friends are 
exploding, it isrunning up the water bill as well because, gee, it is 
just not healthy to be exploding birds that fly through this 
superheatedbeam of sunlight.
  So 8 years of misguided policies have made, probably, a lot of 
Democratic millionaires, but the Americanpublic has suffered; and when 
adjusted for inflation, the American people are, on average, worse off.
  I was surprised to seea video where the President actually admitted, 
he had actually acknowledged, that in his administration, for the first 
time weare aware of in the history of the United States, 95 percent of 
the income in America went to the top 1 percent of the incomeearners. I 
have read articles since then about, actually, even that 1 percentthat 
was making 95 percent of the Nation's income, they still weren't 
making, many of them, quite as much as they had before,because that is 
what happens when you hurt and throttle down an economy, as has 
happened. We haven't really adjusted.

  Ofcourse, we have had the Fed that has had interest rates down to 
basically nothing, and it was clear they were doing everythingthey 
could to try to help the Obama administration's economy look better 
than it was. Now that people have started having hopebecause we have 
President-elect Trump and the policies are going to change 
dramatically, we are going to hopefully be completelyrid of, or as 
completely as possible, the crony capitalism. I know my colleagues here 
in the House, actually on both sides ofthe aisle, have made clear we 
want to stop crony capitalism, and I am looking forward to that 
stopping once we get out fromunder this administration.
  So the economy is showing great signs. I have got people back home 
telling me they are startingto hire again just based on the hope and 
the promise. President Obama was supposed to bring hope and change, but 
all myconstituents tell me so many of them are left with, after he has 
been President, a little change left from what they had when hetook 
office.
  But there is real hope, and people are gearing up to grow, and the 
economy should take off, and we should getenergy independent. I expect 
President-elect Trump to keep his promises. He assured me personally he 
was going to. So I amexpecting great things. But just on that, the 
economy has started going up, on the assurance that President Obama 
would not bearound any longer than January 20, and as a result now, the 
Fed finally has started increasing interest rates because they 
don'thave to artificially try to protect President Obama's reputation 
and his poor economy.
  So just the fact that the EPA wouldsend out regulations in such a 
capricious manner as they have, demanding that well operators start 
monitoring all theiremissions, something to that effect, I am looking 
forward to getting into it and just seeing how abusive the EPA has been 
asthese oligarchs. Not to give a chance for true input into an 
arbitrary and capricious rule, not to give businesses a chance toget 
ready and to adjust, I mean, this is the kind of thing that has stifled 
so much growth and has sent so many high school andcollege graduates to 
their parents' home.
  I think there are a lot of people who voted for President Obama and 
were excited.I think it is unfortunate that so many people expressed 
that they voted for a President because of his skin color--and I am 
nottalking about Donald Trump--that they made a racist vote to vote for 
a man who was not White so they could feel good about votingfor someone 
who was not White, where some of us--and it is one of the things for 
which I love Alveda King, Martin Luther King'sniece. I mean, she 
believes in his dream, and the Americans that voted for Donald Trump, 
they believe that skin color should notmatter. It is racist to vote for 
a candidate because of what his race is.
  Let's look at the character. Let's look at thequalifications. What 
have you built that you actually built that someone else didn't build 
for you? Let's look at those thingsand then make a determination rather 
than voting for

[[Page H92]]

someone just because of his race. Let's do as Martin Luther King, 
Jr.,was so profound in saying in looking forward to the day when people 
were judged by the content of their character rather thanthe color of 
their skin. I am looking forward to that day. That day has been set 
back tremendously.
  It was a highlight forme back at the end of the fall to go back to my 
hometown of Mount Pleasant, Texas. I had mentioned to a reporter 
sometime back,though I didn't vote for President Obama, I had hopes 
that he would do for America what Coach Willie Williams did for 
ourfootball team. Actually, I didn't say ``football team.'' I said 
``our team.''

                              {time}  1745

  Liberals immediately put up an article saying that I said my 
basketball coach, my favorite coach, wasAfrican American. Apparently, 
liberals think, if you are African American, you must be a coach of 
basketball because of yourrace. When actually, it was the year before I 
went to the varsity, I was on the junior varsity, and I enjoyed playing 
for CoachWilliams more than any coach I had ever played for.
  And unfortunately, Coach Williams' memory is still intact. I 
haven'tseen him in decades. But I was asked to come give a motivational 
talk for the team I played for--the Mount Pleasant Tigers. Itwas such a 
treat being with those players that morning. It had a rough year to 
that point. I got to be with them on the fieldduring the game. It was 
such a treat. Those young people were just inspirational. They fought 
hard, and some say it was the bestgame of the year. They won 
singlehandedly against a team from a bigger town than Mount Pleasant. 
They even gave me the gameball.
  And as much as that meant to me, the real highlight was, as we went 
into halftime, somebody told me that my old coach,back from over 40 
years ago, was up in the press box, and I got to go up. I was so 
thrilled to see him. We hugged and smiled bigas ever. I was so elated 
in seeing him and talking to him. Somebody said when I got back here--
when I said: I finally got to seeCoach Williams after all these years. 
It was wonderful.
  Well, did you get a picture?
  I didn't even think about apicture. That is not a very good 
politician. But I didn't think about a picture. But it is a shame.
  His memory is so goodbecause he remembered. We didn't have a lot of 
talent on that team. We didn't. He made us so cohesive. We played well 
together.We didn't have any outstanding talent, but we had a winning 
season. And it was a fun season because Coach Williams made it thatway. 
He inspired us together. Everybody got treated just the same. Nobody 
got special treatment. Nobody got treated more harshlythan anybody 
else. And we came together as a team.
  He remembered. He said: Yeah, you guys didn't have much talent on 
yourteam, but you played so well together. Well, that was because of 
him. He brought us together.
  And I so hoped that PresidentObama would do that for America. I 
didn't vote for him, but I thought it will be awesome if he can bring 
us even closertogether. And now at the end of his administration, it is 
so grievous that America seems more divided than ever.
  I see anarticle here about more police officers again being shot in 
our U.S. cities. I heard the former police chief, I believe, inChicago 
this week saying that Black Lives Matter was supposedly organized to 
try to stop killings of Black, especially young,men. And yet, what 
Black Lives Matter has done is actually increase the number of people 
being shot.
  I was absolutelyastounded to hear a quote from the President. A 
speech, apparently, he was making. I heard it on the radio. Maybe he 
was givingan interview. But he was saying that we know that cities that 
have more gun control laws just have less violence. That is 
calledgaslighting. That is called creating a fiction and trying to push 
it across and make somebody who knows the truth think thatthey are 
crazy and that this alternate truth is really what is going on.
  The fact is that cities with the most gun controllaws, like Chicago, 
for heaven's sakes--I mean, the hundreds of precious Black lives that 
have been taken, been killed, themassive gun control laws have not 
helped Chicago. They have got a massive number of gun control laws 
there than we do in anycity in east Texas, and yet nowhere in east 
Texas has that kind of violence at that percentage rate. It is insane.
  It istime to quit trying to gaslight the American people, convince 
them they are going crazy, and that what they know to be true 
isfiction. It is time to just have a truthful assessment of where we 
are. We need to follow the law. We need to have enforcementof our 
borders.
  We will continue to be the most generous Nation in the world, not 
just in giving funds to help others, notjust in giving lives of our 
citizens to help freedom for other countries like nowhere else in 
history, but also most generous inthe number of visas and the number of 
people that we allow to come into the United States and visit. Yet, 
that generosity hasbeen abused. As the border patrol has said, every 
time we hear somebody in the government in Washington say anything 
aboutlegalizing anything, or anybody that is here illegally, it is like 
a shiny object that draws even greater numbers illegallythrough our 
borders.
  And what is our border patrol ordered to do? Don't turn them back and 
prevent them from entering theUnited States. Oh, no. Let them step foot 
on American soil, then in-process them, and we will ship them around 
different places.Although, I saw an article last week where there were 
some aliens illegally here who were just dropped off at a bus stop.
  Ihave an article from Julia Edwards Ainsley, January 3, from Reuters: 
``Trump Team Seeks Agency Records on Border BarriersSurveillance.'' It 
is fantastic. I mean, here they are trying to gear up, yet they want to 
know information. They don't want tobe gaslighted. They want to know 
what is the truth so that they can start making hard preparations for 
taking office on January20.
  An article, December 30, from Paul Bedard from the Washington 
Examiner says that the Department of Homeland Securitysays 94 percent 
of deportations are people illegally here, terror threats, or gang 
bangers. The CBP--border patrol--reportsassaults on border agents have 
skyrocketed 231 percent in 2017.
  So not only has this President's rules of engagement gottenabout four 
times more Americans killed, our military members killed in 
Afghanistan, in the same amount of time as Commander inChief George W. 
Bush had, in addition to the rules of engagement getting our people 
killed four times faster than underCommander in Chief Bush, but also 
the assaults on our own agents have gone up 231 percent just in this 
year--in 1 year. We are getting our border patrol harmed.

  Another article by Chris Tomlinson in Breitbart: ``600 
`Underage'Migrants Turn Out to Be Adults.'' I mean, I have seen that in 
the middle of the night down on the border. People coming in,switching 
off Xeroxed indications they were going to use for their 
identification: This is who I am. For whatever reason, theywould look 
at their thing and switch out as to who was going to be who. They 
weren't able to vet those people, but they werestill ordered to in-
process them anyway.
  This article from Michael Patrick Leahy, December 7, reported that 
Somaliarefugees were arriving in the United States at the highest rate 
ever in the first two months of fiscal year 2017, which would beOctober 
and November. So just astounding when America was making very clear we 
need to protect American citizens. It is not justthe people in this 
room, as we did yesterday, who take that oath, but the President takes 
that oath. You have got cabinetmembers that take the oath, yet they are 
not doing their jobs. People are getting killed. 85,000 refugees under 
Obama, but lessthan 10 to the District of Columbia. So, apparently, 
let's put those refugees in your backyard. We certainly don't want them 
inWashington, D.C.'s backyard, apparently, according to this 
administration.
  Then it is pretty amazing, but just 10 Statesresettled more than half 
of recent refugees to the United States. Naturally, way more than 
anywhere else was California andTexas. The Daily Caller reported that 
the ``State Department claims no one used sham visas from fake 
embassy.'' Yet, we haveseen hundreds and hundreds of people that--the 
report showed--had been

[[Page H93]]

given citizenship by mistake when they were supposedto have been 
deported. It doesn't seem like a very innocent mistake when it is that 
egregious.
  Back in December, TheWashington Times reported that the ``Obama 
administration fails to check immigrants against FBI databases, 
approvescitizenship'' anyway.
  The Afghan refugee program has not been totally successful. A report 
here, Afghan refugee in Decemberwas arrested for rape and murder of a 
top EU official's daughter. So, apparently, that was not working out so 
well. But that wasin the country of Germany where you have a like-
minded leader in Angela Merkel, who wants to defeat terrorism, as our 
Presidentdoes, with love and compassion. Well, love is a stronger 
emotion than hate. Love can overcome evil.
  But when people arereligiously dedicated to wiping another group of 
people off the planet for what they deem to be their holy god, those 
are peoplethat have to be defeated. They are at war with you. You 
defeat them militarily. That puts radical Islam back in a box until 
someother well-meaning fool like former President Carter--a fine man, 
just a foolish President--not demeaning his character, but hewas just 
very foolish--in citing the Ayatollah Khomeini as a man of peace, as he 
was so welcoming in the Ayatollah Khomeinitaking over Iran. That 
released radical Islam out of the box, gave them control of a major 
country, major country military, andthousands and thousands and 
thousands of people continue to die because of that mistake.
  We know going back to the earlydays of the United States when so much 
of the Federal Treasury was used to pay ransom to get our sailors back 
who were beingcaptured by radical Islamists in North Africa, and 
Jefferson couldn't understand why they kept attacking American boats.

                              {time}  1800

  He asked the Islamist whom he was negotiating with why they 
keptattacking American ships. We are not a threat to you. We don't even 
have a Navy.
  Reportedly, the response was, in essence:Look, if we die, in 
attacking someone like you, we go straight to paradise.
  Jefferson was amazed. He couldn't believe therewas a world religion--
or even people's interpretation of a world religion--that advocated 
that you could go to paradise forkilling innocent people. Of course, 
they maintained they are not innocent because they don't believe 
exactly like the radicalIslamists believe.
  President Obama basically did the same thing with Libya. Qadhafi was 
not a good man; but, since 2003, thereports were clear, as others in 
North Africa and the Middle East reported, that he was about the best 
friend that the UnitedStates had in helping to fight terrorism in that 
area; yet this administration took him out. There were times on this 
floor thatI and others were begging the administration not to take out 
Qadhafi, not to keep helping the rebels, not to keep bombingQadhafi's 
troops until we knew how extensive al Qaeda was. We knew that at least 
a part of the people fighting were radicalIslamists, but the 
administration went on and turned the country into chaos.
  Thank God America is going to have a newadministration before we 
completely go to chaos ourselves.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



