

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H749-H750]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    HONORING THE LIFE OF LEWIS ODOM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Byrne) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life of a 
community leader, public servant, proud veteran, personal mentor, and 
great American, Lewis Odom.
  Lewis Odom lived a life many strive to emulate, a life filled with 
purpose, integrity, and selfless commitment to those around him. He had 
such a genuine impact on my life and the lives of so many others.
  From a young age, Lewis held himself to a standard of excellence. 
Upon graduation from high school, Lewis enlisted in the U.S. Navy 
Reserve and was selected to join the prestigious V-12 Naval College 
Training Program during World War II and thereafter. Through this 
program, he attended Millsaps College and Tulane University and went on 
to serve in the Navy aboard the USS Mississippi.
  After serving, Lewis continued his education at the University of 
Alabama where he received a law degree, and, soon after, commissioned 
as a first lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force in 1951, serving as a legal 
officer in Korea.
  Lewis Odom's career of service was only just beginning when he left 
the military. His hard work and integrity as a lawyer were recognized 
as he became the general counsel of the U.S. Senate Small Business 
Committee. He would go on to serve as administrative assistant to 
Alabama Senator John Sparkman before being named staff director and 
counsel for the Senate Banking Committee. He played a critical role in 
shaping many of our Nation's financial regulations during this 
important time period.
  Probably one of his most memorable accomplishments during his career 
on Capitol Hill was to plan and organize the inauguration ceremony for 
President John F. Kennedy. He often spoke of the great challenge and 
honor of that job.
  Following his time on Capitol Hill, he served as deputy to the 
Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC. He was 
eventually appointed senior Deputy Comptroller of the Currency before 
retiring from Federal service in 1981.
  After his years of service in the Federal Government, Lewis returned 
to practice law in Mobile, joining the law firm of Miller, Hamilton, 
Snider & Odom. That was when I met Lewis. As a newly minted lawyer, 
Lewis took me under his wing and served as an important mentor.
  Lewis was a thorough and exact lawyer who paid attention to detail 
and helped instill those traits in me and many others that he worked 
with. He inspired in me the confidence to hold myself to a standard of 
excellence, but he did so without being overbearing or harsh. He took a 
new lawyer and allowed me to gain invaluable experience.
  As a young lawyer, Lewis taught me an important lesson that every 
young lawyer must learn: to choose your battles wisely. This lesson 
applied to more than just the field of law, however, and I have 
continued to use this principle in many of the other skills that I 
learned from Lewis throughout my life and career.
  Lewis was also a true community leader committed to making Alabama a 
better place. From his first days in Mobile to his last, Lewis was ever 
present in the community, serving in any way he could, always giving 
his time and his devotion.
  During his years in Mobile, Lewis served as the chairman of the 
Alabama Ethics Commission, the chairman of the Mobile water board, 
chancellor of the Episcopal Diocese of the Central Gulf Coast, and 
chairman of the Mobile Museum Board.
  He was also a strong supporter of the University of Alabama, serving 
as president to various alumni chapters and as a founding member of the 
Farrah Law Society for the University of Alabama School of Law.
  It is true that Lewis worked just as hard for his community in his 
retirement as he had earlier in his legal career.
  Sadly, Lewis Odom passed away on January 16 of this year at the age 
of 91.
  My wife, Rebecca, and I were both heartbroken to learn of his passing 
because he was such a dear friend. During this time of sadness, we take 
great

[[Page H750]]

comfort in remembering the impact he had on each of us as well as on 
our community, State, and country.
  I hope his wife, Janelle; son, Mike; daughter, Patty; beloved 
grandchildren and great-grandchildren can take comfort in the same.
  Mr. Speaker, Lewis was a man of great integrity and set an example 
for all those around him to hold ourselves to such a level of 
excellence and service. He was a great man, and he will be sorely 
missed.

                          ____________________



