

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2347-H2349]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DeFAZIO:
       H.R. 1664. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to index the gas and diesel tax and rebuild our roads, 
     bridges, and transit systems; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mrs. 
             Bustos):
       H.R. 1665. A bill to ensure that Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency considers severe local 
     impact in making a recommendation to the President for a 
     major disaster declaration; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. Lee, Mr. Massie, 
             Ms. Speier, and Mr. Cleaver):
       H.R. 1666. A bill to prohibit the availability of funds for 
     activities in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Conyers, 
             and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 1667. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code in order to facilitate the resolution of an insolvent 
     financial institution in bankruptcy; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia (for himself and Mr. 
             Lowenthal):
       H.R. 1668. A bill to establish the Bureau of Land 
     Management Foundation as a charitable and nonprofit 
     corporation to encourage, accept, obtain, administer, and use 
     private gifts, devises, and bequests for the benefit of 
     activities and services of the Bureau of Land Management, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.

[[Page H2348]]

  

           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Barr, Mr. Bera, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Gottheimer, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Mr. Heck, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Norcross, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Polis, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. 
             Schneider, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Soto, and Mrs. Torres):
       H.R. 1669. A bill to establish the American Infrastructure 
     Fund, to provide bond guarantees and make loans to States, 
     local governments, and infrastructure providers for 
     investments in certain infrastructure projects, and to 
     provide equity investments in such projects, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             Bera, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Norcross, 
             Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Polis, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 1670. A bill to eliminate the incentive for 
     corporations to continue to hold accumulated earnings 
     offshore, to invest in domestic infrastructure, to provide 
     for international tax reform, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Rules, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BARLETTA (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 1671. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require the provision of social security numbers as a 
     condition of receiving the health insurance premium tax 
     credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Matsui, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Doggett, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Schrader, 
             Mrs. Bustos, and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 1672. A bill to improve the competitiveness of United 
     States manufacturing by designating and supporting 
     manufacturing communities; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Welch, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Raskin, and 
             Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico):
       H.R. 1673. A bill to establish a trust fund to provide for 
     adequate funding for water and sewer infrastructure, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on Energy 
     and Commerce, Ways and Means, and Agriculture, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Zeldin, and Mr. 
             Suozzi):
       H.R. 1674. A bill to amend and reauthorize certain 
     provisions relating to Long Island Sound restoration and 
     stewardship; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Ms. Lee, Ms. Norton, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Heck, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 1675. A bill to establish a national program to 
     identify and reduce losses from landslide hazards, to 
     establish a national 3D Elevation Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Reed, and Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 1676. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative care 
     at accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, 
     nursing schools, social work schools, and other programs, 
     including physician assistant education programs, to promote 
     education and research in palliative care and hospice, and to 
     support the development of faculty careers in academic 
     palliative medicine; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Royce of California, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Messer, 
             Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 1677. A bill to halt the wholesale slaughter of the 
     Syrian people, encourage a negotiated political settlement, 
     and hold Syrian human rights abusers accountable for their 
     crimes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Financial Services, and the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. FRANKEL of Florida (for herself and Mr. Webster 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 1678. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act concerning the statute of 
     limitations for actions to recover disaster or emergency 
     assistance payments, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for himself and Mr. Sires):
       H.R. 1679. A bill to ensure that the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency's current efforts to modernize its grant 
     management system includes applicant accessibility and 
     transparency, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself and Mr. Lawson of Florida):
       H.R. 1680. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     improve the women's business center program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for himself, Ms. DelBene, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Rush, Ms. Titus, 
             Mr. Heck, Mr. McGovern, and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 1681. A bill to improve the reproductive assistance 
     provided by the Department of Defense and the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to severely wounded, ill, or injured members 
     of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their spouses or partners, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1682. A bill to clarify that no express or implied 
     warranty is provided by reason of a disclosure relating to 
     voluntary participation in the Energy Star program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself, 
             Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Walz, Mr. Cook, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Norton, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Jones, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Matsui, Mr. Sires, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Cole, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Deutch, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Collins of 
             New York, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Himes, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Levin, Mr. Ruiz, 
             Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Takano, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Faso, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Valadao, Mr. Rokita, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Pallone, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Neal, Ms. 
             Tenney, and Ms. Sanchez):
       H.R. 1683. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint coins in commemoration of the National Purple Heart 
     Hall of Honor; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 1684. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency to provide technical 
     assistance to common interest communities regarding 
     eligibility for disaster assistance, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself and Mr. Bost):
       H.R. 1685. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish mental 
     and behavioral health care to certain individuals discharged 
     or released from the active military, naval, or air service 
     under conditions other than honorable, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H.R. 1686. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the limitation on the carryover of excess 
     corporate charitable contributions by regulated public 
     utilities; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN:
       H.R. 1687. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to lower the mileage

[[Page H2349]]

     threshold for deduction in determining adjusted gross income 
     of certain expenses of members of reserve components of the 
     Armed Forces, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself and Mr. Roe of Tennessee):
       H.R. 1688. A bill to avoid duplicative annual reporting 
     under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Employee 
     Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 1689. A bill to protect private property rights; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself, Mr. Takano, Mr. Correa, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Faso, Mr. Jones, Mr. Banks of Indiana, 
             Mr. Coffman, Mr. Collins of New York, and Ms. 
             Sinema):
       H.R. 1690. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit an annual 
     report regarding performance awards and bonuses awarded to 
     certain high-level employees of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Mr. Cook, 
             Mr. Schiff, and Mr. Aguilar):
       H.R. 1691. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude from gross income amounts received from 
     State-based earthquake loss mitigation programs; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Engel, and Ms. Clarke 
             of New York):
       H.R. 1692. A bill to address the problem of illegal firearm 
     trafficking to Mexico; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for himself and Mr. 
             Lipinski):
       H. Con. Res. 37. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that Congress and the President should prioritize 
     the reduction and elimination, over a reasonable period of 
     time, of the overall trade deficit of the United States; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr. Evans, Ms. Norton, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Clay, Mr. Ruppersberger, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Delaney, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. DeGette, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Rush, and Mr. Raskin):
       H. Con. Res. 38. Concurrent resolution recognizing the life 
     and legacy of Henrietta Lacks during Women's History Month; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. TROTT (for himself, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Valadao, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Royce 
             of California, Mr. Engel, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Mr. McGovern, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Eshoo, and Mr. 
             Costa):
       H. Res. 220. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding past genocides, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



