

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S298-S299]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          DACA AND BRIDGE ACT

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, in 8 days, just a short distance from this 
Senate Chamber, Donald Trump will be sworn in asthe 45th President of 
the United States. On that date, January 20, 2017, the fate of more 
than 750,000 young American immigrantswill hang in the balance. They 
will be waiting to learn if they have a place in America's future or 
whether they will lose theirlegal status to stay in the United States. 
For many of them, it is a period of the highest anxiety, wondering what 
is going tohappen next.
  It was 7 years ago that I sent a letter to President Obama. I had 
introduced the DREAM Act, which said that ifyou were brought to America 
as a child, an infant, or an adolescent, lived here all your life, went 
to school and did well, andhad no criminal record of any consequences, 
we would give you a chance to stay. Over a period of time, you would be 
able tobecome legal in America--a citizen in America. Sixteen years 
ago, I introduced it, and we passed it once in the Senate, once inthe 
House, and never, ever made it the law of the land.
  I wrote to President Obama, with Senator Dick Lugar, Republican 
ofIndiana, and said: Find some way, if you can, as President, to 
protect these young DREAMers, as we call them. And he did. It iscalled 
DACA, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.
  What it basically said is that if you qualify under the DREAM Act, 
youcould pay a filing fee of almost $500, go through a criminal 
background check and interview, and, then, if you qualify, you willbe 
given a 2-year temporary protection from deportation and the ability to 
work. So far, over 750,000 young people have comeforward. They have 
made such a difference in their own lives, in the lives of their 
families, and even in our country.
  Ihave come over 100 times to tell their stories, and I will tell 
another one today. But I want to also announce that today wehave a 
significant bipartisan breakthrough for this Congress: Republican 
Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Ihave introduced the 
BRIDGE Act. The BRIDGE Act, which has bipartisan sponsorship, would say 
that even if we eliminated PresidentObama's Executive order, we would 
protect these young people from deportation and allow them to continue 
to work and study.
  I want to thank Senator Graham. He has been a terrific partner.
  This is an issue whichweighs heavily on my mind and conscience. We 
believe this is a reasonable way to extend this protection and to say 
to Congressin the meantime: Get to work. Roll up your sleeves. Pass a 
comprehensive immigration bill. Work with the new President, workwith 
both sides, Democrats and Republicans, and come up with an approach.
  I thank Senator Graham for joining me in theintroduction of this 
BRIDGE Act.
  For the young people across America, I can tell you, I understand 
your fears. I understandyour anxiety. There are many of us who are 
dedicated to making certain that this ends well for you and for your 
family.
  There are pretty amazing young people who are in that category I have 
addressed. One of them is Jose Espinoza. At the age of2, Jose Espinoza 
was brought here from Mexico. He grew up in the northwest suburbs of 
Chicago and became an excellent student.In high school, he was a member 
of the National Honor Society, and he graduated in the top 3 percent of 
his class. He waselected to the student council every year in high 
school, the treasurer, vice president, editor of the high school 
yearbook,mentored and taught physical education to a freshman class of 
40 students. He was also captain of the varsity track and fieldteam and 
a member of the soccer team and the school orchestra.
  In his spare time, if there was any, Jose volunteered withthe United 
Way, and as a result of his academic record and volunteer service, he 
received a college scholarship from the UnitedWay.
  Incidentally, DREAMers--undocumented--don't qualify for any Federal

[[Page S299]]

assistance for their education, so they have tofind it in other places. 
His work with the United Way helped to pay his way at the college. He 
went to the University ofIllinois at Urbana-Champaign and received 
multiple academic awards and continued his volunteer service with Alpha 
Phi Omega, anational service fraternity. He received the Distinguished 
Service Key, the fraternity's highest award. He graduated with 
abachelor of science in kinesiology and then went on to earn a master's 
degree in public health at the University of Illinois.
  In his last semester of graduate school, President Obama announced 
the DACA Program, which I described earlier. He applied,signed up, and 
became part of that DACA Program.
  What is he doing today with his master's degree, with his opportunity 
towork in fields of public health and such? He signed up for Teach For 
America. We know Teach For America is a national nonprofitorganization 
that places talented recent college graduates in urban and rural 
schools that have a shortage of teachers. Jose iscurrently a high 
school physics and public health teacher in the city of Chicago.
  He wrote me a letter, and he said:

       DACA changed my life in more ways than I can ever explain. 
     It has given me the power to helpothers, the freedom to 
     travel, and the right to legally work without fear of 
     deportation. Simply put, without DACA, I wouldn'texist for my 
     students and my community.

  If DACA is eliminated, what will happen to Jose? The day after DACA, 
he won't beable to teach. He could be deported back to Mexico, where he 
hasn't lived since he was a 2-year-old toddler. That would be atragedy, 
not just for Jose and his family but for this Nation. This is a fine 
young man who, against great odds, undocumented,has written this 
amazing record in his young life. He is a giving person. He could be 
making a lot more money than his pay withTeach For America in an inner 
city school.
  Do we need Jose Espinoza in America's future? I think we do. That is 
why I amhappy that this BRIDGE Act would give him a chance and Congress 
a chance to address this issue of DREAMers. I hope President-Elect 
Trump will understand this and continue the DACA Program. If he decides 
to end the DACA Program, I hope his administrationwill work closely and 
rapidly with Congress to pass the BRIDGE Act into law.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence ofa quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerkproceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent thatthe order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



