

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S154-S156]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 16

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 16, a bill to require a full audit of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal 
reserve banks by the Comptroller General of the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 23

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 23, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
adopt and implement a standard identification protocol for use in the 
tracking and procurement of biological implants by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) 
and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 27, a bill to establish an independent commission to examine and 
report on the facts regarding the extent of Russian official and 
unofficial cyber operations and other attempts to interfere in the 2016 
United States national election, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 30

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 30, a bill to extend the civil statute 
of limitations for victims of Federal sex offenses.


                                 S. 41

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 41, a bill to 
amend part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate covered part D drug 
prices on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries.


                                 S. 42

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Minnesota

[[Page S155]]

(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 42, a bill to inspire 
women to enter the aerospace field, including science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics, through mentorship and outreach.


                                 S. 45

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 45, a bill to amend the Immigration and 
Nationality Act to increase penalties for individuals who illegally 
reenter the United States after being removed and for other purposes.


                                 S. 51

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 51, a bill to make habitual 
drunk drivers inadmissible and removable and to require the detention 
of any alien who is unlawfully present in the United States and has 
been charged with driving under the influence or driving while 
intoxicated.


                                 S. 57

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 57, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to revoke bonuses paid to employees 
involved in electronic wait list manipulations, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 1, a joint resolution 
approving the location of a memorial to commemorate and honor the 
members of the Armed Forces who served on active duty in support of 
Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield.


                              S.J. RES. 2

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
Young) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 2, a joint resolution 
proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
relative to limiting the number of terms that a Member of Congress may 
serve.


                               S. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford), the Senator 
from Utah (Mr. Lee), the Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson), the 
Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. 
McCaskill), the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp), the Senator 
from Georgia (Mr. Isakson), the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. 
Scott), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner), the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 6, a resolution objecting to United 
Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 and to all efforts that 
undermine direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians for a 
secure and peaceful settlement.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 9

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 9 intended to be proposed to 
S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 12

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 12 intended to be proposed to 
S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 13

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the Senator 
from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), 
the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 13 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 
3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 15

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 15 
intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 17

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) and the 
Senator from Delaware (Mr. Carper) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 17 intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a 
concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for the 
United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 18

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 18 
intended to be proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 19

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken), 
the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden), the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer), the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and 
the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 19 proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal year 2017 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels 
for fiscal years 2018 through 2026.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 20

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the Senator 
from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), 
the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator 
from New York (Mr. Schumer), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), 
the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester), the Senator from New Hampshire 
(Ms. Hassan), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator 
from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Sanders), the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator 
from Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown), the 
Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Murphy), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray), the Senator from 
New Jersey (Mr. Booker), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Carper), the 
Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters), the Senator from 
Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. 
Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 20 proposed to S. 
Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.
  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 20 
proposed to S. Con. Res. 3, supra.


                            AMENDMENT NO. 21

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow), the Senator from

[[Page S156]]

Delaware (Mr. Carper) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 21 intended to be proposed to 
S. Con. Res. 3, a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017 and 
setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2018 
through 2026.

                          ____________________



