

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S399-S400]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 11

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 11, a bill to recognize 
Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, to relocate to Jerusalem the United 
States Embassy in Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 16

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 16, a bill to 
require a full audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System and the Federal reserve banks by the Comptroller General of the 
United States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 18

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 18, a bill to promote 
freedom, fairness, and economic opportunity by repealing the income tax 
and other taxes, abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, and enacting 
a national sales tax to be administered primarily by the States.


                                 S. 26

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the 
Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added as cosponsors of S. 
26, a bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require the 
disclosure of certain tax returns by Presidents and certain candidates 
for the office of the President, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator 
from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as cosponsors of S. 27, a bill to 
establish an independent commission to examine and report on the facts 
regarding the extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber 
operations and other attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States 
national election, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 33

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 33, a bill to 
provide for congressional approval of national monuments and 
restrictions on the use of national monuments, to establish 
requirements for the declaration of marine national monuments, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 57

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 57, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to revoke bonuses paid to employees 
involved in electronic wait list manipulations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 78

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 78, a bill to provide for 
reimbursement for the use of modern travel services by Federal 
employees traveling on official Government business, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 92

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 92, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the personal 
importation of safe and affordable drugs from approved pharmacies in 
Canada.


                                 S. 104

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), 
the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the Senator from New Hampshire 
(Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 104, a bill to provide for the vacating of certain 
convictions and expungement of certain arrests of victims of human 
trafficking.


                                 S. 139

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) and the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 139, a bill to implement the use of Rapid DNA 
instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or detention and 
their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and other crimes, 
to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 141

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 141, a bill to improve 
understanding and forecasting of space weather events, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 143

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 143, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against income tax for 
amounts paid by a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces for a new 
State license or certification required by reason of a permanent change 
in the duty station of such member to another State.


                                 S. 172

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 172, a bill to require the President to 
withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement and to make that 
Agreement ineligible for expedited consideration by Congress.


                                 S. 175

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 175, a bill to 
amend the

[[Page S400]]

Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 1974 United Mine 
Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 184

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 184, a bill to prohibit taxpayer 
funded abortions.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton), the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst), the Senator from 
Maine (Mr. King) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were 
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 1, a joint resolution approving the 
location of a memorial to commemorate and honor the members of the 
Armed Forces who served on active duty in support of Operation Desert 
Storm or Operation Desert Shield.


                              S.J. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 6, a 
joint resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States relative to equal rights for men and women.


                             S. CON. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 5, a concurrent 
resolution affirming the importance of religious freedom as a 
fundamental human right that is essential to a free society and 
protected for all people of the United States under the Constitution of 
the United States, and recognizing the 231st anniversary of the 
enactment of the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom.


                               S. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the 
Senator from Washington (Ms. Cantwell), the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 6, a resolution objecting to United Nations 
Security Council Resolution 2334 and to all efforts that undermine 
direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians for a secure 
and peaceful settlement.


                               S. RES. 15

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 15, a resolution expressing the sense of the 
Senate that the Mexico City policy should be permanently established.

                          ____________________



