

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S868]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 21

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 21, a bill to amend 
chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide that major rules 
of the executive branch shall have no force or effect unless a joint 
resolution of approval is enacted into law.


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 59, a bill to provide that silencers be treated the 
same as long guns.


                                 S. 85

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 85, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the amendments made by the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which disqualify expenses 
for over-the-counter drugs under health savings accounts and health 
flexible spending arrangements.


                                 S. 119

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 119, a bill to 
impose certain limitations on consent decrees and settlement agreements 
by agencies that require the agencies to take regulatory action in 
accordance with the terms thereof, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 204

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 204, a bill to 
authorize the use of unapproved medical products by patients diagnosed 
with a terminal illness in accordance with State law, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 224

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 224, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to prohibit taking minors across State lines in 
circumvention of laws requiring the involvement of parents in abortion 
decisions.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 260, a bill to repeal the provisions of the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act providing for the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 279

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 279, a bill to amend the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1986 to modify a provision relating 
to acquisition of beach fill.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug 
Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and to 
protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental 
discrimination against providers of health services that are not 
involved in abortion.


                                 S. 302

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 302, a bill to enhance tribal 
road safety, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 306

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 306, a bill to 
provide for a biennial budget process and a biennial appropriations 
process and to enhance oversight and the performance of the Federal 
Government.


                                 S. 315

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 315, a bill to direct the Secretary of the Army to 
place in Arlington National Cemetery a monument honoring the helicopter 
pilots and crewmembers who were killed while serving on active duty in 
the Armed Forces during the Vietnam era, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 14

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 14, a 
joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 
8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Social 
Security Administration relating to Implementation of the NICS 
Improvement Amendments Act of 2007.


                              S.J. RES. 17

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 17, a 
joint resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.


                               S. RES. 50

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) and the Senator 
from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 50, a 
resolution reaffirming a strong commitment to the United States-
Australia alliance relationship.


                               S. RES. 51

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 51, a resolution recognizing the 
contributions of Federal employees and pledging to oppose efforts to 
reduce Federal workforce pay and benefits, eliminate civil service 
employment protections, undermine collective bargaining, and increase 
the use of non-Federal contractors for inherently governmental 
activities.

                          ____________________



