

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H56]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RELIEF FROM EXCESSIVEEXECUTIVE ORDERS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Webster of Florida). The Chair 
recognizes the gentlewoman from Missouri(Mrs. Wagner) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, for the past 8 years, President BarackObama 
has used his pen and phone to create a fourth branch of government that 
overreaches through executive orders and Federalrules and regulations. 
But today is a new day--a day when this Congress begins to dismantle 
this fourth branch of government anddrain the swamp in Washington.
  Through the entirety of this President's administration, Republicans 
have fought against out-of-control growth of Federal bureaucracy and 
rules and regulations that have suffocated the American economy. The 
last time Ichecked, the President's job was to enforce existing laws 
and work with the elected Members of Congress whose responsibility itis 
to pass laws as the people's representatives. Instead, I believe he has 
undermined not only our Constitution but also theAmerican people 
through this executive power grab.
  It is time to get rid of the Washington-knows-best, top-down, one-
size-fits-all rules like the EPA's waters of the U.S., the Clean Power 
Plan, the Department of Labor's overtime rule and restrictionson your 
retirement savings. These regulations have consequences, and what these 
bureaucrats do have, consequences. In 2015alone, the Federal Government 
leveled 3,400 regulations on Americans. Those regulations cost us $1.9 
trillion in lostproductivity and growth--a cost of $15,000 per American 
household.
  Now, for the first time during my tenure serving theSecond 
Congressional District of Missouri, Congress has a unique opportunity. 
This week we will pass a bill that I have had thepleasure of 
cosponsoring and voted for twice before--the REINS Act, and I expect it 
to become law. The REINS Act puts power backin the hands of the people 
as Congress--the people's House--can implement an up-or-down vote on 
any new major rule before they cantake effect. Congress should decide 
what rules are necessary for our constituents--not unelected 
bureaucrats.
  We will alsopass this week the Midnight Rules Relief Act which will 
allow Congress to stop the Obama administration's last 
minuteregulations from taking effect as they turn out the lights and 
head out the door.
  The American people spoke loud and clear:They want results. They are 
tired of working harder for less money and tired of wondering how they 
will make ends meet at theend of every month. They have had enough and 
are tired of the constant chipping away of their freedoms.
  Taken together,these two bills clearly demonstrate that this 
Republican Congress is unified and will work with President-elect Trump 
to helpalleviate the day-to-day burdens felt by Americans across the 
country. By passing these bills, we are demonstrating that we 
arelistening to our constituents and we are telling them that their 
elected representatives are in charge, not Washingtonbureaucrats.

                          ____________________



