

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2628-H2629]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Walden, and 
             Mr. Higgins of Louisiana):
       H.R. 1848. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program on the use of medical 
     scribes in Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TROTT:
       H.R. 1849. A bill to amend the Fair Debt Collection 
     Practices Act to exclude law firms and licensed attorneys who 
     are engaged in activities related to legal proceedings from 
     the definition of a debt collector, to amend the Consumer 
     Financial Protection Act of 2010 to prevent the Bureau of 
     Consumer Financial Protection from exercising supervisory or 
     enforcement authority with respect to attorneys when 
     undertaking certain actions related to legal proceedings, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. AMASH (for himself, Mr. Moolenaar, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Mitchell, 
             Mr. Walberg, Mr. Levin, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Trott, Mr. 
             Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Conyers, and Mr. Upton):
       H.R. 1850. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 907 Fourth Avenue in Lake 
     Odessa, Michigan, as the ``Donna Sauers Besko Post Office''; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. BORDALLO:
       H.R. 1851. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to develop and implement a fully automated 
     electronic system for travel authorization for the Guam and 
     Northern Mariana Islands visa waiver program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr. O'Halleran, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. 
             Gallego, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Ms. Titus, Mr. Foster, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             Kihuen, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Ms. Bass, Mr. Takano, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Schrader, 
             Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Huffman, and Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester):
       H.R. 1852. A bill to require the White House and each 
     agency to provide an official website in Spanish, Chinese, 
     Tagalog, and Vietnamese, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H.R. 1853. A bill to authorize the Attorney General, in 
     consultation with the Director of the National Institute of 
     Mental Health, to carry out a pilot program in correctional 
     facilities in order to provide mental health services and 
     other social services to eligible individuals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia (for himself and Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 1854. A bill to require the use of prescription drug 
     monitoring programs and to facilitate information sharing 
     among States; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr. Massie):
       H.R. 1855. A bill to repeal the authorizations for office 
     space, office expenses, franking and printing privileges, and 
     staff for former Speakers of the House of Representatives; to 
     the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. LYNCH:
       H.R. 1856. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, 
     with respect to certain tort claims arising out of the 
     criminal misconduct of confidential informants, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself and Mr. Cummings):
       H.R. 1857. A bill to require Federal law enforcement 
     agencies to report to Congress serious crimes, authorized as 
     well as unauthorized, committed by their confidential 
     informants; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Evans, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Perry, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
             Shuster, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Dent, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Cartwright, 
             and Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1858. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 4514 Williamson Trail in 
     Liberty, Pennsylvania, as the ``Staff Sergeant Ryan Scott 
     Ostrom Post Office``; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. MARINO:
       H.R. 1859. A bill to amend the Intermodal Surface 
     Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 to designate a portion 
     of United States Route 15 in Pennsylvania as part of the 
     Interstate System, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. MEEKS:
       H.R. 1860. A bill to ensure fairness in the recoupment of 
     certain Federal disaster assistance, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Fudge, Mr. Allen, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Kind, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Stivers, Mr. 
             Rothfus, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             Kinzinger, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Knight, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Guthrie, 
             Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mrs. Black, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             Valadao, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Bucshon, Mr. Kilmer, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Welch, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Levin, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, Mr. Cleaver, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Schrader, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Richmond, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Connolly, Ms. Meng, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Kennedy, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Bishop 
             of Michigan, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Latta, Mr. Turner, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. 
             Collins of New York, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Bishop of Utah, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Vargas, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Stewart, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. 
             Woodall, Mr. Long, Mr. Olson, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             Holding, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Hudson, Mr. 
             Davidson, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Chabot, Mr. 
             Issa, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Peters, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Crawford, 
             Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Walker, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. 
             Marino, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
             Yoder, and Mr. Brat):
       H.R. 1861. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal in 
     honor of Lawrence Eugene ``Larry'' Doby in recognition of his 
     achievements and contributions to American major league 
     athletics, civil rights, and the Armed

[[Page H2629]]

     Forces during World War II; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mrs. ROBY:
       H.R. 1862. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     expand the scope of certain definitions pertaining to 
     unlawful sexual conduct, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 1863. A bill to designate the area between the 
     intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Davis 
     Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds 
     Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as 
     ``Boris Nemtsov Plaza'', and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself and Ms. Herrera 
             Beutler):
       H.R. 1864. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to allow local educational agencies to 
     use Federal funds for programs and activities that address 
     chronic absenteeism; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Smith of 
             New Jersey, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Poe of Texas, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Kinzinger, and Ms. Jenkins 
             of Kansas):
       H.R. 1865. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to clarify that section 230 of such Act does not prohibit the 
     enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
     computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law 
     relating to sexual exploitation of children or sex 
     trafficking, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WEBER of Texas:
       H.R. 1866. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to disallow certain biodiesel and alternative fuel tax 
     credits for fuels derived from animal fats; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 1867. A bill to amend the Alaska Native Claims 
     Settlement Act to provide for equitable allotment of land to 
     Alaska Native veterans; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona (for himself and Mr. Royce of 
             California):
       H.J. Res. 93. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to protect the rights 
     of crime victims; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Ms. 
             Bass, and Mr. Ellison):
       H. Res. 239. A resolution supporting ongoing efforts by the 
     United States Government, in concert with the United Nations 
     and the donor community, to respond to drought and food 
     insecurity in the Horn of Africa; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself and Mr. Stivers):
       H. Res. 243. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of ``Financial Literacy Month''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Tenney, and Mr. Hastings):
       H. Res. 244. A resolution expressing support for Japan to 
     end its whaling in all forms and to strengthen measures to 
     conserve whale populations; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Brat, and Mr. Taylor):
       H. Res. 245. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of April 23 as ``Barbara Johns Day'' to highlight 
     the important role Ms. Barbara Rose Johns (Powell) played in 
     the Civil Rights Movement, in Brown v. Board of Education and 
     the desegregation of schools, and her role in the history of 
     the United States and the lives of United States citizens; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



