

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1124-H1125]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Schrader, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. Adams, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. 
             Bonamici, and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 1001. A bill to exempt certain veterans and other 
     individuals from the application of the hiring freeze; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. DENT (for himself, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Allen, Mr. Polis, and Mr. 
             Barletta):
       H.R. 1002. A bill to authorize a National Heritage Area 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 1003. A bill to authorize the establishment of a 
     program of voluntary separation incentive payments for 
     nonjudicial employees of the District of Columbia courts and 
     employees of the District of Columbia Public Defender 
     Service; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Gosar, and Mr. 
             Farenthold):
       H.R. 1004. A bill to amend chapter 3 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to require the publication of information 
     relating to pending agency regulatory actions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself and Miss Rice of New York):
       H.R. 1005. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the provision of adult day health care services for 
     veterans; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Quigley, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Ms. Velazquez, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Langevin, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Ms. Norton, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Ellison, and Mr. Johnson of Georgia):
       H.R. 1006. A bill to clarify the rights of all persons who 
     are held or detained at a port of entry or at any detention 
     facility overseen by U.S. Customs and Border Protection or 
     U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. King of New York, and 
             Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 1007. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a task force on Agent Orange exposure; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SOTO (for himself and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 1008. A bill to ensure reliable observation of 
     hurricanes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr. Meadows, and Mr. 
             Palmer):
       H.R. 1009. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     require the Administrator of the Office of Information and 
     Regulatory Affairs to review regulations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BARLETTA:
       H.R. 1010. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to expand the definition of an unauthorized alien to 
     include aliens who have not been admitted to and are not 
     lawfully present in the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 1011. A bill to make clear that an agency outside of 
     the Department of Health and Human Services may not 
     designate, appoint, or employ special consultants, fellows, 
     or other employees under subsection (f) or (g) of section 207 
     of the Public Health Service Act; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 1012. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the dollar limitation on employer-provided 
     group term life insurance that can be excluded from the gross 
     income of the employee; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             and Mr. Nolan):
       H.R. 1013. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the above-the-line deduction for certain 
     expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers to 
     individuals involved in early childhood education programs; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Vargas, Ms. Norton, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Ms. 
             Bass, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, and Mr. Serrano):
       H.R. 1014. A bill to designate Haiti under section 244 of 
     the Immigration and Nationality Act to permit nationals of 
     Haiti to be eligible for temporary protected status under 
     such section; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Nolan, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Soto, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. Beyer, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Cartwright, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 1015. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a credit against

[[Page H1125]]

     income tax for qualified conservation contributions which 
     include National Scenic Trails; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             and Mr. Serrano):
       H.R. 1016. A bill to amend the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 to establish an Office of Inspector General in the 
     Executive Office of the President, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. DENT (for himself, Mr. Payne, and Mr. Lance):
       H.R. 1017. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare for 
     colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
     therapeutic intervention is required during the screening; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. DesJARLAIS (for himself and Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee):
       H.R. 1018. A bill to replace the Director of the Bureau of 
     Consumer Financial Protection with a 5-person commission, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Goodlatte, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Griffith, and 
             Mr. Brat):
       H.R. 1019. A bill to designate the Federal building and 
     United States courthouse located at 255 West Main Street 
     Charlottesville, Virginia, as the ``Justice Antonin G. Scalia 
     Federal Building and United States Courthouse''; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself and Mr. Brat):
       H.R. 1020. A bill to allow the manufacture, importation, 
     distribution, and sale of investigational drugs and devices 
     intended for use by terminally ill patients who execute an 
     informed consent document, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself and Mr. Brat):
       H.R. 1021. A bill to amend section 349 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act to deem specified activities in support 
     of terrorism as renunciation of United States nationality, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Connolly, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Beyer, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Soto, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Speier, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Keating, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Mr. Cooper, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Adams, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Delaney, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Foster, Ms. Bonamici, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Cartwright, and Ms. 
             Schakowsky):
       H.R. 1022. A bill to provide that 6 of the 12 weeks of 
     parental leave made available to a Federal employee shall be 
     paid leave, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself and Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts):
       H.R. 1023. A bill to create penalties for massage 
     establishment owners and employees who fail to report 
     knowledge or reasonable suspicion of sexual assault; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 1024. A bill to amend section 1105(a) of title 31, 
     United States Code, to require that annual budget submissions 
     of the President to Congress provide an estimate of the cost 
     per taxpayer of the deficit and of the public debt; to the 
     Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr. Connolly, and Mr. 
             Quigley):
       H.R. 1025. A bill to provide for media coverage of Federal 
     appellate court proceedings, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NOLAN (for himself, Mr. Welch, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Peterson, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Faso, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, and Mr. Paulsen):
       H.R. 1026. A bill to revise the authorized route of the 
     North Country National Scenic Trail in northeastern Minnesota 
     and to extend the trail into Vermont to connect with the 
     Appalachian National Scenic Trail, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SARBANES (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. DeLauro, and Mr. Larson 
             of Connecticut):
       H.R. 1027. A bill to amend title XXI of the Social Security 
     Act to improve access to, and the delivery of, children's 
     health services through school-based health centers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SIRES:
       H.R. 1028. A bill to amend titles 23 and 49, United States 
     Code, with respect to congestion mitigation and metropolitan 
     transportation planning, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. TIPTON (for himself and Mr. Scalise):
       H.J. Res. 71. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the final rule of the Office of Natural 
     Resources Revenue of the Department of the Interior relating 
     to consolidated Federal oil and gas and Federal and Indian 
     coal valuation reform; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CHABOT:
       H. Res. 114. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Small Business in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. SESSIONS:
       H. Res. 115. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Rules in the One Hundred 
     Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself and Mr. Cummings):
       H. Res. 117. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
     in the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. 
             Pocan):
       H. Res. 118. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of February 14 of each year as International 
     Flower Workers' Day, in acknowledgment of workers in flower-
     producing countries and to demonstrate the commitment of the 
     United States to practices that respect labor rights in other 
     countries; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE:
       H. Res. 119. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on the Judiciary in the One Hundred 
     Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H. Res. 120. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     with regard to the courts' actions against President Trump's 
     executive order; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Buchanan, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Meng, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Peters, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, and Mr. DeFazio):
       H. Res. 121. A resolution expressing support for health and 
     wellness coaches and ``National Health and Wellness Coach 
     Recognition Week''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SMITH of Texas:
       H. Res. 122. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
     in the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.

                          ____________________



