

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2047-S2049]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 175

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 175, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 1974 United Mine 
Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 261

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 261, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain 
disclosure requirements for restaurants and similar retail food 
establishments, and to amend the authority to bring proceedings under 
section 403A.


                                 S. 355

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 355, a bill to amend the Federal Lands Recreation 
Enhancement Act to provide for a lifetime National Recreational Pass 
for any veteran with a service-connected disability.


                                 S. 365

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 365, a bill to amend the Consumer 
Financial Protection Act of 2010 to remove the funding cap relating to 
the transfer of funds from the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System to the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 366

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 366, a bill to require the Federal financial 
institutions regulatory agencies to take risk profiles and business 
models of institutions into account when taking regulatory actions, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry 
to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 405

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island

[[Page S2048]]

(Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 405, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Higher Education Act of 1965 
to provide an exclusion from income for student loan forgiveness for 
students who have died or become disabled.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 425

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 425, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve the historic rehabilitation 
tax credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 474, a bill to 
condition assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the 
Palestinian Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli 
citizens.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 493

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 493, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for the removal or 
demotion of employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs based on 
performance or misconduct, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) 
and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to 
provide for Medicare coverage of certain lymphedema compression 
treatment items as items of durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 504

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 504, a bill to 
permanently authorize the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business 
Travel Card Program.


                                 S. 519

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 519, a bill to 
amend the Safe Water Drinking Act to require the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency to establish maximum contaminant levels 
for certain contaminants, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of States 
to tax certain income of employees for employment duties performed in 
other States.


                                 S. 544

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 544, a bill to amend 
Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the 
termination date for the Veterans Choice Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 573

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 573, a bill to establish 
the National Criminal Justice Commission.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 623, a bill to 
enhance the transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance 
provided under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality 
basic education in developing countries, to better enable such 
countries to achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 636

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 636, a bill to allow 
Americans to earn paid sick time so that they can address their own 
health needs and the health needs of their families.


                                 S. 640

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 640, a bill to prioritize 
funding for an expanded and sustained national investment in biomedical 
research.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early 
detection, diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing 
newborns, infants, and young children.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and services provided 
by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 700

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 700, a bill to improve the 
reproductive assistance provided by the Department of Defense and the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to severely wounded, ill, or injured 
members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their spouses or partners, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young), the 
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Isakson) were added as cosponsors of S. 720, a bill to amend the Export 
Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts 
against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by international 
governmental organizations against Israel and to direct the Export-
Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against Israel, and 
for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, supra.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins), the 
Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. 
Wicker), the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander), the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker), the 
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey), the Senator from West Virginia 
(Mrs. Capito), and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran 
in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 733

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from 
Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 733, a bill to 
protect and enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, 
and shooting, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 734

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 734, a bill to extend 
a project of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission involving the 
Cannonsville Dam.


                              S.J. RES. 19

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.

[[Page S2049]]

Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 19, a joint resolution 
providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection relating to prepaid accounts under the Electronic 
Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act.


                               S. RES. 11

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 11, a resolution encouraging 
the development of best business practices to fully utilize the 
potential of the United States.


                               S. RES. 49

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 49, a 
resolution declaring that achieving the primary goal of the National 
Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease of the Department of Health and 
Human Services to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer's disease by 
2025 is an urgent national priority.

                          ____________________



