

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2352-S2353]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           NATIONAL PARK WEEK

  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, as a fifth-generation Montanan who grew up 
just a short drive from our Nation's first national park, Yellowstone 
National Park, and as chair of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources 
Subcommittee on National Parks, the resolution before us is critically 
important to reassure the public that the U.S. Senate recognizes the 
remarkable value our national parks bring to our national heritage.
  I especially want to thank my good friend from Hawaii, Senator 
Hirono, who serves as ranking member of our subcommittee, for her 
partnership on bringing this resolution to the floor here this evening. 
She has been invaluable in working together to bring us to this moment.
  In fact, 33 of our colleagues joined us in submitting this 
resolution--nearly half Republican and half Democrat--including Alaska, 
Washington, Tennessee, New Mexico, Oklahoma, West Virginia, Missouri, 
Minnesota, Florida, Michigan, Colorado, Virginia, Louisiana, Ohio, 
California, Wyoming, Rhode Island, Maine, Arkansas, Wisconsin, and New 
Hampshire. There are small States and large States, States that boast 
vast landscapes and big game like Alaska and Montana, diverse 
ecosystems like the oceans of Hawaii or the Florida Everglades. Other 
States boast historic and cultural treasures, like our hallowed 
battlefields in Virginia.
  At a time when our country and Congress seem to be torn, it is only 
fitting that tonight our national parks are going to bring us together 
for a moment, to bridge this political divide, to bring remarkable 
opportunities for cultural education, outdoor recreation for

[[Page S2353]]

our families and for people around the world to enjoy, and, frankly, to 
bring us together as family and friends.
  As the National Park System begins its second century this year, we 
have seen record visitation, with 331 million visits in 2016, but 
record visitation also brings additional strain to our national parks 
and strain to our infrastructure.
  I am hopeful that with the adoption of this resolution, we can all be 
reminded of the importance of continued investment in our national 
parks to ensure their legacy truly endures for our children, 
grandchildren, and for generations to come.
  Mr. President, as in legislative session, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 117, submitted 
earlier today.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the resolution by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 117) designating the week of April 
     15, 2017, through April 23, 2017, as ``National Park Week.''

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motions to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no 
intervening action or debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The resolution (S. Res. 117) was agreed to.
  The preamble was agreed to.
  (The resolution, with its preamble, is printed in today's Record 
under ``Submitted Resolutions.'')
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



