

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1598]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           SUPPORTING THE 2017 MONKEY MADNESS 5K RUN AND WALK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Jones). The Chair recognizes the 
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I want to encourage everyone in south 
Florida to come out to Zoo Miami this Sunday, March 12, for the 
Families for Fragile X Monkey Madness 5K Run/Walk.
  Fragile X syndrome is the most common cause of inherited intellectual 
disability, which results in a wide range of mental and physical 
impairments. It is also the most common known genetic cause of autism.
  Through events like the upcoming 5K run/walk, organizations like the 
National Fragile X Foundation and the Families for Fragile X are 
working to raise awareness and advance groundbreaking research. These 
events also bring together those impacted by fragile X in our community 
and provide them with essential support and encouragement so that no 
one family has to go through this journey alone.
  I ask everyone in south Florida to join Michele and her son Matthew, 
as well as hundreds of other patients, caregivers, and friends whose 
lives have been impacted by fragile X, this Sunday for the Monkey 
Madness 5K Run/Walk. You can register at familiesforfragilex.com.


               Recognizing the Friendship Circle of Miami

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize the 
Friendship Circle of Miami, a program provided by the Chabad of Kendall 
& Pinecrest that offers much-needed acceptance to children and young 
individuals with special needs by providing them with the skills to 
become our future leaders.
  Since its inception, the Friendship Circle has provided these 
vulnerable members of our society the opportunity to participate in 
many programs like organized sports or visual and performing arts, all 
while building lasting friendships.
  The Friendship Circle has grown from a small organization that 
started in Detroit to now having chapters all across our Nation and, 
indeed, around the world. I would like to offer a special 
congratulations to our Miami chapter, as it recently held its annual 
Walk for Friendship, raising awareness and support for the programs and 
services offered to our youth.
  Mr. Speaker, it is organizations like Friendship Circle that serve as 
the pillar of equality and celebrate each person's individual qualities 
that make them great. I ask south Florida to join members of our 
community like the Pardo family--Angel, Rosie, and Andrew--in bringing 
a smile to the faces of some very special children in our community.


          Celebrating the 56th Anniversary of the Peace Corps

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, March 1 marked the 56th anniversary of 
the Peace Corps. The Peace Corps' talented volunteers have accomplished 
a lot over the years, serving in over 140 countries across the globe. 
They have changed millions of lives, provided immeasurable technical 
assistance to communities in need, and helped create a better 
understanding between Americans and peoples abroad.
  In 2011, I was proud to author a bill that helped protect Peace Corps 
volunteers. The Senate companion to that bill became law as the Kate 
Puzey Act, establishing policies that improved volunteer safety and 
ensured that they would have the resources necessary to contend with 
emergencies.
  Peace Corps volunteers exemplify the extraordinary compassion and 
leadership of our great Nation, and their security is paramount as they 
carry out their missions abroad. I congratulate the Peace Corps on its 
56th anniversary, and I wish it even greater success in the years 
ahead.


       Congratulating Jonathan Aguiar and the KNOW MORE Campaign

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize Jonathan 
Aguiar, a wonderful student at Christopher Columbus High School, whom I 
recently met, for his efforts that are known as KNOW MORE. He started 
this organization KNOW MORE, and it is an organization founded to raise 
awareness about sexual assault on high school campuses in south 
Florida.
  Anyone, regardless of age, can become a victim of sexual assault. 
Unfortunately, it is a crime that often goes unreported due to the 
detrimental scars felt by some victims. By joining together to create 
KNOW MORE, Jonathan and his friends have undertaken a noble effort to 
support victims, protect others from harm, and prepare high school 
students to make informed decisions.
  I thank Jonathan and Christopher Columbus High School for their work 
and advocacy to combat this issue that affects so many in our community 
and across the Nation.

                          ____________________



