

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S273]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                     TRIBUTE TO JOSEPH CRISCO, JR.

 Mr. MURPHY. Mr.President, I would like to congratulate my good 
friend Joseph Crisco, Jr., on his outstanding 24 years of service 
representingthe 17th district in the Connecticut State Senate. Joe has 
shown an incredible commitment to working for the people ofConnecticut 
over his long career, and I thank him for all that he has done for our 
State and, in particular, the towns ofAnsonia, Beacon Falls, Bethany, 
Derby, Hamden, Naugatuck, and his hometown of Woodbridge.
  Joe is a graduate of Wilbur CrossHigh School and the University of 
Connecticut, where he credits many of his early lessons to his time 
spent as an athlete on thefootball field. His outstanding career as a 
player at both institutions earned him a place in the Wilbur Cross 
Athletic Hall ofFame, and his experience as a standout guard on the 
UConn football team in 1956 and 1957 helped forge a lasting commitment 
tohis alma mater and shaped the ethic of teamwork and dedication that 
would follow him to the Connecticut State Senate.
  Firstelected to the senate in 1992, Joe's commitment to his 
constituents and his community has never wavered. It is no 
exaggerationto say that his district would not be what it is today if 
not for the many grants and public projects he has been responsiblefor 
bringing home, from recreational centers and trails, to libraries, 
animal shelters, and affordable housing. The 17thdistrict's most 
important institutions--like Griffin Hospital, Quinnipiac University, 
the Sterling Opera House, the Troop IBarracks of the Connecticut State 
Police, the former Bethany Airport, and the Metro-North Waterbury 
branch line--have always hada dedicated friend and advocate in Joe. And 
the annual senior fair in Ansonia's Warsaw Park, which Joe ran 
throughout hisservice in the senate, has provided assistance to 
thousands of senior citizens over the years and become an iconic event 
in theNaugatuck Valley.
  But more than simply serving the people in his district, Joe 
distinguished himself in the ConnecticutGeneral Assembly as one of its 
most effective and hard-working legislators. He served as chair of the 
Appropriations Committeeand the Insurance & Real Estate Committee and 
had a hand in some of the most important legislation in a generation to 
supportConnecticut's economy and the welfare of its citizens. He led 
the creation of the Biomedical Research Fund, which has devotedmillions 
of dollars towards research efforts in the State to fight heart 
disease, cancer, smoking-related illnesses,Alzheimer's, stroke, and 
diabetes. He championed investment tax credits for economic development 
and public safety, secured acost-of-living adjustment for beneficiaries 
of the ConnPACE Program for seniors, and fought passionately to expand 
the reach ofhealth insurance coverage. After only 6 years in the 
senate, Joe pioneered the founding of Family Day; an initiative close 
tohis heart as a father of 6 and grandfather of 18. And the legacy he 
leaves with his lifesaving work to improve and expandcoverage for 
breast cancer exams, creating a new international standard for 
insurance coverage, is a special achievement ofwhich Joe should be 
particularly proud.
  I am also personally thankful for Joe's dedication to his position in 
the generalassembly because I have seen it up close. During my time 
representing the 16th district, Joe and I sat next to each other in 
thesenate chamber, and I remain incredibly grateful for his willingness 
to act as a mentor and friend in the early years of mygovernment 
service.
  Once again, congratulations to Joe, his wife, Pat, and his entire 
family for a long and successful careerin the Connecticut State Senate. 
It is my hope that the general assembly will use Joe's career as an 
example and continue towork diligently and passionately for the people 
of our State in the years to come.

                          ____________________



