

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1973-S1974]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 704. A bill to provide that members of the Armed Forces 
     performing services in the Sinai Peninsula of Egypt shall be 
     entitled to tax benefits in the same manner as if such 
     services were performed in a combat zone; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Franken, Mr. Blunt, and 
             Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 705. A bill to amend the National Child Protection Act 
     of 1993 to establish a national criminal history background 
     check system and criminal history review program for certain 
     individuals who, related to their employment, have access to 
     children, the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FRANKEN:
       S. 706. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the treatment of medical evidence provided by non-
     Department of Veterans Affairs medical professionals in 
     support of claims for disability compensation under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 707. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to ensure that pass-through businesses do not pay tax at a 
     higher rate than corporations; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Brown, and 
             Mrs. Capito):
       S. 708. A bill to improve the ability of U.S. Customs and 
     Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, other synthetic 
     opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances that 
     are illegally imported into the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 709. A bill to prohibit the Administrator of the Federal 
     Emergency Management Agency from taking administrative action 
     to recover certain payments for disaster or emergency 
     assistance, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

[[Page S1974]]

  

           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 710. A bill to reinstate and extend the deadline for 
     commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project 
     involving Jennings Randolph Dam; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. 
             Roberts):
       S. 711. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for S corporation reform, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. King, 
             Mr. Kaine, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Casey, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Van Hollen, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mr. Sanders, Mr. Udall, Ms. Hirono, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Warner, Mr. Brown, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 712. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     reform the rights and processes relating to appeals of 
     decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 713. A bill to establish the Mountains to Sound Greenway 
     National Heritage Area in the State of Washington; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 714. A bill to amend Public Law 103-434 to authorize 
     Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Water Basin Water 
     Enhancement Project for the purposes of improving water 
     management in the Yakima River basin, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KING (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 715. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     release on behalf of the United States the condition that 
     certain lands conveyed to the City of Old Town, Maine, be 
     used for a municipal airport, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mrs. Capito, 
             Mr. Isakson, Mr. Barrasso, and Mr. Lee):
       S. 716. A bill to require that any debt limit increase be 
     balanced by equal spending cuts over the next decade; to the 
     Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Ms. Murkowski, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Cornyn, and 
             Mr. Daines):
       S. 717. A bill to promote pro bono legal services as a 
     critical way in which to empower survivors of domestic 
     violence; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Boozman, 
             and Mr. Franken):
       S. 718. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     make college affordable and accessible; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Daines, Mr. Peters, 
             Ms. Duckworth, and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 719. A bill to establish a grant program at the 
     Department of Homeland Security to promote cooperative 
     research and development between the United States and Israel 
     on cybersecurity; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 720. A bill to amend the Export Administration Act of 
     1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts against 
     allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
     international governmental organizations against Israel and 
     to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United States to 
     oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. 
             Carper):
       S. 721. A bill to require the disclosure of certain visitor 
     access records; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CORKER (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Rubio, 
             Mr. Cardin, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Casey, Mr. Cruz, Mr. 
             Bennet, Mr. Risch, Mr. Coons, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Young, and Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 722. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
     relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for 
     acts of international terrorism, and violations of human 
     rights, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.

                          ____________________



