

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S59]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, andreferred as indicated:

           By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Young, 
             Mr.Rounds, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Gardner, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. 
             Cotton, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Daines,Mr. McCain, Mr. 
             Scott, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Thune, 
             Mr. Inhofe, Mrs.Fischer, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Boozman, 
             Mr. Heller, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Lee, 
             Mr.Roberts, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Moran, and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 21. A bill to amendchapter 8 of title 5, United States 
     Code, to provide that major rules of the executive branch 
     shall have no force or effectunless a joint resolution of 
     approval is enacted into law; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 22. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code,to 
     prohibit the further extension or establishment of national 
     monuments in the State of Nevada except by express 
     authorizationof Congress; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 23. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to adopt 
     andimplement a standard identification protocol for use in 
     the tracking and procurement of biological implants by the 
     Department ofVeterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 24. A bill to expand eligibility for hospital care and 
     medical services under section 101 of theVeterans Access, 
     Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to include veterans 
     who are age 75 or older, and for other purposes; tothe 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, and 
             Mr.Schatz):
       S. 25. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     increase the credit foremployers establishing workplace child 
     care facilities, to increase the child care credit to 
     encourage greater use of qualitychild care services, to 
     provide incentives for students to earn child care-related 
     degrees and to work in child care facilities,and to increase 
     the exclusion for employer-provided dependent care 
     assistance; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, Mr. 
             Cardin, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr.Kaine, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Murphy, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Udall, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 26. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 
     to require the disclosure of certain tax returns byPresidents 
     and certain candidates for the office of the President, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules 
     andAdministration.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Leahy, 
             Mr.Carper, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 27. A bill to establish an independent commission 
     toexamine and report on the facts regarding the extent of 
     Russian official and unofficial cyber operations and other 
     attempts tointerfere in the 2016 United States national 
     election, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules 
     and Administration.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. Johnson):
       S. 28. A bill toamend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     expand the permissible use of health savings accounts to 
     include health insurancepayments and to increase the dollar 
     limitation for contributions to health savings accounts, and 
     for other purposes; to theCommittee on Finance.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 29. A bill to permit disabled law enforcement officers, 
     customs and border protection officers, firefighters, 
     airtraffic controllers, nuclear materials couriers, members 
     of the Capitol Police, members of the Supreme Court Police, 
     employeesof the Central Intelligence Agency performing 
     intelligence activities abroad or having specialized security 
     requirements, anddiplomatic security special agents of the 
     Department of State to receive retirement benefits in the 
     same manner as if they hadnot been disabled; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHUMER(for Mrs. Feinstein (for herself, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Franken, 
             Mr.Tillis, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Markey, and Mr. 
             Flake)):
       S. 30. A bill toextend the civil statute of limitations for 
     victims of Federal sex offenses; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for Mrs. Feinstein (for herself, Mr. 
             Wyden, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Merkley, Mrs.Murray, and Ms. 
             Harris)):
       S. 31. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
     Actto permanently prohibit the conduct of offshore drilling 
     on the outer Continental Shelf off the coast of California, 
     Oregon, andWashington; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SHELBY:
       S.J. Res. 3. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States which requires(except 
     during time of war and subject to suspension by Congress) 
     that the total amount of money expended by the United 
     Statesduring any fiscal year not exceed the amount of certain 
     revenue received by the United States during such fiscal year 
     and notexceed 20 percent of the gross domestic product of the 
     United States during the previous calendar year; to the 
     Committee on theJudiciary.

                          ____________________



