

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1304-S1305]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. King, Mr. Portman, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Hoeven, 
             Mr. Carper, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Kaine, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mrs. Murray, and Ms. Collins):
       S. 405. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     and the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide an exclusion 
     from income for student loan forgiveness for students who 
     have died or become disabled; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Paul, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Daines, Mr. Tester, and Mr. Lee):
       S. 406. A bill to repeal certain amendments made to rule 41 
     of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Inhofe, 
             Mr. Wyden, Mr. Moran, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Wicker, Mr. 
             Casey, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
             Heller, and Mr. Thune):
       S. 407. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permanently extend the railroad track maintenance credit; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Ms. Stabenow, 
             Mr. Schumer, Mr. Brown, Mr. Casey, Mr. Menendez, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Leahy, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Feinstein, and Mr. Reed):
       S. 408. A bill to require the President to disclose income, 
     assets, and liabilities associated with countries with which 
     the United States is negotiating a trade or investment 
     agreement, countries subject to presidential determinations 
     in trade enforcement actions, and countries eligible for 
     trade preference programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 409. A bill to provide that the President must seek 
     congressional approval before engaging members of the United 
     States Armed Forces in military humanitarian operations; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. CRAPO:
       S. 410. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the transfer of unused Post-9/11 Educational 
     Assistance benefits to additional dependents upon the death 
     of the originally designated dependent; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. 
             Coons, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Franken, Ms. 
             Harris, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. 
             Murray, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
             Wyden, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Kaine, and 
             Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 411. A bill to eliminate racial, religious, and other 
     discriminatory profiling by law enforcement, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 412. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to require State and local coordination on cybersecurity with 
     the national cybersecurity and communications integration 
     center, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Lankford, 
             Mr. Grassley, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Boozman, 
             and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 413. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to prohibit prescription drug plan sponsors and MA-PD 
     organizations under the Medicare program from retroactively 
     reducing payment on clean claims submitted by pharmacies; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 414. A bill to promote conservation, improve public land 
     management, and provide for sensible development in Pershing 
     County, Nevada, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Coons, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Franken, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Markey, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Harris, 
             Mrs. Murray, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Menendez, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 415. A bill to nullify the effect of the recent 
     executive order that makes the vast majority of unauthorized 
     individuals priorities for removal and aims to withhold 
     critical Federal funding to sanctuary cities; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 416. A bill to amend the Small Business Investment 
     Incentive Act of 1980 to require an annual review by the 
     Securities and Exchange Commission of the annual government-
     business forum on capital formation; to the Committee on 
     Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Cotton, and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 417. A bill to reinstate reporting requirements related 
     to United States-Hong Kong relations; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Rubio, and 
             Mr. Coons):
       S. 418. A bill to require reporting on the implementation 
     of Government Accountability Office recommendations by the 
     Department of State and the United States Agency for 
     International Development; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Hatch, and Mr. Coons):
       S. 419. A bill to require adequate reporting on the Public 
     Safety Officers' Benefits program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Sasse, and 
             Mr. Perdue):
       S. 420. A bill to require the President to report on the 
     use by the Government of Iran of commercial aircraft and 
     related services for illicit military or other activities, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself and Mr. Udall):
       S. 421. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     protect low-income Lifeline subscribers by mandating a 
     continuing role for States in designating eligible 
     telecommunications carriers for participation in the 
     Universal Service program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Daines, Mr. 
             Tester, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Markey, Ms. Murkowski, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Leahy, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. 
             Heitkamp, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Wyden, Mr. Casey, Mr. Kaine, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
             Warner, Mr. Peters, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Blunt, and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 422. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify presumptions relating to the exposure of certain 
     veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic of 
     Vietnam, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Stabenow, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Brown, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Manchin, 
             Mrs. Murray, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Reed, and Mr. Udall):
       S. 423. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     increase the maximum age for children eligible for medical 
     care under the CHAMPVA program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 424. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     include certain Federal positions within the definition of 
     law enforcement officer for retirement purposes, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Cochran, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Wicker, and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 425. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to improve the historic rehabilitation tax credit, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. 
             Brown):
       S. 426. A bill to increase educational assistance provided 
     by the Department of Veterans Affairs for education and 
     training of physician assistants of the Department, to 
     establish pay grades and require competitive

[[Page S1305]]

     pay for physician assistants of the Department, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 427. A bill to enhance Social Security benefits and 
     ensure the long-term solvency of the Social Security program; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Portman, 
             Ms. Harris, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Gardner, and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 428. A bill to amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social 
     Security Act to authorize States to provide coordinated care 
     to children with complex medical conditions through enhanced 
     pediatric health homes, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. McCONNELL (for himself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 429. A bill to exempt the aging process of distilled 
     spirits from the production period for purposes of 
     capitalization of interest costs; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. 
             Rubio):
       S. 430. A bill to provide for compliance enforcement 
     regarding Russian violations of the Intermediate-Range 
     Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Schatz, and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 431. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to expand the use of telehealth for individuals with 
     stroke; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Udall):
       S. 432. A bill to designate the Cerro del Yuta and Rio San 
     Antonio Wilderness Areas in the State of New Mexico, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ:
       S. 433. A bill for the relief of Malachy McAllister, Nicola 
     McAllister, and Sean Ryan McAllister; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 434. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to qualify homeless youth and veterans who are full-time 
     students for purposes of the low income housing tax credit; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 435. A bill to establish programs to improve family 
     economic security by breaking the cycle of multigenerational 
     poverty, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Udall):
       S. 436. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to retire coal preference right lease applications for which 
     the Secretary has made an affirmative commercial quantities 
     determination, to substitute certain land selections of the 
     Navajo Nation, to designate certain wilderness areas, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 437. A bill to provide for environmental oversight and 
     remediation activities at Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage 
     Facility; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CRUZ:
       S.J. Res. 23. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Labor relating to drug testing 
     of unemployment compensation applicants; to the Committee on 
     Finance.

                          ____________________



