

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S356]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       CONFIRMATION OF JOHN KELLY

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I voted in favor of the nomination of Gen. 
John Kelly to be U.S. Secretary of HomelandSecurity, and I am 
submitting this statement to explain my vote.
  This nomination is not a referendum on President DonaldTrump's 
immigration policy. If it were, I would have voted against the 
nomination.
  In considering this nomination, thequestions are whether General 
Kelly is unqualified to serve as Homeland Security Secretary and 
whether his views are too extremeto lead our homeland security and 
immigration enforcement efforts. In my view, General Kelly easily 
passes both tests.
  Gen.John Kelly is clearly qualified to head up the Homeland Security 
Department. He served honorably in the U.S. Marine Corps formore than 
four decades, first as an enlistee and later as an officer, culminating 
in his role as commander of U.S. SouthernCommand. As SOUTHCOM 
commander, Kelly oversaw a variety of operations in the Caribbean, 
Central America, and South America fromheadquarters in Miami.
  General Kelly knows better than most what is at stake in our efforts 
to protect our Nation from harm.He served three tours in Iraq, and in 
2010, his son, Marine 1st Lt. Robert Michael Kelly, 29, was killed in 
southern Afghanistanwhile leading his platoon on a combat patrol when 
he stepped on a concealed bomb. He is the highest ranking military 
officer tolose a child in combat in Afghanistan or Iraq.
  I am sure that I will disagree with General Kelly on some occasions, 
but hedoes not have a track record of extreme statements on immigration 
or the other issues that will be under his jurisdiction asHomeland 
Security Secretary.
  I know that some of my Democratic colleagues voted against General 
Kelly's nomination becausehe refused to publicly commit to keeping the 
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals--DACA--program in place and to 
protecting DACArecipients from deportations. Reasonable people can 
disagree, and I respect my colleagues who are voting against General 
Kelly'snomination, but I don't believe this justifies opposing this 
nomination.
  There is no one in the Senate who is more committedthan I to 
protecting the DACA program and no one who has worked harder to protect 
the young immigrants who are eligible for thisprogram. Seven years ago, 
I was the first Member of Congress to ask President Obama to establish 
the DACA program. DACA is basedon the DREAM Act, legislation I first 
introduced 16 years ago that would give undocumented students who grew 
up in this countrya chance to earn their citizenship.
  The young people who are eligible for DACA and the DREAM Act are 
known as DREAMers. Overthe years, I have met hundreds of DREAMers and I 
have come to the floor more than 100 times to tell these DREAMers' 
stories,which make the case for DACA and the DREAM Act better than I 
ever could.
  Last week, General Kelly came to my office to meetwith me. We spent 
most of our time discussing DACA and the DREAMers. General Kelly 
promised me that, if he was confirmed, hewould be a part of the 
discussions about the future of DACA. He said that he felt strongly 
that DREAMers should be protectedfrom deportation and that he would 
fight for that view. General Kelly also committed that he would come to 
Chicago with me tomeet with a group of DREAMers and to visit an 
immigration detention center, so that he would understand the human 
impact of thelaws he will be enforcing.
  Based on these assurances, I am pleased to be able to support General 
Kelly's nomination. But letme be clear. If General Kelly supports an 
effort by the new administration to rescind DACA or deport DREAMers, I 
will fight himtooth and nail.
  I congratulate General Kelly on his confirmation, and I look forward 
to working with him on the criticalissues under his jurisdiction, 
especially the future of DACA and the DREAMers.
  Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, today I voted against the confirmation of 
General John Kelly to be Secretary of HomelandSecurity. I have deep 
concerns about the homeland security policies that President Trump 
advocated during the campaign, and Iworry that as Secretary of Homeland 
Security, General Kelly will feel it necessary to work to advance those 
reckless policies.For instance, General Kelly was unable to promise the 
Senate that the administration will refrain from deporting our 
nation'sDREAMers, and I am troubled by his stated plans to reverse the 
Deferred Action for Child Arrivals, DACA, program. Furthermore,General 
Kelly did not provide sufficient assurance that he fully opposes the 
President's wasteful and misguided plan for aborder wall.
  However, now that he has been confirmed, it is my hope that Secretary 
Kelly will be the voice of reason in thedeliberations to shape the 
Trump administration's homeland security policy and that many of the 
reckless ideas candidate Trumpespoused during the election will never 
become reality.
  While I voted against General Kelly, I recognize and appreciate 
hislong and distinguished career in the marines. I believe this 
experience, particularly his final assignment as head of the 
U.S.Southern Command, will serve him well. In addition, I am encouraged 
by several statements General Kelly made during hisconfirmation 
hearing--statements that are at odds with the dangerous comments 
President Trump made during the campaign.
  Atthe hearing, General Kelly spoke out against the use of torture and 
said the U.S. should always abide by the Geneva Conventions.He did 
state that building a wall along the southern border was not an 
effective way to secure the border, though he has notpromised to oppose 
such a plan. He agreed with the intelligence community's assessment 
that Russia was responsible for hackinginto our elections. He said that 
surveilling mosques and targeting Muslims as security threats was 
unacceptable. Finally, hesaid the sweeping collection of data on 
Americans violated the right to privacy and a much more focused effort 
is needed.
  General Kelly has a reputation for speaking truth to power--I 
sincerely hope he does so as a member of the Cabinet, and Ihope the 
President will listen. New Mexico is a majority-minority border State 
with thousands of hard-working families nowliving in fear of President 
Trump's immigration plans. Unfortunately, I am deeply concerned that 
General Kelly will be theinstrument of the President's harmful and 
backwards homeland security agenda.

                          ____________________



