

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1891-S1893]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 26

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 26, a bill to amend the 
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require the disclosure of certain 
tax returns by Presidents and certain candidates for the office of the 
President, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 65

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 65, a bill to address 
financial conflicts of interest of the President and Vice President.


                                 S. 130

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 130, a bill to require 
enforcement against misbranded milk alternatives.


                                 S. 188

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 188, a bill to prohibit the 
use of Federal funds for the costs of painting portraits of officers 
and employees of the Federal Government.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to 
provide immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose 
potential examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to reform taxation of alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 260, a bill to repeal the 
provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act providing 
for the Independent Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care services 
for veterans.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 378

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 378, a bill to amend titles 5 and 28, United States 
Code, to require the maintenance of databases on awards of fees and 
other expenses to prevailing parties in certain administrative 
proceedings and court cases to which the United States is a party, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) and the 
Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added as cosponsors of S. 
382, a bill to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
develop a voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 384, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the new markets tax 
credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the 
railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker), the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) and the 
Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) were added as cosponsors of S. 422, 
a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions 
relating to the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity 
of the Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 438

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 438, a bill to encourage effective, voluntary 
investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and women who have 
served in the United States military with annual Federal awards to 
employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) and the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 445, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to ensure more timely access to home health services for 
Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.
  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, supra.


                                 S. 461

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 461, a bill to 
allow Homeland Security Grant Program funds to be used to safeguard 
faith-based community centers across the United States, and for other 
purposes.

[[Page S1892]]

  



                                 S. 464

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 464, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for a permanent Independence at Home medical 
practice program under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance 
under Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of 
whether therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 480

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 480, a bill 
to reauthorize the Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal 
Stamp.


                                 S. 493

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), the Senator from 
North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 493, a bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to provide for the removal or demotion of employees of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs based on performance or misconduct, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Carper) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 512, a bill to modernize the regulation 
of nuclear energy.


                                 S. 537

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 537, a bill to amend 
title 9 of the United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority 
of States to tax certain income of employees for employment duties 
performed in other States.


                                 S. 544

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 544, a bill to amend Veterans Access, Choice, and 
Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the termination date for the 
Veterans Choice Program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 546

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 546, a bill to 
reduce temporarily the royalty required to be paid for sodium produced 
on Federal lands, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 567

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 567, a bill to amend the 
Home Owners' Loan Act to allow Federal savings associations to elect to 
operate as national banks, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 573

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 573, a bill to establish the 
National Criminal Justice Commission.


                                 S. 576

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 576, a bill to amend title 
5, United States Code, to extend certain protections against prohibited 
personnel practices, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 582

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 582, a bill to reauthorize 
the Office of Special Counsel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill 
to expand eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for 
family caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand 
benefits available to participants under such program, to enhance 
special compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to 
amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 618

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 618, a bill to amend chapter 44 
of title 18, United States Code, to more comprehensively address the 
interstate transportation of firearms or ammunition.


                                 S. 625

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van 
Hollen) were added as cosponsors of S. 625, a bill to preserve the 
integrity of American elections by providing the Attorney General with 
the investigative tools to identify and prosecute foreign agents who 
seek to circumvent Federal registration requirements and unlawfully 
influence the political process.


                                 S. 630

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 630, a bill 
to amend the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 to make 2,500 visas 
available for the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa program, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 635

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 635, a bill to 
amend title 28, United States Code, to prohibit the exclusion of 
individuals from service on a Federal jury on account of sexual 
orientation or gender identity.


                                 S. 636

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 636, a bill to allow 
Americans to earn paid sick time so that they can address their own 
health needs and the health needs of their families.


                                 S. 657

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 657, a bill to provide for 
the publication by the Secretary of Health and Human Services of 
physical activity recommendations for Americans.


                                 S. 659

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 659, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to the People's Republic of China in relation to 
activities in the South China Sea and the East China Sea, and for other 
purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Toomey) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 27, a joint resolution 
disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of Labor relating to 
``Clarification of Employer's Continuing Obligation to Make and 
Maintain an Accurate Record of Each Recordable Injury and Illness''.


                              S.J. RES. 34

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 34, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal 
Communications Commission relating to ``Protecting the Privacy of 
Customers of Broadband and Other Telecommunications Services''.


                               S. RES. 83

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) and the Senator from

[[Page S1893]]

Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 83, a 
resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the trafficking 
of illicit fentanyl into the United States from Mexico and China.

                          ____________________



