

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S347-S348]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   INAUGURATION AND CABINET NOMINEES

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, inNovember's election, the people 
called for a new direction, a change from the last 8 years. Today, we 
took a meaningful steptoward that new direction as we inaugurated a new 
President of the United States.
  I think it is important for allAmericans--regardless of party--to 
remember the significance of inauguration day. As we celebrate our 
Nation's rich electoraltradition, we can begin to move our country 
forward together.
  It is always an honor to participate in the historicaltransition of 
power and the ceremonies surrounding it. Today was certainly no 
exception. On behalf of the Senate, I wish toexpress our gratitude to 
each individual, from law enforcement personnel to Inaugural Committee 
staff, to congressional staff ofvolunteers whose efforts made this 
event a success.
  I wish to again congratulate President Trump and Vice PresidentPence 
on today's inauguration. We are eager to work with you and the 
administration in advancing policies that can improvethe lives of the 
American people.
  Today marks a new beginning. We are faced with many new 
opportunities. We are faced withsome new challenges too. I will have 
more to say on that in the coming days. For now, the Senate remains 
hard at work as we moveforward with the confirmation process on 
President Trump's nominees. We will have an opportunity to confirm some 
today.
  Itis imperative to proceed with confirmations without delay, 
especially when it comes to key national and economic security needs.I 
urge colleagues to remember that we worked with the administration of 
former President Obama after he was first inaugurated.We confirmed 
seven--seven--members of his Cabinet on the day he took office and 
nearly the entire Cabinet was filled within 2weeks.
  I wish to say, parenthetically, there is a lot the minority can do at 
the very beginning by refusing to give consentto drag this out, and 
that is what apparently is occurring here. The nominations we are not 
doing are not even controversial.
  I would hope the feeling around here would be at least on day one to 
have some level of cooperation. We should work in thesame spirit with 
the current administration and put the rest of President Trump's team 
in place as soon as possible.Specifically, it is important that we 
confirm General Mattis and General Kelly to their crucial positions as 
the Secretaries ofDefense and Homeland Security.
  That is not enough. We live in dangerous times. As the Democratic 
leader noted earlier justtoday, ``We face threats foreign and 
domestic.'' It is critical for the President to have a full national 
security team today,day one. That includes, in particular, the Director 
of the CIA. It makes no sense to

[[Page S348]]

leave the post open, not for anotherweek, not for another day, not for 
another hour. America's enemies will not pause in plotting, planning, 
and training simplybecause the Democrats refuse to vote. The American 
people expect more.
  Earlier today, the Director and Deputy Director ofthe CIA resigned. 
They left. They are gone. The Director's job is open and unfilled. We 
need to confirm a new Director today. Weneed to confirm the rest of the 
Cabinet as quickly as we can.
  Republicans treated a newly inaugurated President Obama'snominees 
fairly, and our Democratic friends should do so now. Our country is 
counting on it. I am told we want to have somedebate about this. We 
will have as much debate time, starting right now, as our Democratic 
colleagues would like, but at the endof the debate, today--not Monday--
we should install a new CIA Director.

                          ____________________



