

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2150]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO HOT SHOTS INC.

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, known for its diverse natural 
resources and awe-inspiring landscapes, Idaho is a place of countless 
possibilities, where citizens with determination and ambition can lay 
the foundation for their own success. I am particularly proud of my 
home State's entrepreneurs who continue to pioneer new enterprises that 
bring our communities together and inspire a creative spirit in 
Idahoans across the State. These traits are well represented in this 
month's Small Business of the Month. As chairman of the Senate 
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I am pleased to honor 
Hot Shots Inc. delivery service as the Senate Small Business of the 
Month for March 2017.
  Founded by Lance and Mary Curtis, Hot Shots Inc. is a family-owned 
and operated small business headquartered in Boise, ID. The innovative 
vision of the company is driven by a management team with over 50 years 
of combined experience in courier services. Hot Shots Inc. has provided 
delivery services in the Boise area since 1998. Their offerings are 
distinct in that they are capable of delivering anything from small 
parcels to large freight throughout the Treasure Valley, Sun Valley, 
Magic Valley, and Twin Falls, all with a same-day guarantee. Over the 
years, this company has earned and maintained a high level of trust in 
the Boise area, as is evident through their special delivery service 
which allows them to access a number of secure locations such as 
corporate, banking, medical, government, and military sites. Part of 
what makes Hot Shots Inc. a successful enterprise is its use of modern 
technology, specifically its utilization of an online ordering system, 
a GPS package tracking system, and an email notification system. The 
company has adapted with technological advances, making all of these 
changes to support mobile transactions. All of these advances help 
instill confidence in every customer that his or her package, parcel, 
or shipment will arrive on time. This commitment to customer service 
has helped the company excel in its field and allowed Hot Shots Inc. to 
enter new markets such as warehousing.
  Hot Shots Inc. has been a pillar of the community since they first 
opened their doors. This family-run business has displayed its 
commitment to the Boise community in a variety of ways, whether by 
delivering diapers for the Idaho Diaper Bank or through their support 
of the Idaho Foodbank Backpack Program, among other community service 
activities. I would like to extend my sincerest congratulations to 
Lance and Mary Curtis and the employees of Hot Shots Inc. for being 
chosen as the March 2017 Small Business of the Month. You make our 
great State proud, and I look forward to watching your continued growth 
and success.

                          ____________________



