

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 47 (Friday, March 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 47 (Friday, March 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2155-H2167]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




IMPROVING AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO HIRE AND RETAIN 
                     PHYSICIANS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Harper). Pursuant to House Resolution 
198 and rule XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of 
the Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration 
of the bill, H.R. 1367.
  Will the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Simpson) kindly take the chair.

                              {time}  0915


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 1367) to improve the authority of the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to hire

[[Page H2156]]

and retain physicians and other employees of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes, with Mr. Simpson (Acting Chair) in the 
chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The Acting CHAIR. When the Committee of the Whole House rose on 
Thursday, March 16, 2017, all time for general debate had expired.
  Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the 5-minute rule.
  It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose 
of amendment under the 5-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 115-6. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read.
  The text of the amendment in the nature of a substitute is as 
follows:

                               H.R. 1367

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Table of contents.
Sec. 2. Modification to annual determination of staffing shortages in 
              Veterans Health Administration.
Sec. 3. Executive management fellowship program.
Sec. 4. Accountability of leaders for managing the Department of 
              Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 5. Modification to veterans preference.
Sec. 6. Reemployment of former employees.
Sec. 7. Recruiting database.
Sec. 8. Human resources academy.
Sec. 9. Promotional opportunities for technical experts.
Sec. 10. Comptroller General study on succession planning.
Sec. 11. Information on hiring effectiveness.
Sec. 12. Employment of students and recent graduates.
Sec. 13. Exit surveys.

     SEC. 2. MODIFICATION TO ANNUAL DETERMINATION OF STAFFING 
                   SHORTAGES IN VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION.

       Section 7412(a) of title 38, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``the five occupations'' and inserting 
     ``the five clinical occupations and the five nonclinical 
     occupations''; and
       (2) by striking ``throughout the Department'' and inserting 
     ``with respect to each medical center of the Department,''.

     SEC. 3. EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

       (a) Fellowship Program.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new subchapter:

       ``SUBCHAPTER III--EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM

     ``Sec. 741. Executive Management Fellowship Program

       ``(a) Fellowship Program.--There is in the Department an 
     Executive Management Fellowship Program. The purpose of the 
     program shall be to provide--
       ``(1) eligible employees of the Veterans Benefits 
     Administration and the Veterans Health Administration with 
     training and experience in the private sector; and
       ``(2) eligible employees of a private-sector entity with 
     training and experience in the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs.
       ``(b) Fellowship.--(1) A fellowship provided under this 
     section is a one-year fellowship during which--
       ``(A) with respect to a Department participant, the 
     participant receives training and experience at a private-
     sector entity that is engaged in the administration and 
     delivery of health care or other services similar to the 
     benefits administered by the Secretary; and
       ``(B) with respect to a private-sector participant, the 
     participant receives training and experience at the Veterans 
     Benefits Administration or the Veterans Health 
     Administration.
       ``(2) The Secretary shall enter into such agreements with 
     private-sector entities as are necessary to carry out this 
     section.
       ``(c) Selection of Recipients.--(1) In August of each year, 
     the Secretary shall select--
       ``(A) not fewer than 18 and not more than 30 eligible 
     employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration and the 
     Veterans Health Administration to receive a fellowship under 
     this section; and
       ``(B) not fewer than 18 and not more than 30 eligible 
     employees of private-sector entities to receive a fellowship 
     under this section.
       ``(2) To the extent practicable, the Secretary shall select 
     eligible employees under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
     paragraph (1) from among eligible employees who are veterans 
     in a manner that is reflective of the demographics of the 
     veteran population of the United States.
       ``(d) Eligible Employees.--For the purposes of this 
     section, an eligible employee is--
       ``(1) with respect to an employee of the Veterans Benefits 
     Administration or the Veterans Health Administration, an 
     employee who--
       ``(A) is compensated at a rate of basic pay not less than 
     the minimum rate of basic pay payable for grade GS-14 of the 
     General Schedule and not more than either the minimum rate of 
     basic pay payable to a member of the Senior Executive Service 
     under section 5382 of title 5, United States Code, or the 
     minimum rate of basic pay payable pursuant to chapter 74 of 
     this title, as the case may be;
       ``(B) enters into an agreement with the Secretary under 
     subsection (e); and
       ``(C) submits to the Secretary an application containing 
     such information and assurances as the Secretary may require; 
     and
       ``(2) with respect to an employee of a private-sector 
     entity, an employee who--
       ``(A) is employed in a position whose duties and 
     responsibilities are commensurate with an employee of the 
     Department described in paragraph (1);
       ``(B) enters into an agreement with the Secretary under 
     subsection (e); and
       ``(C) submits to the Secretary an application containing 
     such information and assurances as the Secretary may require.
       ``(e) Agreements.--(1) An agreement between the Secretary 
     and a Department participant shall be in writing, shall be 
     signed by the participant, and shall include the following 
     provisions:
       ``(A) The Secretary's agreement to provide the participant 
     with a fellowship under this section;
       ``(B) The participant's agreement--
       ``(i) to accept the fellowship;
       ``(ii) after completion of the fellowship, to serve as a 
     full-time employee in the Veterans Benefits Administration or 
     the Veterans Health Administration for at least two years as 
     specified in the agreement; and
       ``(iii) that, during the two-year period beginning on the 
     last day of the fellowship, the participant will not accept 
     employment in the same industry as the industry of the 
     private-sector entity at which the participant accepts the 
     fellowship.
       ``(C) A provision that any financial obligation of the 
     United States arising out of an agreement entered into under 
     this subchapter, and any obligation of the participant which 
     is conditioned on such agreement, is contingent upon funds 
     being appropriated.
       ``(D) A statement of the damages to which the United States 
     is entitled under this subchapter for the participant's 
     breach of the agreement.
       ``(E) Such other terms as the Secretary determines are 
     required to be included in the agreement.
       ``(2) An agreement between the Secretary and a private-
     sector participant shall be in writing, shall be signed by 
     the participant, and shall include the following provisions:
       ``(A) The Secretary's agreement to provide the participant 
     with a fellowship under this section.
       ``(B) The participant's agreement to accept the fellowship.
       ``(C) Such other terms as the Secretary determines are 
     required to be included in the agreement.
       ``(f) Treatment of Recipients.--(1) A Department 
     participant shall be considered an employee of the Department 
     for all purposes, including for purposes of receiving a 
     salary and benefits, and shall remain eligible for all 
     promotion and incentive programs otherwise available to such 
     an employee.
       ``(2) A private-sector participant shall be considered an 
     employee of the private-sector entity that employs the 
     participant for all purposes, including for purposes of 
     receiving a salary and benefits, and during the fellowship 
     shall be treated as a contractor of the Department.
       ``(g) Reports.--Not later than 60 days after completing a 
     fellowship under this section, a recipient of the fellowship 
     shall submit to the Secretary a report on the fellowship. 
     Each such report shall describe the duties of the recipient 
     during the fellowship and any recommendations of the 
     recipient for the application by the Secretary of industry 
     processes, technologies, and best practices. Not later than 
     seven days after receiving each such report, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 
     Senate and House of Representatives such report without 
     change.
       ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `Department participant' means an employee 
     of the Veterans Benefits Administration or the Veterans 
     Health Administration who is participating in the fellowship 
     under this section.
       ``(2) The term `private-sector entity' includes an entity 
     operating under a public-private partnership.
       ``(3) The term `private-sector participant' means an 
     employee of a private-sector entity who is participating in 
     the fellowship under this section.''.
       (b) Deadline for Implementation.--Not later than 90 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs shall implement the Executive Management 
     Fellowship Program required under section 741 of title 38, 
     United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new items:

       ``subchapter iii--executive management fellowship program

``741. Executive Management Fellowship Program.''.

[[Page H2157]]

  


     SEC. 4. ACCOUNTABILITY OF LEADERS FOR MANAGING THE DEPARTMENT 
                   OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after section 717 the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 719. Annual performance plan for political appointees

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct an annual 
     performance plan for each political appointee of the 
     Department that is similar to the annual performance plan 
     conducted for an employee of the Department who is appointed 
     as a career appointee (as that term is defined in section 
     3132(a)(4) of title 5) within the Senior Executive Service at 
     the Department.
       ``(b) Elements of Plan.--Each annual performance plan 
     conducted under subsection (a) with respect to a political 
     appointee of the Department shall include an assessment of 
     whether the appointee is meeting the following goals:
       ``(1) Recruiting, selecting, and retaining well-qualified 
     individuals for employment at the Department.
       ``(2) Engaging and motivating employees.
       ``(3) Training and developing employees and preparing those 
     employees for future leadership roles within the Department.
       ``(4) Holding each employee of the Department that is a 
     manager accountable for addressing issues relating to 
     performance, in particular issues relating to the performance 
     of employees that report to the manager.
       ``(c) Definition of Political Appointee.--In this section, 
     the term `political appointee' means an employee of the 
     Department who holds--
       ``(1) a position which has been excepted from the 
     competitive service by reason of its confidential, policy-
     determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character; 
     or
       ``(2) a position in the Senior Executive Service as a 
     noncareer appointee (as such term is defined in section 
     3132(a) of title 5).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 7 of such title is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 717 the following new 
     item:

``719. Annual performance plan for political appointees.''.

     SEC. 5. MODIFICATION TO VETERANS PREFERENCE.

       (a) Active Duty Requirement.--Section 2108(1)(B) and (D) of 
     title 5, United States Code, are amended by striking 
     ``consecutive'' in each instance it appears and inserting 
     ``cumulative''.
       (b) Expansion of Eligibility of Retired Veterans.--Section 
     2108(4) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as 
     follows:
       ``(4) `preference eligible' includes a retired member of 
     the armed forces; and''.

     SEC. 6. REEMPLOYMENT OF FORMER EMPLOYEES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
     noncompetitively appoint a qualified former employee to any 
     position within the competitive service or any excepted 
     service position under chapter 74 of title 38, United States 
     Code, at the Department of Veterans Affairs that is one grade 
     higher than the grade of the position at the Department most 
     recently occupied by the employee.
       (b) Limitation.--The Secretary may not appoint a qualified 
     former employee to a position that is more than one grade (or 
     equivalent) higher than the position at the Department most 
     recently occupied by the employee.
       (c) Definition of Qualified Former Employee.--For purposes 
     of this section, the term ``qualified former employee'' means 
     any individual who--
       (1) formerly occupied any position at the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs within two years before applying for 
     reemployment at the Department;
       (2) voluntarily left such position, or was subject to a 
     reduction in force, and had a satisfactory performance record 
     while occupying such position; and
       (3) since leaving such position has maintained licensing 
     requirements, related to the position, if any, and gained 
     skill, knowledge, or other factors related to the position.

     SEC. 7. RECRUITING DATABASE.

       (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     establish a single database that lists each vacant position 
     in the Department of Veterans Affairs that the Secretary 
     determines is critical to the mission of the Department, 
     difficult to fill, or both.
       (b) Qualified Applicant.--If the Secretary determines that 
     an applicant for a vacant position listed in the database 
     established under subsection (a) is qualified for such 
     position but does not select the applicant for such position, 
     the Secretary, at the election of the applicant, shall 
     consider the applicant for other similar vacant positions 
     listed in the database for which the applicant is qualified.
       (c) Prolonged Vacancies.--If the Secretary does not fill a 
     vacant position listed in the database established under 
     subsection (a) after a period determined appropriate by the 
     Secretary, the Secretary--
       (1) shall ensure that applicants described in subsection 
     (b) are considered for such position; and
       (2) shall use the database established under subsection (a) 
     to assist in filling such position.
       (d) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
     a report on the use and efficacy of the database established 
     under subsection (a).

     SEC. 8. HUMAN RESOURCES ACADEMY.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     provide to human resources professionals of the Veterans 
     Health Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     training on how to best recruit and retain employees of the 
     Veterans Health Administration, including with respect to any 
     recruitment and retention matters that are unique to the 
     Veterans Health Administration pursuant to chapter 74 of 
     title 38, United States Code, or other provisions of law. The 
     Secretary shall provide such training in a manner that the 
     Secretary determines appropriate in light of budget, travel, 
     and other constraints.
       (b) Amount of Training.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
     each human resources professional of the Veterans Health 
     Administration receives the training described in subsection 
     (a)--
       (1) as soon as practicable after being hired by the 
     Secretary as a human resource professional; and
       (2) annually thereafter.
       (c) Certification.--The Secretary shall require that each 
     human resources professional of the Veterans Health 
     Administration, upon the completion of the training described 
     in subsection (a), certifies that the professional received 
     the training and understands the information provided by the 
     training.
       (d) Annual Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate an annual report on the 
     training described in subsection (a), including the cost of 
     providing such training and the number of human resources 
     professionals who received such training during the year 
     covered by the report.

     SEC. 9. PROMOTIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR TECHNICAL EXPERTS.

       Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a 
     promotional track system for employees of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs that the Secretary determines are technical 
     experts pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
     for purposes of carrying out this section. Such system 
     shall--
       (1) provide any such employee the opportunity to advance 
     within the Department without being required to transition to 
     a management position; and
       (2) for purposes of achieving career advancement--
       (A) provide for the establishment of new positions within 
     the Department; and
       (B) notwithstanding any other provision of law, provide for 
     increases in pay for any such employee.

     SEC. 10. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON SUCCESSION PLANNING.

       (a) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
     shall conduct a study on each of the following:
       (1) The succession planning at each medical facility of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs.
       (2) The succession planning at the Veterans Benefits 
     Administration and the National Cemetery Administration of 
     the Department.
       (b) Elements.--The study under subsection (a) shall 
     include, for each entity studied under the study, the 
     following:
       (1) A determination of the mission-critical positions 
     within the entity and the vacancy risk of such positions.
       (2) An analysis of the future needs for mission-critical 
     positions and gaps within the existing talent pool of the 
     entity.
       (3) A description of strategies to close skill gaps through 
     the use of training for existing staff, targeted recruitment, 
     and hiring.
       (4) A plan to regularly evaluate progress of staff and 
     update existing succession plans using clear and measurable 
     metrics and benchmarks.
       (5) A demonstration of the capacity of the entity to 
     execute succession plans with successful succession 
     management strategies.
       (6) Any other matters the Comptroller General determines 
     appropriate.
       (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit 
     to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a report containing each study 
     conducted under subsection (a).

     SEC. 11. INFORMATION ON HIRING EFFECTIVENESS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     measure and collect information on indicators of hiring 
     effectiveness as follows:
       (1) With respect to recruiting and hiring--
       (A) the ability to reach and recruit well-qualified talent 
     from diverse talent pools, including sources of candidates 
     for mission-critical occupations;
       (B) the use and impact of special hiring authorities and 
     flexibilities to recruit most qualified applicants, including 
     the use of student internships as a talent pool for permanent 
     hires;
       (C) the use and impact of special hiring authorities and 
     flexibilities to recruit diverse candidates, including 
     veteran, minority and disabled candidates;
       (D) the use and impact of special hiring authorities and 
     flexibilities to recruit candidates for mission-critical 
     occupations and occupations with shortages;
       (E) the age, educational level, and source of applicants;

[[Page H2158]]

       (F) the length of time between the date on which a position 
     is advertised and the date on which a first offer of 
     employment is made;
       (G) the length of time between the date on which a first 
     offer of employment for a position is made and the date on 
     which a new hire starts in that position;
       (H) the number of internal and external applicants for 
     positions; and
       (I) the number of offers accepted compared to the number of 
     offers made for permanent positions.
       (2) With respect to the hiring authority--
       (A) the satisfaction of the hiring authority with--
       (i) the quality of new hires;
       (ii) the match between the skills of newly hired 
     individuals and the needs of the Department;
       (iii) the hiring process and hiring outcomes after the 
     first year of the employment of a new hire; and
       (iv) the length of time that elapses to fill a position and 
     for a new hire to begin working in a new position; and
       (B) mission-critical deficiencies filled by new hires and 
     the connection between mission-critical deficiencies and 
     annual agency performance.
       (3) Satisfaction of employment applicants with the hiring 
     process, including with respect to the clarity of job 
     announcement, reasons for withdrawal of applications, user-
     friendliness of the application process, communication 
     regarding status of application, and timeliness of hiring 
     decision.
       (4) With respect to a newly hired employee--
       (A) the satisfaction of the employee with the hiring 
     process as described in paragraph (3);
       (B) the satisfaction with the process of joining and 
     becoming oriented with the Department, including with respect 
     to the timeliness of such process after the hiring decision, 
     the orientation process, and being provided with timely and 
     useful new employee information and assistance after the hire 
     is made but before the new hire starts in that position and 
     after the new hire has begun;
       (C) attrition and reasons for leaving;
       (D) investment in training and development for the employee 
     during the first year of employment; and
       (E) significant barriers to the effective recruitment, 
     selection, joining and becoming oriented with the Department, 
     and retention of employees.
       (b) Disaggregation of Data.--To the extent practicable and 
     in a manner which protects personally identifiable 
     information of applicants and employees, the Secretary shall 
     collect and report data collected under subsection (a) 
     disaggregated by facility or Veterans Integrated Service 
     Network.
       (c) Reports.--
       (1) In general.--On an annual basis, the Secretary shall 
     submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a report of the information 
     collected under subsection (a).
       (2) Availability of recruiting and hiring information.--On 
     an annual basis, the Secretary shall make publicly available 
     the information collected under subsection (a) in a 
     consistent and machine-readable format to allow for a 
     comparison of hiring effectiveness and experience by Veterans 
     Integrated Service Network or comparable public or private 
     sector organization.

     SEC. 12. EMPLOYMENT OF STUDENTS AND RECENT GRADUATES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     prescribe regulations to allow for excepted service 
     appointments of students and recent graduates leading to 
     conversion to career or career conditional employment of a 
     student or recent graduate of a qualifying educational 
     institution, as defined by the Department.
       (b) Applicability.--The conversion authority described in 
     subsection (a) shall be applicable to individuals in good 
     standing who--
       (1) are employed in a qualifying internship or fellowship 
     program at the Department;
       (2) are employed in the Department in a volunteer capacity 
     and performing substantive duties comparable to those of 
     individuals in internship or fellowship programs and meet the 
     required number of hours for conversion; or
       (3) are employed in the Department under a contract or 
     agreement with an external nonprofit organization and 
     performing substantive duties comparable to those of 
     individuals in internship or fellowship programs.
       (c) Uniformity.--For the purposes of subsections (b)(2) and 
     (b)(3), hours of work performed by an individual employed 
     shall be considered equal to those performed by an individual 
     employed in a qualifying internship or fellowship program by 
     the Department.

     SEC. 13. EXIT SURVEYS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     develop and carry out a standardized exit survey to be 
     voluntarily completed by career and noncareer employees and 
     executives of the Department of Veterans Affairs who 
     voluntarily separate from the Department. Such exit survey 
     shall be developed in consultation with an appropriate non-
     Department entity with experience developing such surveys.
       (b) Survey Content.--The survey shall include, at a 
     minimum--
       (1) reasons for leaving the Department;
       (2) efforts made by the supervisor of the employee to 
     retain the individual;
       (3) the extent of job satisfaction and engagement during 
     the employment;
       (4) the intent of employee to either remain employed within 
     the Federal Government or to leave employment with the 
     Federal Government; and
       (5) such other matters as the Secretary determines 
     appropriate.
       (c) Anonymity of Survey Content.--The Secretary shall 
     ensure that, to the extent possible, data collected under 
     subsection (a) is anonymized and personally identifiable 
     information is removed.
       (d) Sharing of Survey Data.--The Secretary shall ensure 
     that the results of the survey required by subsection (a) are 
     shared on an annual basis with directors and managers of 
     facilities of the Department and the Veterans Integrated 
     Service Networks.
       (e) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate a report containing 
     the aggregate results of the exit survey under subsection (a) 
     covering the year prior to the report. The report shall 
     include--
       (1) an analysis of the most common reasons employees choose 
     to leave the Department;
       (2) steps the Secretary is taking to improve retention, 
     particularly for mission-critical occupations;
       (3) the demographic characteristics of employees choosing 
     to leave the Department;
       (4) any legislative barriers to improving employee 
     retention; and
       (5) the number of employees who took the exit survey under 
     subsection (a).

  The Acting CHAIR. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in part B of House 
Report 115-39. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order 
printed in the report, by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question.


                Amendment No. 1 Offered by Mr. Wenstrup

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 1 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 8, line 8, strike ``90 days'' and insert ``one year''.
       Page 12, line 12, strike ``shall'' and insert ``may''.
       Page 12, line 19, strike ``shall'' and insert ``may''.
       Page 12, line 21, strike ``shall'' and insert ``may''.
       Page 13, strike lines 11 through 13 and insert ``such 
     training virtually.''.
       Page 16, line 9, strike ``one year'' and insert ``two 
     years''.
       Page 16, beginning line 14, strike section 11.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. Wenstrup) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Ohio.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chair, my manager's amendment makes a number of 
minor technical changes to the reported version of the bill and would 
significantly reduce discretionary costs while maintaining the overall 
intent of the bill.
  The biggest change that would be made in the manager's amendment is 
the removal of section 11 of the bill, which would require the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to track a number of hiring 
effectiveness metrics.
  That section alone scored at $6 million because the Congressional 
Budget Office expected that the VA would have to hire an additional 
employee in each Veterans Integrated Service Network in order to gather 
that information. I disagree with that assertion and I intend to 
continue working on that provision to, hopefully, include it in future 
legislation in some form.
  In addition, the manager's amendment would authorize but not require 
the VA to track and match qualified job applicants for vacant positions 
using the recruiting database that the bill would establish. The CBO 
estimated that the VA would have to hire up to 40 additional employees 
with an average compensation of $100,000 per year to accomplish that 
task, meaning that provision in total would cost $19 million. Again, I 
disagree with the assertion that such a task could not be accomplished 
using existing staff.
  The Subcommittee on Health, which I am proud to chair, is holding an 
oversight hearing next week where I intend

[[Page H2159]]

to ask the VA how the Department would utilize the recruiting database 
and whether it would entail additional employees. Should it appear that 
the VA would not use the recruiting database to identify qualified 
candidates for open positions in a timely manner and to promptly fill 
prolonged vacancies, I will certainly reconsider mandating that in 
future legislation.
  The manager's amendment would also stipulate that the additional 
human resources training that the bill would require be done virtually. 
Finally, it would extend the timeline to implement the executive 
management fellowship program from 90 days to 1 year, which would 
provide the VA additional time to set up this important new leadership 
development program and would extend the GAO reporting deadline from 1 
to 2 years, which would provide the GAO additional time to complete 
their investigation into the VA succession planning.
  Mr. Chair, I urge the adoption of the amendment, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition, although I am 
not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Without objection, the gentleman from Minnesota is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Chairman, as mentioned last night during general debate 
on the underlying bill, the VA has experienced a shortage of medical 
providers. This shortage impacts not only a veteran's access to care, 
but also the quality of care a veteran may receive.
  Dr. Wenstrup's amendment is smart. It would allow the VA more 
authority, information, and resources, all of which they need to 
compete with non-VA facilities. The honorable Member from Ohio has 
worked hard to ensure that what we are proposing with this legislation 
is reasonable from all sides. I am grateful for that. I do not object 
to the various changes he is proposing with this amendment to the 
timeline, to the GAO reporting deadline, and to the establishment of a 
recruiting database from a ``shall'' to a ``may'' authority. This is 
exactly what we should be doing, putting forward good pieces of 
legislation, making sure that the VA gets the best possible people, 
keeps them there, and care for our veterans. I fully support the 
gentleman's amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Wenstrup).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                  Amendment No. 2 Offered by Ms. Meng

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 2 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Ms. MENG. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 2, line 2, strike ``the five clinical'' and insert 
     ``at a minimum, the five clinical''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. Meng) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from New York.
  Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, I thank Representative Wenstrup for his 
thoughtful amendment, and I thank Chairman Roe and Ranking Member Walz 
for bringing it to the floor today.
  Clearly, there are staffing shortages within the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and, clearly, something must be done. Personally, I 
think this legislation is a good first step toward improving the VA's 
ability to identify staffing shortages, recruit and retain high-quality 
employees, and onboard new hires.
  The amendment I am offering today speaks to the identification of 
staffing shortages portion of this bill. Under current law, 38 U.S.C. 
7412 to be exact, the inspector general of the VA is required to submit 
a report to the VA Secretary annually highlighting the five personnel 
occupations with the largest staffing shortages throughout the 
Department. After receiving this report, the Secretary is then 
permitted to recruit and directly appoint qualified individuals to fill 
those vacancies.
  Section 2 of the bill before us does something important to current 
law. It will require the IG to report on not just the five occupations 
with the largest staffing shortages, it will require the IG to report 
on the five clinical and five nonclinical occupations with the largest 
shortages in the VA. Additionally, it will require this reporting to be 
done for each medical center. Mr. Chair, I think this is a wonderful 
change, one that is sorely needed.
  What my amendment would do is add to this expanded reporting 
requirement a simple clarification: the IG must report on, at minimum, 
the five clinical and nonclinical occupations with the largest staffing 
shortages at each facility. It would allow the IG to report on more 
than the five occupations with the largest shortages, should his 
findings require it.
  This amendment is not an additional reporting requirement. It simply 
makes clear that should the IG find additional staffing shortages, he 
may highlight those so that the Secretary may fill them more quickly. 
It is a simple attempt to avoid the necessity of passing similar 
legislation 2, 3, or even 4 years from now.
  Our veterans need the care that they have earned and that they 
deserve. They need it now. The first step in that endeavor is making 
sure that the VA staffing levels are adequate.
  Again, Mr. Chair, I am pleased to see this amendment on the floor 
today and to do my small part in ensuring that veterans get the care 
they need. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, which would 
allow the VA inspector general to highlight additional staffing 
shortages within the Department.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time 
in opposition, although I am not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr, Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of Representative Meng's amendment, 
which would stipulate that the annual determination of Veterans Health 
Administration staffing shortages must include at least five clinical 
occupations and five nonclinical occupations within each VA medical 
center.
  This amendment rightfully recognizes that some VA medical centers may 
have staffing challenges that extend beyond just 10 occupations and 
provides sufficient flexibility for this reporting requirement--which 
triggers the VA's direct hiring authority--to accommodate that by 
reporting more than five clinical and five nonclinical occupations, as 
needed.
  I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment. 
I thank Representative Meng for submitting it.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. MENG. Mr. Chairman, I urge support for this amendment, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Meng).
  The amendment was agreed to.


            Amendment No. 3 Offered by Ms. Sewell of Alabama

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 3 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 4, line 2, before the period insert the following: 
     ``and that whenever practicable provides a preference to such 
     employees who represent or service rural areas''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentlewoman 
from Alabama (Ms. Sewell) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Alabama.
  Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Chair, today I rise in support of 
bipartisan work to enhance recruitment and retainment strategies at VA 
medical centers. While we focus on strengthening the VA workforce, we 
must also

[[Page H2160]]

focus on making sure the geographic diversity of our VA workforce is 
reflective of the veteran patient population and that rural populations 
are adequately represented.
  I thank Chairman Roe and Ranking Member Walz for working with me on 
this critically important amendment and for their dedication to our 
Nation's veterans.
  My amendment is simple. It allows the Secretary to select eligible 
employees for the fellowship program who represent or service rural 
communities in order to alleviate the systemic burdens of rural 
healthcare workforce shortages for our Nation's veterans. In order to 
best serve our Nation's heroes from rural America, we must invest in 
training VA workers who understand the unique needs of rural America.
  This amendment would help ensure that veterans who are serviced by 
rural VAs have access to the most cutting-edge healthcare industry 
procedures and practices. My amendment also helps address an issue that 
is indicative of a larger systemic issue in rural America where 
healthcare workforce recruitment is a barrier to improved population 
health. Workforce shortages, especially in health care, permeate every 
aspect of rural life, aggregating already long driving distances and 
minimal access to care.
  There is significant evidence that increased recruitment and 
retention of professionals to underserved areas can exist if we recruit 
people from rural areas to come into our healthcare profession. To help 
address concerns of veterans' access to care, Congress established the 
Office of Rural Health within the VA in 2007. This office has done 
outstanding work over the years to recruit, train, and retain rural 
healthcare professionals. Everything we do in Congress in relation to 
the VA workforce must complement that work.
  Approximately 25 percent of our Nation's veterans live in rural 
communities and comprise nearly 11 percent of the adult rural 
population. Rural veterans account for 36 percent of all VA enrollees. 
43 percent of rural veterans earn an annual income of less than 
$26,000, and more than 40 percent do not have access to broadband 
internet. This limits the accessibility of our rural veterans to online 
healthcare services.
  According to the Census, the rates of uninsurance, disability, 
poverty, and unemployment among veterans all increase as the levels of 
rurality increases. Four in ten have at least one service-connected 
disability. The Seventh Congressional District of Alabama is home to 
more than 36,000 veterans and over 5,000 VA employees at eight 
facilities. I visited with the VA staff at several of these facilities, 
and I am always impressed with the work that they do every day on 
behalf of our Nation's veterans. With all of the negativity surrounding 
our VA employees over the past several years, I want to take this 
opportunity to commend those public servants who rise every morning to 
help our veterans lead productive and healthy lives.
  I hope my colleagues, both urban and rural, will work with me to 
ensure that rural veterans thrive in their communities and rural 
Americans are included in this outstanding VA workforce recruitment 
bill. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chair, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time in 
opposition, although I am not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of Representative Sewell's 
amendment, which would authorize the Secretary in selecting employees 
to participate in the executive management fellowship program 
established by section 3 of the bill, to provide a preference for 
employees in rural areas.

                              {time}  0930

  According to VA's Office of Rural Health, there are currently 3 
million veterans living in rural communities across the country who 
rely on the VA healthcare system for their care.
  It is critical that VA medical facilities in rural areas are given 
access to leadership development opportunities like the executive 
management fellowship program so that rural veterans benefit from them.
  I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment, 
and I thank Representative Sewell for submitting it.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentleman 
for supporting this amendment, and I urge all of my colleagues to 
support it as well.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Alabama (Ms. Sewell).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 4 Offered by Ms. Hanabusa

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 4 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Ms. HANABUSA. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Strike section 6.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentlewoman 
from Hawaii (Ms. Hanabusa) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Hawaii.
  Ms. HANABUSA. Mr. Chairman, I rise to speak on my amendment to strike 
Section 6, Reemployment of Former Employees.
  Mr. Chairman, I understand the value of rehiring competent and 
capable former employees who left and want to return to serve our 
veterans at the Department of Veterans Affairs. However, the current 
text would allow the Secretary to rehire a former employee without the 
former employee going through any competitive process. And the current 
text allows the Secretary to hire them at a grade higher than when they 
were previously in the department.
  So, I asked my colleagues, what about the hardworking, competent 
employees who chose not to leave the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
who dedicated their lives to serving veterans? Is it fair to them for 
former employees to reenter civil service without going through the 
competitive selection process and be rewarded with an automatic pay 
grade increase?
  My amendment supports the retention of a Federal hiring process that 
is fair and time-tested.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support my amendment, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to Representative 
Hanabusa's amendment, which would strike section 6 of the bill.
  Section 6 would allow the VA to noncompetitively reappoint a former 
VA employee to a position not more than one grade higher than their 
former position, as long as the employee left voluntarily within the 
prior 2 years, had a satisfactory performance record, and maintained 
necessary licensures and credentials.
  The former employees who would be helped by this section had 
performed admirably, left voluntarily, and gone on to gain relevant 
education or experience that the VA needs. They should be encouraged to 
come back to the VA and put their new skills to work for our veterans, 
not required to go through a lengthy competitive selection process at 
the VA for the second time.
  Striking this provision would deprive the VA of an authority that 
could be used to address access and other challenges by recruiting 
high-performing former employees back to VA employment.
  I urge all of my colleagues to join me in opposing this amendment, 
and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Hawaii (Ms. Hanabusa).
  The amendment was rejected.

[[Page H2161]]

  



                  Amendment No. 5 Offered by Mr. Buck

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 5 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Mr. BUCK. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 11, line 2, strike ``The Secretary'' and insert 
     ``Notwithstanding sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, 
     United States Code, the Secretary''.
       Page 11, line 3, insert ``career or career conditional'' 
     after ``former''.
       Page 11, beginning on line 4, strike ``or any excepted 
     service position under chapter 74 of title 38, United States 
     Code,''.
       Page 11, line 7, insert ``or equivalent'' after ``grade'' 
     both places it appears.
       Page 11, line 16, insert ``career or career conditional'' 
     before ``position''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentleman 
from Colorado (Mr. Buck) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Colorado.
  Mr. BUCK. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of my amendment to 
H.R. 1367.
  First, I thank Chairman Roe and Representative Wenstrup for bringing 
this bill before us today and for consideration of my amendment.
  As Americans, as Members of Congress, our job is to serve and care 
for our veterans once they return home. That is what H.R. 1367 does.
  My amendment strengthens this important bill, guaranteeing that the 
Department of Veterans Affairs can employ the best people to care for 
our veterans.
  My amendment makes clear that former political appointees at the VA 
are not eligible for direct hire authority for competitively selected 
positions without first going through the proper civil service hiring 
process.
  America's veterans deserve the top care from people who are devoted 
to serving them. The VA is run by hardworking civil servants, men and 
women hired in a competitive, merit-based process that assessed their 
skill and their passion for serving our Nation's veterans.
  Political appointees, on the other hand, are meant to serve their 
appointing President's agenda for a temporary period of time. Part of 
their duty to the Nation is to know when it is time to step down from 
their position of power.
  My amendment prevents former VA political appointees from using their 
political connections to jump ahead of other qualified individuals, 
burrowing into a high-paying career position at the VA.
  Along with my friend and colleague Representative Lieu, I have 
already introduced a bill to address the problem of political 
burrowing.
  H.R. 1132 would prevent political appointees from burrowing into the 
civil service across the government for 2 years after leaving their 
political position. Until that bill is enacted, this amendment will 
ensure that the most qualified workers are filling the crucial jobs at 
the VA, providing our veterans the treatment they deserve.
  We must protect the independence of our merit-based civil service, we 
must employ the best people in the VA, and we must guard our veterans 
from the failed policies and practices of administrations past.
  I urge a ``yes'' vote on my amendment, and I reserve the balance of 
my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition, even though I 
am not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Without objection, the gentleman from Minnesota is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Chairman, we must enable the VA to recruit and retain 
the most capable people to serve our Nation's veterans.
  We also know that one size does not fit all when considering an 
applicant's background and experience. If an individual has gained 
valuable experience over many years at an agency, we don't want to 
eliminate them as an option. Federal hiring officials need the most 
complete list of options available to select the most highly qualified 
employees.
  I do not object to requiring former political appointees at the VA go 
through the proper selection process when they apply for nonpolitical, 
competitively selected positions.
  I truly appreciate the spirit and intent of the gentleman from 
Colorado's amendment. I support it, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. BUCK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Ohio 
(Mr. Wenstrup), my friend and colleague.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of Representative 
Buck's amendment, which would prevent former VA political appointees 
from receiving nonpolitical, competitively selected positions pursuant 
to section 6 of the bill without going through the proper competitive 
selection process.
  This amendment would prevent political appointees from 
inappropriately burrowing in across VA, and I am in full support of it.
  I thank Representative Buck for submitting this amendment, and I urge 
all of my colleagues to join me in supporting it.
  Mr. BUCK. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Buck).
  The amendment was agreed to.


               Amendment No. 6 Offered by Ms. Shea-Porter

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 6 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an amendment to 
H.R. 1367.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 12, strike lines 2 through 6 and insert the following:
       (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     establish a single database that lists--
       (1) each vacant position in the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs that the Secretary determines is critical to the 
     mission of the Department, difficult to fill, or both; and
       (2) each vacant position in the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs for a mental health professional.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentlewoman 
from New Hampshire (Ms. Shea-Porter) and a Member opposed each will 
control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from New Hampshire.
  Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Chairman, under this legislation, the VA would 
create a database to help match qualified job applicants to critical 
open positions in order to more quickly fill those vacancies.
  My amendment is simple. It requires the VA to include mental health 
positions in that database, allowing it to better serve veterans with 
critical needs by ensuring that the VA uses all available tools to 
recruit and hire qualified mental health professionals in a timely and 
effective manner.
  The VA faces a critical shortage of mental health professionals, 
including psychiatrists, psychologists, mental health counselors, and 
peer support specialists. These providers care for our veterans with 
behavioral health needs that include post-traumatic stress disorder, 
military sexual trauma, and substance use disorder. Too many of our 
veterans must wait to receive the mental health care we have promised 
to them, and some might never receive needed care at all.
  In my home State of New Hampshire, we are fighting a fentanyl, 
heroin, and prescription opioid crisis that is disproportionately 
affecting the veteran community. Rates of opioid-use disorder among 
veterans rose 55 percent between 2010 and 2015, and overdose rates for 
prescription opioids are twice as high as the national average among 
veterans getting care at the VA. Increasing mental health provider 
capacity will allow more of these veterans to enter treatment and, 
ultimately, recover.
  Our veterans deserve to be treated by professionals who fully 
understand the veteran experience and veteran-specific mental health 
conditions. That is why it is so important for veterans to have the 
option to receive specialized mental health care from VA mental health 
professionals who have the training that will allow them to build 
trust.
  In fact, only 13 percent of non-VA mental health providers meet the 
criteria to deliver veteran-centric mental

[[Page H2162]]

health care, according to RAND. That is why it is so important to hire 
and retain mental health professionals within the VA.
  Right now, there are several open mental health positions at our 
local VA Medical Center. They seek to hire clinical staff and a mental 
health service line manager, but are finding it hard to locate 
qualified applicants. My amendment will make it easier for the VA to 
find such applicants and match them with the open positions that we 
need filled.
  There is an urgent need to address this problem. Every day, 20 
veterans commit suicide. MST, opioid, PTSD--these are all crises we 
need to address. The time to act is now. Please vote ``yes'' on this 
amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time 
in opposition, although I am not opposed.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of Representative Shea-
Porter's amendment, which would require the VA to ensure that the 
recruiting database established by section 7 of the bill includes a 
list of open mental health positions.
  Though I am glad to report that, as of January, only 3,469 of VA's 
45,360 vacant positions were specific to mental health, it is critical 
that the VA closely track to mental health vacancies on an ongoing 
basis so that they can be prioritized and filled to prevent any 
disruptions in care to our most vulnerable veterans.
  I am fully supportive of this amendment and grateful to 
Representative Shea-Porter for submitting it.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from New Hampshire (Ms. Shea-Porter).
  The amendment was agreed to.


         Amendment No. 7 Offered by Ms. Brownley of California

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 7 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the 
desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 15, line 9, insert ``, including each medical center, 
     domiciliary facility, outpatient clinic, community-based 
     outpatient clinic, and vet center'' after ``Affairs''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. Brownley) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from California.
  Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer an 
amendment to H.R. 1367.
  I thank my friend and colleague, the chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Health, for introducing this bill to make important reforms to the VA's 
hiring and retention systems.
  My amendment makes a small, but important, change to clarify a 
provision in the bill.
  As long as I have served on the Veterans' Affairs Committee, we have 
seen and heard that retaining high-quality candidates has been a real 
challenge. I can speak from experience on this.
  In the greater Los Angeles region, which serves my constituents, 
there has been significant turnover of senior leadership at all of our 
local facilities, including our community clinic in Oxnard. These 
changes and uncertainty have, in my view, been harmful to the quality 
of care that our veterans receive.
  That is why I am so pleased the bill directs the Comptroller General 
to review succession planning at VA medical facilities.
  Effective succession planning, understanding what positions are 
mission critical, ensuring better training, and closing the skills gap 
will help the VA become a healthier organization, and help ensure that 
the VA accomplishes its mission--serving our Nation's veterans.
  My amendment clarifies that a medical facility includes all VHA 
facilities, including medical centers, outpatient clinics, community-
based outpatient clinics, and vet centers.
  We must ensure each local facility has a strong workforce and a 
succession plan for the future. Because without strong leadership, we 
cannot provide the high-quality care that veterans have earned and 
deserve.
  I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense amendment, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time 
in opposition, although I am not opposed.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of Representative 
Brownley's amendment, which would stipulate that the Government 
Accountability Office report on VA succession planning should include 
an assessment of succession planning at VA medical centers, domiciliary 
facilities, outpatient clinics, community-based outpatient clinics, and 
vet centers.
  I appreciate this clarifying amendment and my friend and colleague 
Representative Brownley, the ranking member of the Subcommittee on 
Health, for submitting it.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr. Chairman, I thank the Chair for 
accepting my amendment, and I look forward to our continued bipartisan 
work together to provide high-quality care for our veterans.
  I yield back the balance of my time.

                              {time}  0945

  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. Brownley).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                  Amendment No. 8 Offered by Mr. Welch

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 8 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Mr. WELCH. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 16, after line 6, insert the following:
       (6) An analysis of succession planning and hiring as it 
     relates to rural areas.
       Page 16, line 7, strike ``(6)'' and insert ``(7)''.
       Page 17, line 21, strike ``and''.
       Page 17, line 24, strike the period and insert ``; and''.
       Page 17, after line 24, insert the following:
       (J) the ability to recruit and hire in rural areas.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentleman 
from Vermont (Mr. Welch) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Vermont.
  Mr. WELCH. Mr. Chair, my amendment has one goal: to ensure that rural 
America is very much a part of the conversation on improving the 
Veterans Administration.
  This very good, bipartisan bill that is before us will help the VA 
improve its ability to recruit, hire, train, promote, and retain 
physicians and other employees at the VA, but it could be slightly 
changed to help veterans in rural America. And, by the way, a 
significant number of veterans are in rural America, including Vermont.
  My amendment would add two provisions. First, the underlying bill 
requires the GAO to conduct a study on succession planning at the VA. 
That is intended to try to better understand the problem the agency has 
to have a pipeline of qualified candidates to assume critical roles 
that are open.
  My amendment would require the GAO to study and analyze succession 
planning and hiring in rural areas. The vast majority of our country is 
rural, so we have got to put an emphasis on that. The challenges in 
rural America are different than in the urban areas.
  Second, the underlying bill also requires the VA to collect 
information on

[[Page H2163]]

hiring effectiveness: the time it takes to fill a vacant position, the 
attrition rate, the reason staff leaves, investment in training and 
development, and other barriers to recruitment and training. My 
amendment would require that study to focus on the rural challenges 
that are different, significantly, than in the urban areas.
  The lack of qualified candidates that the VA can recruit and, 
ultimately, fill open positions with is a real problem. But we have to 
recognize that that is even more difficult in rural America.
  In Vermont, we have 50,000 veterans living in the State and only nine 
VA facilities to help them. These are some of the satellite facilities 
that are quite small. Our largest facility is White River Junction, the 
VA Medical Center there that we are very proud of. It provided medical 
care for over 26,000 of those veterans in 2016. The director there has 
indicated to me that it is a real struggle to find qualified candidates 
to fill mission-critical positions.
  We had, at that facility, a wonderful neuropsychologist--desperately 
needed--but that person was married, had children, and due to the 
inability of her husband to find a job within his field of work, they 
have left the VA there to go to an urban area. This is one variation of 
the problem we face--to recruit, to hire, and to retain critical 
personnel--that needs to be addressed in rural areas.
  My amendment will help us better understand the unique challenges 
rural America faces dealing with the critical staff shortages at our 
veterans facilities and sets the stage for us to fix the problem.
  Mr. Chair, I ask Members to support my amendment, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time 
in opposition, although I am not opposed.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of Representative Welch's 
amendment, which would ensure that the GAO report on VA succession 
planning includes an analysis of succession planning in rural areas.
  Rural facilities undoubtedly face unique challenges in recruiting and 
retaining employees and in planning effectively to ensure leadership 
continuity as employees retire or depart. I am glad that, with the 
adoption of this amendment, GAO will be reviewing these issues 
specifically and will be able to offer recommendations as to how VA can 
improve succession planning in rural areas where approximately 40 
percent of our veterans reside.
  I appreciate Representative Welch for submitting this amendment, and 
I ask all of my colleagues to join me in supporting it.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Vermont (Mr. Welch).
  The amendment was agreed to.


               Amendment No. 9 Offered by Mr. GOTTHEIMER

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 9 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 21, line 10, strike ``or''.
       Page 21, line 15, strike the period and insert a semicolon.
       Page 21, insert after line 15 the following:
       (4) have received educational assistance under chapter 33 
     of title 38, United States Code; or
       (5) graduated from a qualifying educational institution, as 
     defined by the Department, and have not reached 30 years of 
     age.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. Gottheimer) and a Member opposed each will control 
5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.
  Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the chairman and 
ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee and Representative 
Wenstrup for their work on this important bill.
  This legislation empowers the Secretary of Veterans Affairs with the 
authority to hire the best and brightest employees.
  We can all agree that you can't have a top-notch VA without employing 
young veterans who want to continue serving their country after they 
return from the front lines. Each and every day, our brave men and 
women in uniform put their lives on the line for us, and we owe it to 
them to ensure that, when they return home, they have the best care at 
the VA and that they also have the best career opportunities available 
to them.
  This legislation is about veterans serving veterans. Young veterans 
in the Fifth District of New Jersey, where I live, tell me that they 
face significant challenges when they return home, even though many of 
them have a desire to help serve other veterans.
  I was lucky enough to hire one such veteran on my team, Mike 
DeVilliers, who served in the U.S. Army. Mike is committed to helping 
other veterans and has, at a local community college, where he ran a 
program for student veterans. He now serves my constituents, including 
our veterans and across the four counties in the Fifth District.
  We should be encouraging talented and qualified young veterans like 
Mike to put their skills to use and give back to their fellow 
servicemen and -women. The VA is one place those skills are sorely 
needed to best serve the 473,000 veterans who live in New Jersey and 
the many other veterans across our country.
  Mr. Chairman, approximately 60 percent of VA employees are over the 
age of 45, and the Department has struggled to develop an adequate 
pipeline for younger employees and emerging leaders to fill crucial and 
critical roles. We have seen the negative effects of not having the 
right team in place to support our veterans. While programs like 
Pathways at the VA are a step in the right direction, we can do more to 
improve the process and give a leg up to all veterans who wish to bring 
their skills to the VA.
  More than half of the post-9/11 veterans are 34 years of age or 
younger, and approximately 30 percent have bachelor's or advanced 
degrees; yet the Department of Labor reported that post-9/11 vets face 
a higher unemployment rate than other veterans. That is simply 
unacceptable.
  The VA should draw from their excellent source of talent to 
strengthen the care all of our veterans receive by considering more 
young veterans for excepted service appointments. That is why my 
amendment would make sure that the VA Secretary includes recipients of 
the post-9/11 GI Bill and younger veterans who have recently graduated 
from college as a distinct category qualifying for excepted service 
appointments to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  Mr. Chairman, the mission statement of the VA is inscribed outside 
the Department's headquarters. It reads: ``To care for him who shall 
have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan.'' This is 
President Lincoln's promise to serving and honoring the men and women 
who are America's heroes, and it should and must be our same commitment 
today. I know of no one who stands more willing and able to serve 
fellow veterans and their brothers and sisters in arms than the 
veterans themselves.
  There is nothing partisan about serving our veterans. This is a 
commonsense solution without any new costs, and it is a perfect example 
of working across party lines to help get the backs of those who have 
served our country.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in standing up for our veterans by 
supporting this win-win solution.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time 
in opposition, although I am not opposed.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of Representative 
Gottheimer's amendments which would ensure that veterans who are recent 
graduates and/or recipients of the

[[Page H2164]]

post-9/11 GI Bill are also eligible for excepted service appointments 
under section 12 of the bill.
  As a veteran and as the former chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Economic Opportunity, there are few things I support as strongly as 
assisting veterans in seeking and receiving employment opportunities, 
particularly in the Federal Government.
  The skill sets and commitment to service that veterans display while 
in uniform often make them particularly suited to government work once 
they transition to civilian life. The adoption of this amendment would 
provide yet another tool to support veterans looking to continue their 
service to our Nation, and I am grateful to Representative Gottheimer 
for submitting it.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Gottheimer).
  The amendment was agreed to.


            Amendment No. 10 Offered by Ms. Herrera Beutler

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 10 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 22, line 18, strike ``, to the extent possible,''.
       Page 22, beginning on line 19, strike ``and personally 
     identifiable information is removed'' and insert ``, 
     including through the use of a location that allows for 
     privacy, is not directly visible by another employee, and 
     does not require the departing employee to input any 
     personally identifiable data''.
       Page 22, line 23, insert ``are aggregated at the Veterans 
     Integrated Service Network level and'' after ``subsection 
     (a)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentlewoman 
from Washington (Ms. Herrera Beutler) and a Member opposed each will 
control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Washington.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Chairman, I want to commend Dr. Wenstrup and 
the chairman and ranking member for their work on this bill.
  Today I am offering this amendment that will help get to the root of 
one of the big problems within the VA that leads to high turnover by 
providers and compromises care for our veteran heroes. Specifically, my 
amendment strengthens anonymity protections for VA employees who fill 
out exit surveys and requires that this exit survey data be more 
localized so that the agency can better solve region-specific problems.
  High staff turnover is an ongoing problem in our VA and it negatively 
affects our veterans. High turnover leads to staff shortages and 
results in veterans having to wait longer to see their doctor or their 
specialist, and it also means that there are issues with continuity of 
care for veterans.
  Over the last few years, I have asked the VA why healthcare providers 
are leaving. The VA took some educated guesses as to why but could not 
provide hard data or facts.
  Two years ago I inserted a directive into the MILCON VA approps bill 
requiring the VA to begin offering exit surveys to collect data on why 
healthcare providers are leaving. I also required that the VA develop a 
detailed plan to address the primary reasons these providers were 
leaving. While that report has provided some insights, we found that it 
is failing to take a few important steps that would make sure we are 
receiving honest feedback from these exiting providers.
  For instance, the Portland VA employees who fill out the survey have 
to fill it out at a kiosk in the HR office where the HR staff can see 
them doing it. While the survey, itself, is anonymous, departing 
employees have to log into the kiosk with their employee identification 
number. The fear of being identified is a big deterrent for providers 
filling out this voluntary but critical survey. Only if VA providers 
are telling the honest truth about what they saw, heard, and 
experienced in their workplace can the VA then fix the problems that 
plague its facilities.
  Therefore, we have to make this exit survey as easy and confidential 
to fill out as possible, and that is what my amendment requires. It 
requires these surveys to be conducted at a location that allows for 
privacy, not directly visible by another VA employee, and it does not 
require the departing employee to put in any personal, identifiable 
information. It also requires the exit survey data to be compiled at 
the regional level to identify and acknowledge local needs.
  What needs to be changed in southwest Washington may not be the same 
as what is happening in Texas or Virginia or Florida, and this 
amendment will help the VA identify the right region-specific 
solutions.
  With that, I urge Members to support my amendment so we can better 
serve and support our veterans by retaining their healthcare providers.
  Mr. Chair, I yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Walz).
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Chairman, I do not oppose this amendment. It is smart.
  I have seen how important employee exit surveys can be in 
facilitating and understanding how an organization can be improved, 
made more efficient, or take constructive criticism. It makes absolute 
sense that employees filling them out know that they can provide honest 
responses because their anonymity will be protected by law, not by a 
promise or regulation.
  Ensuring that exit data is collected on the VISN level will give VA 
leadership the most accurate look at where in the country higher 
retention policies are working and where they are not. That is just 
good, best practice.
  Mr. Chair, I support the gentlewoman's smart amendment.
  Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Washington (Ms. Herrera Beutler).
  The amendment was agreed to.

                              {time}  1000


                Amendment No. 11 Offered by Ms. Hanabusa

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Hultgren). It is now in order to consider 
amendment No. 11 printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Ms. HANABUSA. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 23, line 16, strike ``the number of employees who'' 
     and insert the following: ``the total number of employees who 
     voluntarily separated from the Department and the number and 
     percentage of whom''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentlewoman 
from Hawaii (Ms. Hanabusa) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Hawaii.
  Ms. HANABUSA. Mr. Chairman, I rise to speak on my amendment to ensure 
certain types of information are added to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs survey data that this bill requires the Department to create 
and report to the House and Senate Committees on Veterans' Affairs.
  This bill instructs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop and 
carry out a standardized exit survey to be voluntarily completed by 
career and noncareer employees and executives of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs who voluntarily separate from the Department.
  The bill currently requires the Department to report to Congress the 
following types of information on an annual basis: first, an analysis 
of the most common reasons employees choose to leave; second, steps the 
Secretary is taking to improve retention; third, the demographic 
characteristics of employees choosing to leave; fourth, the legislative 
barriers to improving employee retention; and, fifth, the number of 
employees who took the survey.
  Mr. Chairman, there is important information missing that must be 
gathered by the Department: one, the total number of employees who 
voluntarily exited the Department during the reporting period; and, 
two, the percentage of those employees who actually responded to the 
survey.
  Without this critical information, Congress will be unable to assess 
the value of the reported data relative to the total number of 
employees who departed the Department.
  Mr. Chairman, I am asking that we get a full picture, and my 
amendment will help us do that.

[[Page H2165]]

  I urge my colleagues to support my amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time 
in opposition, although I am not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of Representative 
Hanabusa's amendment, which would tweak the report on exit surveys the 
VA is required to submit in section 13 of the bill to stipulate the VA 
provide the total number of employees who voluntarily separated from VA 
service and the percentage of those who took an exit survey.
  This information will be very helpful for Congress to receive in 
order to track how many employees are choosing to voluntarily leave the 
VA and are taking advantage of the opportunity to complete an exit 
survey prior to their departure.
  I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment, and 
I am grateful to Representative Hanabusa for submitting it.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Hawaii (Ms. Hanabusa).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Hawaii 
will be postponed.


                  Amendment No. 12 Offered by Ms. Meng

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 12 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Ms. MENG. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of the bill insert the following:

     SEC. 14. ENCOURAGING TRANSITION OF MILITARY MEDICAL 
                   PROFESSIONALS INTO EMPLOYMENT WITH VETERANS 
                   HEALTH ADMINISTRATION.

       The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a program 
     to encourage an individual who serves in the Armed Forces 
     with a military occupational specialty relating to the 
     provision of health care to seek employment with the Veterans 
     Health Administration when the individual has been discharged 
     or released from service in the Armed Forces or is 
     contemplating separating from such service.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. Meng) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from New York.
  Ms. MENG. Mr. Chairman, this amendment would require the VA Secretary 
to establish a program encouraging members of our Armed Forces serving 
as health professionals to pursue jobs with the Veterans Health 
Administration upon discharge or separation from the military.
  As we all know, the VHA has existing shortages of health 
professionals. We also know that our servicemen and -women sometimes 
have difficulty transitioning back to civilian life after serving.
  What would be better than having a servicemember with healthcare 
training and experience transition into employment with the VHA serving 
their brothers and sisters?
  Mr. Chair, I believe that everyone wins with this amendment. This 
program would be completely optional to participate in, would help 
reduce staffing shortages at the VHA, and would provide job 
opportunities to recently discharged servicemembers.
  I urge support for this commonsense amendment, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time 
in opposition, although I am not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of Representative 
Meng's amendment, which would encourage military medical professionals 
who are transitioning out of the Armed Forces to seek employment within 
the Veterans Health Administration.
  Wherever possible, the VA should be filling vacant positions at VA 
medical facilities with eligible, qualified veterans. And I am fully 
supportive of any amendment like this one that recognizes the highly 
specialized skills that many veterans gained while in uniform, skills 
that, in this case, could be used in service to fellow veterans by 
addressing access to care challenges across the country.
  I am grateful to Representative Meng for this important amendment, 
and I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting it.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Meng).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                  Amendment No. 13 Offered by Mr. Bost

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 13 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Mr. BOST. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Add at the end the following new section:

     SEC. 14. PLAN TO HIRE DIRECTORS OF MEDICAL CENTERS OF 
                   DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

       (a) Plan.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall develop and implement a plan to hire highly qualified 
     directors for each medical center of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs that lacks a permanent director as of the 
     date of the plan. The Secretary shall prioritize the hiring 
     of such directors for the medical centers that have not had a 
     permanent director for the longest periods.
       (b) Matters Included.--The plan developed under subsection 
     (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A deadline to hire the directors of the medical centers 
     of the Department as described in such subsection.
       (2) Identification of the possible impediments to such 
     hiring.
       (3) Identification of opportunities to promote and train 
     candidates from within the Department to senior executive 
     positions in the Department, including as directors of 
     medical centers.
       (c) Submission.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate the plan developed under 
     subsection (a).
       (d) Semiannual Reports.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, and each 180-day period 
     thereafter until January 1, 2018, the Secretary shall submit 
     to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a list of each medical center 
     of the Department that lacks a permanent director as of the 
     date of the report.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. Bost) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois.
  Mr. BOST. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of my amendment to H.R. 
1367.
  My simple and straightforward amendment would require the Department 
of Veterans Affairs to develop and implement a plan to hire permanent 
directors for each medical center of the VA. It also specifies that the 
Secretary should prioritize the hiring of directors for locations that 
have spent the longest amount of time without one.
  Mr. Chairman, last Congress it was brought to my attention that the 
VA medical center that many of my constituents utilize had not had a 
permanent director in almost 3 years. This is simply unacceptable when 
we have veterans needing quality care and are demanding reform to the 
current healthcare system.
  After reaching out to the Department, I came to realize that this is 
a common problem around the country, which led to my introduction of 
the amendment.
  Under the current VA system, the Secretary is allowed to appoint an 
interim director at facilities, but those individuals can only serve a 
maximum of 240 days. This is simply far too short

[[Page H2166]]

a period of time to properly get to know the staff at the centers and 
the needs of the location, let alone implement new reforms.
  This commonsense bipartisan amendment is identical to a bill I 
introduced earlier in this Congress with Members of both parties 
supporting the legislation. It is also identical to legislation that 
this body passed last Congress with strong bipartisan support.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense 
amendment, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition, although I am 
not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Without objection, the gentleman from Minnesota is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Chair, every Member of Congress has heard directly from 
their constituents who receive health care from the VA that it is 
understaffed. This is true at all levels, but it is vital to both the 
workforce and the veterans served that each medical center have 
permanent leadership.
  I think all of us know--and there is an old saying--if you have been 
to one VA facility, you have been to one VA facility. Again, it may 
seem like the easiest thing to say that leadership matters at these 
facilities. Nothing matters more.
  When a VA facility is moving in the right direction, it can always be 
traced to strong, directed leadership. In almost every case each one of 
us has worked on, whether it is weak leadership or lack of leadership, 
those situations go awry.
  I have a situation in Minnesota where we have been waiting for 
leadership for a year. We were notified, I believe, a week or so ago 
that we are finally getting that.
  I enthusiastically endorse Mr. Bost's amendment, which would require 
the Department to get these things done, develop and implement a plan 
within 120 days of enactment to hire a permanent director for each 
medical center which does not have one.
  As the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Bost) says in his amendment, a 
new director may well be identified from senior executives already 
within the Department, or he or she may be someone from outside the 
agency who meets the qualifications and wants to work at the VA.
  What is necessary is that filling these open directorships be made a 
priority. Requiring the VA to show us the plan to do so and provide 
regular updates as that plan is implemented is a way to set this 
priority.
  I commend the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Bost) for getting at the 
heart of this. This will be about accountability. It will put the right 
people in place to make the right decisions and get the care for our 
veterans.
  Mr. Chairman, I strongly support it, and I yield back the balance of 
my time.
  Mr. BOST. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. 
Wenstrup).
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of Representative 
Bost's amendment, which would require the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to develop and implement a plan to hire directors at each VA 
medical center that lacks a permanent director.
  Twenty-five percent of current VA medical center directors are 
eligible to retire, and the VA testified last year that it can take 
more than 6 months and multiple reannouncements to recruit new VA 
medical center directors.
  The VA must begin planning now to ensure that leadership at VA 
medical centers across the country remain stable and that medical 
center director vacancies are closely monitored and prioritized.
  The text of this amendment passed the House last year with unanimous 
support, and I am grateful to Representative Bost for submitting this 
amendment again this year to H.R. 1367.
  I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting it.
  Mr. BOST. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Bost).
  The amendment was agreed to.


                Amendment No. 14 Offered by Mr. O'Rourke

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 14 
printed in part B of House Report 115-39.
  Mr. O'ROURKE. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Add at the end the following new section:

     SEC. 14. RECRUITMENT OF PHYSICIANS IN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
                   AFFAIRS.

       (a) In General.--Section 7402(b)(1) of title 38, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``or to be offered a contingent 
     appointment to such position,'' after ``position,''; and
       (2) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
     following new subparagraph (B):
       ``(B)(i) have completed a residency program satisfactory to 
     the Secretary; or
       ``(ii) with respect to an offer for a contingent 
     appointment upon the completion of a post-graduate training 
     program, complete such a residency program by not later than 
     two years after the date of such offer; and''.
       (b) Oversight of Graduate Medical Education Programs.--The 
     Secretary shall--
       (1) ensure that a recruiter or other similar official of 
     each Veterans Integrated Service Network visits, not less 
     than annually, each allopathic and osteopathic teaching 
     institution with a graduate medical education program within 
     the Network to recruit individuals to be appointed to 
     positions in the Veterans Health Administration; and
       (2) submit to Congress an annual report on the 
     implementation of paragraph (1), including the success of 
     such recruiting efforts.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 198, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. O'Rourke) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. O'ROURKE. Mr. Chairman, I would like to begin by recognizing the 
incredibly important work of my colleague from Ohio (Mr. Wenstrup) in 
ensuring that we bring more physicians and care providers into the VA 
so that more veterans can get access to quality, timely care, producing 
better outcomes for them.
  Of course, our veterans have served this country so honorably and 
have put their lives on the line, and now it is our turn to fulfill our 
obligation. Dr. Wenstrup's underlying legislation is going to ensure 
that we get a step closer to doing that. He will agree with me, I hope, 
that one of our challenges is recruiting the right talent into the VA 
out of residency programs across the country.
  Right now, the VA is operating with one hand tied behind its back 
because it limits itself to the last year of a medical residency before 
it begins talking to that resident to try to recruit them to serve at 
the VA.
  Meanwhile, most residents begin making career decisions a year or two 
earlier than that. And private sector clinics, hospitals, other public 
institutions are talking to those residents, trying to recruit them, 
and successfully bringing them to places other than the VA.
  This amendment will allow the VA to begin recruiting and offering 
conditional job offers with 2 years left in a residency. It will help 
us to address the fact that today there are 43,000 authorized funded 
positions that are open in the VA where we don't have the doctors, the 
psychiatrists, the primary care providers, the medical professionals we 
need to provide the care that veterans need.
  We need to begin recruiting earlier, more effectively, and more 
successfully. This amendment to the underlying legislation will allow 
us to do that.
  I hope that I will have the support of my friend from Ohio (Mr. 
Wenstrup), of the ranking member of the full committee, and of my 
colleagues here in the Chamber.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the time 
in opposition, although I am not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of Representative 
O'Rourke's amendment, which would allow the VA to offer physicians 
conditional job offers 2 years prior to the completion of their 
residency, and also require VA recruiters or other officials to visit 
each teaching institution with a residency program at least once a

[[Page H2167]]

year. It is a great idea and one that I greatly appreciate.
  The VA's existing workforce is increasingly retirement-eligible, and, 
historically, the VA has performed poorly in comparison to other 
Federal agencies when it comes to hiring younger employees.
  By creating a pipeline of young, up-and-coming physicians willing to 
practice in VA medical facilities and committed to VA service, this 
amendment would help ensure that the VA healthcare system is fully 
staffed to care for our veterans for years to come.
  The text of this amendment passed the House last year as an amendment 
to H.R. 5620, and I am grateful to Representative O'Rourke for 
submitting it as an amendment to H.R. 1367 today.
  I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. O'Rourke).
  The amendment was agreed to.
  Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee do now rise.
  The motion was agreed to.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Collins of Georgia) having assumed the chair, Mr. Hultgren, Acting 
Chair of the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, 
reported that that Committee, having had under consideration the bill 
(H.R. 1367) to improve the authority of the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to hire and retain physicians and other employees of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes, had come to no 
resolution thereon.

                          ____________________



