

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S592-S593]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE

  At 12:01 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 58. An act to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to submit a study on the circumstances which may 
     impact the effectiveness and availability of first responders 
     before, during, or after a terrorist threat or event, and for 
     other purposes.
       H.R. 276. An act to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     ensure reliable air service in American Samoa.
       H.R. 347. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to provide for requirements relating to documentation for 
     major acquisition programs, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 366. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to direct the Under Secretary for Management of the 
     Department of Homeland Security to make certain improvements 
     in managing the Department's vehicle fleet, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 437. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to codify authority under existing grant guidance authorizing 
     use of Urban Area Security Initiative and State Homeland 
     Security Grant Program funding for enhancing medical 
     preparedness, medical surge capacity, and mass prophylaxis 
     capabilities.
       H.R. 505. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to strengthen accountability for deployment of border 
     security technology at the Department of Homeland Security, 
     and for other purposes.
       H.R. 526. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish in the Department of Homeland Security a board 
     to coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence, 
     activities, and policy related to counterterrorism, and for 
     other purposes.

[[Page S593]]

  

       H.R. 549. An act to amend the Implementing Recommendations 
     of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 to clarify certain 
     allowable uses of funds for public transportation security 
     assistance grants and establish periods of performance for 
     such grants, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 584. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to enhance preparedness and response capabilities for cyber 
     attacks, bolster the dissemination of homeland security 
     information related to cyber threats, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 612. An act to establish a grant program at the 
     Department of Homeland Security to promote cooperative 
     research and development between the United States and Israel 
     on cybersecurity.
       H.R. 642. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to enhance the partnership between the Department of Homeland 
     Security and the National Network of Fusion Centers, and for 
     other purposes.
       H.R. 655. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish the Securing the Cities program to enhance the 
     ability of the United States to detect and prevent terrorist 
     attacks and other high consequence events utilizing nuclear 
     or other radiological materials that pose a high risk to 
     homeland security in high-risk urban areas, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 665. An act to modernize and enhance airport perimeter 
     and access control security by requiring updated risk 
     assessments and the development of security strategies, and 
     for other purposes.
       H.R. 666. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish the Insider Threat Program, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 677. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear 
     intelligence and information sharing functions of the Office 
     of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland 
     Security and to require dissemination of information analyzed 
     by the Department to entities with responsibilities relating 
     to homeland security, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 678. An act to require an assessment of fusion center 
     personnel needs, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 687. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish a process to review applications for certain 
     grants to purchase equipment or systems that do not meet or 
     exceed any applicable national voluntary consensus standards, 
     and for other purposes.
       H.R. 690. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to enhance certain duties of the Domestic Nuclear Detection 
     Office, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 697. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to improve the management and administration of the security 
     clearance processes throughout the Department of Homeland 
     Security, and for other purposes.
                                  ____

  At 5:08 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following joint resolutions, in which it requests the 
concurrence of the Senate:

       H.J. Res. 38. Joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of the Interior known as the 
     Stream Projection Rule.
       H.J. Res. 41. Joint resolution providing for congressional 
     disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, 
     of a rule submitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
     relating to ``Disclosure of Payments by Resource Extraction 
     Issuers''.

                          ____________________



