

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H308]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           HOUSE MEMBERS ATTEND 101ST PENNSYLVANIA FARM SHOW

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to celebrate an 
industry that allows Americans to have access toaffordable, high-
quality, and safe food--the agriculture industry: our farmers, our 
ranchers, farm families. Without foodsecurity, we do not have national 
security; so I am here today to recognize all of those who work so hard 
in that industry.
  Over the weekend, some members of the House Agriculture Committee 
were able to join me in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, ourState capital, to 
attend the 101st annual Pennsylvania Farm Show. This event has been 
widely attended for generations, and it isthe largest indoor 
agriculture expo in the country. It showcases 300 commercial exhibits, 
6,000 heads of animal, 10,000competitive exhibits, and more than a half 
a million visitors.
  On Saturday, Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway and I hosted 
a public listening session. We wanted Members ofCongress to hear 
directly from farmers and ranchers, from FFA members, from kids in 4-
H--the future of agriculture--on howagriculture policy impacts them.
  I thank the following Members who were able to join us at the farm 
show: Congressman Mark Amodei, Congressman LouBarletta, Congressman Tom 
Marino, Congressman Dan Newhouse, and Congressman Ted Yoho.
  We covered a range of topics, Mr. Speaker, during our public forum, 
from raising awareness about agriculture education, tohearing very real 
concerns from our dairy farmers, to receiving an update from our forest 
industry about the best ways tostrengthen forest management. As 
chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry, 
this was of particularinterest to me.
  The Pennsylvania Farm Show, which continues throughout this week, 
brings together so many different farmers and growers andranchers, all 
with unique issues. This, truly, is an event like no other. The Farm 
Show Complex and Expo Center houses 24 acresunder one roof, spread 
throughout 11 buildings, including three arenas. There is no admission 
fee. It is a great event for theentire family, and there are numerous 
educational shows that are, obviously, all free of charge.
  This year's theme is ``Our Commonwealth's Blue Ribbon Experience.'' 
It reminds us that there really is something foreveryone, farmers and 
nonfarmers alike. The Pennsylvania Farm Show provides an atmosphere for 
everyone to walk through, observe,and educate themselves about 
different areas of agriculture and to be able to reconnect with the 
farm--the Commonwealth's largestindustry, which brings in nearly $6.9 
billion annually in agricultural cash receipts. Almost a half million 
jobs are tied to theindustry, which positively impacts all 
Pennsylvanians.
  Undoubtedly, one of the most popular attractions at the Pennsylvania 
Farm Show is the food court, which is located in thecomplex. The food 
court offers visitors a variety of Pennsylvania preferred products, and 
it generates income to support thenonprofit Pennsylvania Agricultural 
Commodity Organizations. There is where you will find the famous Farm 
Show baked potatoes.
  The Pennsylvania Cooperative Potato Growers, Inc., is the oldest in 
the United States, chartered in 1922. The money raisedduring the week 
helps to support the marketing and the promotion of Pennsylvania 
potatoes. Money is also used to pay the duesfor Pennsylvania growers to 
belong to national potato organizations, fund research projects, and 
promotional opportunitiesfor Pennsylvania's growers. Our delegation was 
able to stop by and sample some of the well-knownpotato doughnuts.

  The Pennsylvania Dairymen's Association is also on hand at the expo. 
This service organization provides scholarships, youthprograms, and 
agricultural education programs across the Commonwealth. It also 
maintains the milk house facilities that arelocated in the farm show 
complex. The Dairymen rely on the revenues that are generated during 
the farm show to fund theiractivities, including a statewide fresh milk 
program, called Fill a Glass with Hope. All of their activities are 
bolstered withthe sales of milkshakes, milk and chocolate milk, ice 
cream sundaes, grilled cheese sandwiches, ice cream cones, and 
myfavorite--fried cheese cubes.
  Over a century ago, the first Pennsylvania Farm Show was a 3-day 
exhibit. Today, the event is a weeklong celebration of howthe 
agriculture industry touches our lives every day. If you pick up a 
fork, a spoon, or a knife, you are touched byagriculture. Proudly, this 
event draws visitors from across the country to highlight everything 
our State has to offer when itcomes to agriculture.
  As the 115th Congress begins to address the next farm bill, listening 
sessions like the one that we hosted Saturday willcontinue to be 
critically important. Policy that is based on discussion within the 
vacuum--the beltway--of Washington usuallyfails and falters. When we 
open it up to the people who are impacted, we get the best policy. If 
you are looking for the bestagriculture expo in the country, head to 
Harrisburg this week.

                          ____________________



