

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1494]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       SUBCOMMITTEE ON REGULATORY AFFAIRS AND FEDERAL MANAGEMENT

                                 ______
                                 

                           RULES OF PROCEDURE

  Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, Senate Standing Rule XXVI requires each 
committee to adopt rules to govern the procedure of the committee and 
to publish those rules in the Congressional Record not later than March 
1 of the first year of each Congress. On February 27, 2017, a majority 
of the members of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs' Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management 
adopted subcommittee rules of procedure.
  Consistent with Standing Rule XXVI, today I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record a copy of the rules of procedure of the 
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record as follows:

     Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                          Governmental Affairs


       Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management

       (1) SUBCOMITTEE RULES. The Subcommittee shall be governed, 
     where applicable, by the rules of the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs and the Standing Rules of 
     the Senate.
       (2) QUORUMS. For public or executive sessions, one Member 
     of the Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for the 
     administering of oaths and the taking of testimony in any 
     given case or subject matter. One-third of the Members of the 
     Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of 
     business other than the administering of oaths and the taking 
     of testimony, provided that one Member of the minority is 
     present. Proxies shall not be considered for the 
     establishment of a quorum.
       (3) TAKING TESTIMONY. All witnesses at public or executive 
     hearings who testify to matters of fact shall be sworn.
       (4) SUBCOMMITTEE SUBPEONAS. Subpoenas for witnesses, as 
     well as documents and records, may be authorized and issued 
     by the Chairman, or any other Member of the Subcommittee 
     designated by him or her, with the approval of the Ranking 
     Minority Member of the Subcommittee, provided that the 
     Chairman may subpoena attendance or production without the 
     approval of the Ranking Minority Member where the Chairman or 
     a staff officer designated by him/her has not received 
     notification from the Ranking Minority Member or a staff 
     officer designated by him/her of disapproval of the subpoena 
     within 24 hours excluding Saturdays and Sundays, of being 
     notified of the subpoena. If the subpoena is disapproved by 
     the Ranking Minority Member as provided herein, the subpoena 
     may be authorized by a vote of the Members of the 
     Subcommittee.
       A written notice of intent to issue a subpoena shall be 
     provided to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the 
     full Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, 
     or staff officers designated by them, by the Subcommittee 
     Chairman, or a staff officer designated by him or her, 
     immediately upon such authorization, and no subpoena shall be 
     issued for at least 48 hours, excluding Saturdays and 
     Sundays, from delivery to appropriate offices, unless the 
     Chairman and Ranking Minority Member waive the 48 hour 
     waiting period or unless the Subcommittee Chairman certifies 
     in writing to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member that, 
     in his or her opinion, it is necessary to issue the subpoena 
     immediately.

                          ____________________



