

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          VENEZUELA SANCTIONS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, yesterday the new administration, 
including Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, OFAC, 
took decisive action to hold Venezuelan regime officials accountable 
for their elicit activity.
  The announcement was that two Venezuelan nationals were labeled as 
``specially designated narcotics traffickers'' pursuant to the Kingpin 
Act, including Venezuela's second in command, the Vice President of 
Venezuela, and his front man, Lopez Bello. It also identified 13 
companies owned or controlled by these individuals or other designated 
parties that pose a serious threat to U.S. national security as well as 
the U.S. and global financial systems. These designations were long 
overdue, Mr. Speaker, and represent a significant first step in what 
appears to be a positive, fundamental shift in our policy toward 
Venezuela.
  Just yesterday, my colleague Mario Diaz-Balart and I met with Vice 
President Pence to discuss Venezuela and how Congress and the 
administration can work together to craft a positive agenda to help the 
people in Latin America suffering without democracy or human rights.
  Last week, Senator Bob Menendez of New Jersey and I led a bipartisan 
and bicameral letter--together with 32 of our congressional 
colleagues--to the President urging his administration to take 
immediate action against the Maduro regime for his illicit activity and 
for its gross human rights abuses. While this round of sanctions target 
the illegal drug activities of these officials, this is just the tip of 
the corruption iceberg in Venezuela, Mr. Speaker.
  In fact, Venezuela's so-called Executive Vice President has 
facilitated drug shipments, has protected drug traffickers in 
Venezuela, and has alleged links with the U.S.-designated foreign 
terrorist organization and Iranian proxy, Hezbollah. According to OFAC, 
the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the second individual also 
sanctioned is Lopez Bello, who laundered drug proceeds and generated 
significant profits as a result of illegal activities.
  Holy Toledo.
  While these announced sanctions were a critical first step, it pales 
in comparison to the dire humanitarian situation that Maduro and his 
cronies have created for the people of Venezuela. Mr. Speaker, 
Venezuela has been on a downward spiral for years, and there have been 
bipartisan calls from Congress to take action in support of the 
Venezuelan people.

  Maduro's failed economic policies have the country with the highest 
inflation rate in the world leaving his people without food, without 
basic necessities, without medical supplies. In most areas, hospitals 
and groceries have shut down due to lack of supplies, and the people of 
Venezuela are forced to ransack what is left of these hospitals and 
stores for the basic survival of their families.
  How does the regime react when they see the suffering of their own 
citizens? They are lining their own pockets at the expense and the 
suffering of the Venezuelan people. An AP report showed that senior-
level officials like Generals Rodolfo Marco Torres and Carlos Osorio 
are allegedly orchestrating fraudulent schemes with suspected shell 
companies to personally profit, instead of bringing food to the people.
  Opposition leaders like Leopoldo Lopez and Antonio Ledesma are still 
in jail or under house arrest. Leaders like Maria Corina Machado of the 
National Congress is still not allowed to travel outside her country. 
This is unacceptable, Mr. Speaker. Their so-called crimes: speaking out 
against the Maduro regime and standing up for democratic principles.
  The regime stifles all who stand for democracy and freedom in 
Venezuela. The opposition is vilified, is persecuted, and is arrested 
on false charges. We must show Venezuelans that their fight is not in 
vain, that their actions are seen, and that their cries are heard.
  Next on the sanctions list should be the judges and officers of these 
kangaroo courts in Venezuela who are behind this unwarranted 
incarceration and are responsible for the injustices and human rights 
violations.
  Mr. Speaker, this is what America is all about. We stand firmly by 
our values, firmly in our ideals, and we promote and defend them, and 
we try to have other parts of the world be enlightened in this way.
  Hope is dwindling quickly in Venezuela. As human rights violations 
multiply, now is the time to hold Venezuelan regime officials 
accountable, and we urge all responsible nations to join us in this 
struggle.

                          ____________________



