

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2214-S2215]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 807. A bill to provide anti-retaliation protections for 
     antitrust whistleblowers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Portman, 
             Mr. Boozman, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Wicker, 
             Mr. Rounds, Ms. Murkowski, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Manchin, 
             and Mrs. Ernst):
       S. 808. A bill to provide protections for certain sports 
     medicine professionals who provide certain medical services 
     in a secondary State; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms. Warren):
       S. 809. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
     study the feasibility of providing certain taxpayers with an 
     optional, pre-prepared tax return, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 810. A bill to facilitate construction of a bridge on 
     certain property in Christian County, Missouri, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Lee, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Mr. Risch, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Rubio, 
             and Mr. Sasse):
       S. 811. A bill to ensure that organizations with religious 
     or moral convictions are allowed to continue to provide 
     services for children; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 812. A bill to amend title 35, United States Code, to 
     provide for an exception from infringement for certain 
     component parts of motor vehicles; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY:
       S. 813. A bill to amend the Packers and Stockyards Act, 
     1921, to make it unlawful for a packer to own, feed, or 
     control livestock intended for slaughter; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH:
       S. 814. A bill to require that States receiving Byrne JAG 
     funds to require sensitivity training for law enforcement 
     officers of that State and to incentivize States to enact 
     laws requiring the independent investigation and prosecution 
     of the use of deadly force by law enforcement officers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mr. Schumer):
       S. 815. A bill to amend titles XVIII and XIX of the Social 
     Security Act to make premium and cost-sharing subsidies 
     available to low-income Medicare part D beneficiaries who 
     reside in Puerto Rico or another territory of the United 
     States; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Burr, and Mr. Van 
             Hollen):
       S. 816. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow rollovers from 529 programs to ABLE accounts; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Burr, and Mr. Van 
             Hollen):
       S. 817. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to increase the age requirement with respect to eligibility 
     for qualified ABLE programs; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. Casey, Mr. Van Hollen, 
             and Mr. Moran):
       S. 818. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow individuals with disabilities to save additional 
     amounts in their ABLE accounts above the current annual 
     maximum contribution if they work and earn income; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Durbin, 
             Mr. Menendez, Mr. Coons, Mr. Brown, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
             Casey, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Van Hollen, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Markey, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Heinrich, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Booker, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Sanders, Ms. Warren, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Carper, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mrs. McCaskill, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Warner, Ms. Harris, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Nelson, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Kaine, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Tester, Ms. Duckworth, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 819. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to provide more effective remedies to victims of 
     discrimination in the payment of wages on the basis of sex, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Schumer, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Van Hollen, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Franken, Mrs. McCaskill, Ms. Cantwell, 
             Mr. Wyden, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Peters, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Udall, 
             Mr. Merkley, Mr. Casey, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Murphy, Mr. Tester, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Sanders, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mr. Reed, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Nelson, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Carper, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Ms. Cortez

[[Page S2215]]

             Masto, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Brown, Ms. Harris, and Mr. 
             Menendez):
       S. 820. A bill to designate a portion of the Arctic 
     National Wildlife Refuge as wilderness; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 821. A bill to promote access for United States 
     officials, journalists, and other citizens to Tibetans areas 
     of the People's Republic of China, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. Markey, Mr. Rounds, Mr. 
             Booker, and Mr. Crapo):
       S. 822. A bill to amend the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to modify 
     provisions relating to grants, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 823. A bill to ensure the digital contents of electronic 
     equipment and online accounts belonging to or in the 
     possession of United States persons entering or exiting the 
     United States are adequately protected at the border, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Isakson, and 
             Mr. Warner):
       S. 824. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the Internal Revenue Service from carrying out 
     seizures relating to a structuring transaction unless the 
     property to be seized derived from an illegal source or the 
     funds were structured for the purpose of concealing the 
     violation of another criminal law or regulation, to require 
     notice and a post-seizure hearing for such seizures, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
       S. 825. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     property to the Southeast Alaska Regional Health Consortium 
     located in Sitka, Alaska, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Inhofe, 
             Mr. Booker, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 826. A bill to reauthorize the Partners for Fish and 
     Wildlife Program and certain wildlife conservation funds, to 
     establish prize competitions relating to the prevention of 
     wildlife poaching and trafficking, wildlife conservation, the 
     management of invasive species, and the protection of 
     endangered species, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Environment and Public Works.

                          ____________________



