

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 56 (Thursday, March 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2152]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 775. A bill to streamline the R-1 religious worker visa 
     petition process; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 776. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the taxation and regulation of marijuana 
     products, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Paul, Mr. Bennet, and 
             Mrs. Murray):
       S. 777. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow deductions and credits relating to expenditures in 
     connection with marijuana sales conducted in compliance with 
     State law; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Manchin, and Mr. King):
       S. 778. A bill to require the use of prescription drug 
     monitoring programs and to facilitate information sharing 
     among States; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Grassley, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 779. A bill to enhance civil penalties under the Federal 
     securities laws, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 780. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     reduce the gap between Federal and State marijuana policy, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. King, and Mr. 
             Manchin):
       S. 781. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     limit the liability of health care professionals who 
     volunteer to provide health care services in response to a 
     disaster; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Heller, 
             and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 782. A bill to reauthorize the National Internet Crimes 
     Against Children Task Force Program, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 783. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     distribute maternity care health professionals to health 
     professional shortage areas identified as in need of 
     maternity care health services; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Moran, Mr. 
             Boozman, Mr. Heller, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Rounds, Mr. 
             Tillis, Mr. Sullivan, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 784. A bill to provide for an increase, effective 
     December 1, 2017 , in the rates of compensation for veterans 
     with service-connected disabilities and the rates of 
     dependency and indemnity compensation for the survivors of 
     certain disabled veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 785. A bill to amend the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
     Act to provide for equitable allotment of land to Alaska 
     Native veterans; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 786. A bill to establish a grant program relating to the 
     prevention of student and student athlete opioid misuse; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 787. A bill to require the Center for Medicare and 
     Medicaid Innovation to test the effect of including 
     telehealth services in Medicare health care delivery reform 
     models; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. McCAIN:
       S. 788. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to conduct an independent review of the deaths of certain 
     veterans by suicide, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Cotton, and 
             Mr. Boozman):
       S. 789. A bill to exempt from the Lacey Act and the Lacey 
     Act Amendments of 1981 certain water transfers between any of 
     the States of Texas, Arkansas, and Louisiana; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 790. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to encourage innovation, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr. Risch):
       S. 791. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to expand 
     intellectual property education and training for small 
     businesses, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small 
     Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr. King, Mr. Thune, Ms. 
             Collins, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Murkowski, and 
             Mr. Blunt):
       S. 792. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act 
     to establish an H-2B temporary non-agricultural work visa 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Ms. Cantwell, 
             Mr. McCain, Mr. Peters, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Wicker, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Portman, and Mr. 
             Schatz):
       S. 793. A bill to prohibit sale of shark fins, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Boozman, 
             and Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 794. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act in order to improve the process whereby Medicare 
     administrative contractors issue local coverage 
     determinations under the Medicare program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 795. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 regarding dual or concurrent 
     enrollment and early college high schools; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Thune, and Mr. King):
       S. 796. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to extend the exclusion for employer-provided education 
     assistance to employer payments of student loans; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 797. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to make permanent the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance 
     matching grant program; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Brown, and Mr. 
             Tillis):
       S. 798. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     expand the Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement Program 
     to apply to individuals pursuing programs of education while 
     on active duty, to recipients of the Marine Gunnery Sergeant 
     John David Fry scholarship, and to programs of education 
     pursued on half-time basis or less, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 799. A bill to simplify and improve the Federal student 
     loan program through income-contingent repayment to provide 
     stronger protections for borrowers, encourage responsible 
     borrowing, and save money for taxpayers; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. 
             Durbin):
       S. 800. A bill to protect taxpayers from liability 
     associated with the reclamation of surface coal mining 
     operations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Tester, 
             and Mr. Manchin):
       S.J. Res. 39. A joint resolution proposing a balanced 
     budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



