

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1161-S1162]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 94

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 94, a bill to impose sanctions in 
response to cyber intrusions by the Government of the Russian 
Federation and other aggressive activities of the Russian Federation, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the Environmental 
Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely for 
competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 234

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 234, a bill to provide incentives for 
businesses to keep jobs in America.


                                 S. 242

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 242, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to permit veterans to grant access to their records in the 
databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration to certain designated 
congressional employees, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 243

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 243, a bill to 
provide for a permanent extension of the enforcement instruction on 
supervision requirements for outpatient therapeutic services in 
critical access and small rural hospitals.


                                 S. 247

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 247, a bill to provide an 
incentive for businesses to bring jobs back to America.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator 
from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) were added as cosponsors of S. 253, a 
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the 
Medicare outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator 
from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) were added as cosponsors of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 268

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Arkansas

[[Page S1162]]

(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 268, a bill to provide the 
legal framework necessary for the growth of innovative private 
financing options for students to fund postsecondary education, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 272

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 272, a bill to enhance the 
security operations of the Transportation Security Administration and 
the stability of the transportation security workforce by applying a 
unified personnel system under title 5, United States Code, to 
employees of the Transportation Security Administration who are 
responsible for screening passengers and property, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care 
services for veterans.


                              S.J. RES. 8

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 8, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relating to contributions and expenditures intended to affect 
elections.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.

                          ____________________



