

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S446-S447]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 21

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) and the Senator from 
Arizona (Mr. Flake) were added as cosponsors of S. 21, a bill to amend 
chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide that major rules 
of the executive branch shall have no force or effect unless a joint 
resolution of approval is enacted into law.


                                 S. 26

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 26, a bill to 
amend the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require the disclosure of 
certain tax returns by Presidents and certain candidates for the office 
of the President, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to establish an 
independent commission to examine and report on the facts regarding the 
extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber operations and other 
attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States national election, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 47

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 47, a bill to prevent proposed 
regulations relating to restrictions on liquidation of an interest with 
respect to estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer taxes from 
taking effect.


                                 S. 54

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 54, a bill to prohibit the creation of an immigration-related 
registry program that classifies people on the basis of religion, race, 
age, gender, ethnicity, national origin, nationality, or citizenship.


                                 S. 56

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 56, a bill to require each 
agency to repeal or amend 2 or more rules before issuing or amending a 
rule.


                                 S. 80

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 80, a bill to protect the 
right of individuals to bear arms at water resources development 
projects.


                                 S. 81

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 81, a bill to establish an 
advisory office within the Bureau of Consumer Protection of the Federal 
Trade Commission to prevent fraud targeting seniors, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 86

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 86, a bill to amend the Veterans 
Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the 
termination date for the Veterans Choice Program.


                                 S. 104

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) and 
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 104, a bill to provide for the vacating of certain convictions and 
expungement of certain arrests of victims of human trafficking.


                                 S. 139

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 139, a bill to implement the 
use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release 
or detention and their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes 
and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis 
backlogs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 143

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 143, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against income tax for 
amounts paid by a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces for a new 
State license or certification required by reason of a permanent change 
in the duty station of such member to another State.


                                 S. 145

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 145, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to more 
efficiently develop domestic sources of the minerals and mineral 
materials of strategic and critical importance to the economic and 
national security and manufacturing competitiveness of the United 
States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 166

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. McConnell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 166, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of 
Muhammad Ali.


                                 S. 168

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz), the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator 
from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added as cosponsors of S. 168, a 
bill to amend and enhance certain maritime programs of the Department 
of Transportation.


                                 S. 169

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 169, a bill to counter anti-Semitism at 
the United Nations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford), the 
Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young), the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. 
Capito), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), the Senator from 
Georgia (Mr. Perdue) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 170, a bill to provide for nonpreemption of 
measures by State and local governments to divest from entities that 
engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, divestment, 
or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 179

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 179, a bill to 
expand the use of E-Verify, to hold employers accountable, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 184

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 184, a bill to 
prohibit taxpayer funded abortions.


                              S.J. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris), the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), 
the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich), the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 5, a joint resolution removing the 
deadline for the ratification of the equal rights amendment.


                              S.J. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of

[[Page S447]]

S.J. Res. 6, a joint resolution proposing an amendment to the 
Constitution of the United States relative to equal rights for men and 
women.


                             S. CON. RES. 4

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 4, a 
concurrent resolution clarifying any potential misunderstanding as to 
whether actions taken by President-elect Donald Trump constitute a 
violation of the Emoluments Clause, and calling on President-elect 
Trump to divest his interest in, and sever his relationship to, the 
Trump Organization.


                               S. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 6, a 
resolution objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 
and to all efforts that undermine direct negotiations between Israel 
and the Palestinians for a secure and peaceful settlement.


                               S. RES. 9

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 9, a resolution 
honoring in praise and remembrance the extraordinary life, steady 
leadership, and remarkable, 70-year reign of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of 
Thailand.


                               S. RES. 15

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 15, a resolution expressing 
the sense of the Senate that the Mexico City policy should be 
permanently established.

                          ____________________



