

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H753-H754]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   A NATION THAT WELCOMES AND RESPECTS PEOPLE FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I have had the privilege of working 
with Republican and Democratic Presidents, and, I might add, that I 
have had the sadness to be standing with them during times of need of 
this Nation. Living knowledge, during my tenure, President George W. 
Bush was President during 9/11.
  I was in this Capitol on September 11, 2001, and so I was physically 
evacuated. As we were leaving with no understanding of what was 
happening--particularly for those of us who had come for early morning 
meetings, not having the full impact of what had happened in New York 
and not having the full knowledge. But as we were fleeing this 
building, we took a look to our right. We could see the billowing black 
smoke in the Pentagon. We were running for our lives. We were running 
as Americans, Muslims, Jews, Christians, people of many faiths, many 
races, many genders, many orientations. We were running as Americans.
  Those families at Ground Zero watched in horror or heard in horror of 
their loved ones lost, in spite of the heroic efforts of first 
responders. First responders were lost. There, too, was a multitude of 
the United Nations.
  This Nation has always welcomed and respected people from all over 
the world, and so it disturbs me when those of us who have now taken a 
visible and stoic stand against an unconstitutional executive order 
begin to receive attacks from the very person who should be bringing 
this Nation together.
  I take great insult from the firing of Deputy Attorney General Sally 
Yates, a person whom I have worked with personally as a senior member 
of the House Judiciary Committee. She is of profound integrity, 
honesty, respectability, and professionalism. I congratulate Deputy 
Attorney General Sally Yates for being a patriot.
  Last evening, she rendered this statement: ``In addition, I am 
responsible for ensuring that the positions we take in court remain 
consistent with this institution's solemn obligation to always seek 
justice and stand for what is right. At present, I am not convinced 
that the defense of the executive order is consistent with these 
responsibilities nor am I convinced that the executive order is 
lawful.''
  Responding to that, almost like Nixon, some decades ago, this White 
House fired Attorney General Yates and proceeded to make this 
statement: ``The acting Attorney General, Sally Yates, has betrayed the 
Department of Justice by refusing to enforce a legal order designed to 
protect the citizens of the United States. This order was approved as 
to form and legality by the Department of Justice Office of Legal 
Counsel.''
  Sally Yates explained it, but there is no betrayal of the Department 
of Justice. It is an entity. It is not the American people, and it is 
not a Constitution. She has no obligation to the Department of Justice. 
She has an obligation to the American people to uphold the 
Constitution.

                              {time}  1045

  The White House proceeds to go on to say--I assume President Trump--
``Ms. Yates is an Obama administration appointee who is weak on borders 
and very weak on illegal immigration,'' of which I don't know their 
proof for such.
  But what I will say to you is that she was doing her civic and 
patriotic duty by remaining there as a senior member who was the only 
person there that could sign subpoenas. She was doing America a favor.
  So I will say, in the backdrop of that, were you at the Bush 
Intercontinental Airport, as I was, when an Iraqi citizen came in, a 
legal permanent resident with a green card, and was detained for 5 
hours while his employer and lawyers were gathering and hovering 
outside; and CBP, to my understanding, how frightened they were, how 
they did not know what was going on, did not allow them to be able to 
speak?
  Or did you listen last night when an Iraqi woman indicated that her 
husband was murdered and she hid for 12 years in Iraq until she was 
able to bring her children here?
  Did you hear that refugees are being denied to come in for 120 days 
on Friday, Mr. Speaker, and that their papers will expire?
  Finally, Mr. Speaker, did you hear that the perpetrator in Quebec had 
on his social media that he was supporting or praising President Trump?
  Enough is enough. Repeal this order. Pass the SOLVE Act. Pass the USA 
Act

[[Page H754]]

that I have introduced as well that includes gender and religion.
  Stop this madness. The executive order is unconstitutional.

                          ____________________



