

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2042-S2043]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO DAVID WOLK

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the enduring legacy 
of a champion of education and equity in my home State of Vermont, 
David Wolk.
  For the last 16 years, Mr. David Wolk has served admirably as the 
president of Castleton University. David's retirement at the close of 
2017 will leave a legacy of nearly 17 years of academic excellence, 
visionary leadership, and unmatched commitment to community. As the 
longest serving president in its history, David has led Castleton 
through an extraordinary transformation. David leaves Castleton as a 
vibrant, economic engine of the Green Mountain State and a trailblazer 
in inclusivity, entrepreneurship, and service learning.
  Castleton students have often found a unique kinship with David, 
noting his frequency in the student dining halls and at student club 
events. As an avid fan of Castleton Spartan Athletics, David is proud 
of the accomplishments of the school's student-athletes. The university 
more than doubled its varsity sport offerings during David's tenure, 
enabling Vermont students to play Division III sports. The largest 
community investment was the development of the Spartan Arena, which is 
used by both the school and the community as an all-purpose community 
center and athletic space.
  As a Rutland native, David has always felt a special connection to 
his hometown. As president, his focus on integrating Castleton and the 
surrounding community has built a lasting alliance that promises 
regional prosperity for years to come. Most recently, Castleton has 
partnered with the Rutland Economic Development Corporation to open the 
Castleton Downtown Office, a publicly accessible space for students and 
community members alike. A nexus of the downtown, this space now hosts 
the Center for Entrepreneurial Programs, Center for Schools, Center for 
Community Engagement, and the Castleton Polling Institute. David's 
passion for the arts has also inspired a coupling of the Castleton 
Downtown Art Gallery and the historic Paramount Theatre.
  As the needs of our students, families, and communities continue to 
evolve, David's legacy is his success in elevating education as a key 
solution to addressing our most pressing public challenges. As he 
transitions to his next venture, I wish David and his wife, Lyn, great 
success and hope they will find joy in visiting family and friends 
found throughout the world.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a statement issued by 
Castleton University be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                      [From Castleton University]

   President Wolk Announces 16th Year Will Be His Final at Castleton


    Longest serving president in university history to step down in 
                                December

       Castleton University President Dave Wolk announced at a 
     campus assembly Wednesday that he will step down in December 
     after serving for 16 years as president. Wolk came to the 
     presidency in December of 2001 after intertwined careers in 
     education and government, and 2017 marks his 43rd year in 
     public service. Wolk is the longest serving president in 
     Castleton history by more than four years.
       ``I have been blessed, more than I deserve, to have had so 
     many leadership opportunities over the last 43 years, and I 
     am especially grateful for the last 16 at Castleton. Moving 
     on at the end of 2017 will indeed be emotionally challenging 
     because I absolutely love our students and staff, I am lucky 
     to be part of this exceptional community, and I bleed green, 
     full of Spartan Pride. I will be a Spartan always and 
     forever.''
       Beginning in 2018, Wolk will begin a new startup venture, 
     Wolk Leadership Solutions, with his wife, Lyn. The Wolks will 
     work with CEOs and Boards of Directors in business, 
     government, industry, schools, hospitals, universities and an 
     array of nonprofits to find solutions to leadership 
     challenges. The new entrepreneurial venture will specialize 
     in coaching leaders to achieve greater success, while 
     offering mediation and conflict resolution services.
       ``Our goal will be to help leaders to be more successful. 
     We will help boards and leaders to find solutions to their 
     challenges, and to do so in a way that will be effective and 
     enduring over time through coaching and guiding change. I am 
     also hoping to do some teaching and writing, including 
     involvement in a Vermont leadership institute. Helping people 
     to be better at what they do has always been a passion.''
       At his inauguration in the fall of 2002, Wolk addressed a 
     standing room only crowd

[[Page S2043]]

     and promised that together the Castleton community would take 
     action, and make history. He promised that together they 
     would attract high quality students, invest in their 
     education and in their experiences, improve their campus, and 
     support each other for the benefit of Vermont.
       During Wolk's tenure the university invested nearly $100 
     million in infrastructure improvements, expanded academic 
     offerings at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, and 
     expanded co-curricular activities, which has transformed what 
     was once considered a ``suitcase campus'' into a model for 
     vibrancy and engagement across the state and region.
       ``Castleton has never been in better shape, thanks to 
     President Wolk's visionary and passionate leadership,'' said 
     VSC Chancellor Jeb Spaulding. ``People who visit the campus 
     for the first time in a while are amazed at the 
     transformation that has taken place during his tenure. It 
     will be impossible to replace Dave and we will miss him 
     greatly, but he will leave Castleton with a very strong 
     foundation for success into the future.''
       Since 2001 Castleton has increased its enrollment by more 
     than 75 percent, more than doubled its athletic offerings, 
     built or renovated every building on campus, and expanded 
     into nearby Rutland to offer students better connections with 
     area businesses, schools, hospitals, and non-profits in an 
     effort to enhance the Castleton student experience. Recently, 
     the university has taken over operations of the Rutland 
     Economic Development Corporation, a partnership unlike any 
     other in the country, which has deepened the university's 
     commitment to being an economic and intellectual driver in 
     the community while creating strong outcomes for its 
     students.
       In 2009 Wolk ushered in the Castleton Student Initiative, a 
     $25.7 million project which reinvigorated student life and 
     learning and changed the face of campus. The largest 
     investment in the history of Castleton, and the Vermont State 
     Colleges, it included improvements and additions to nearly 
     every aspect of student life including athletics, the campus 
     center, and the arts. The crown jewel of the project, Spartan 
     Stadium, is one of the finest multi-use facilities in New 
     England and has been central to the growth of Castleton's 
     athletic programs, as well as providing a venue to grow 
     Castleton's reach throughout the state and beyond.
       Currently nearing the midpoint of the university's second 
     ten-year plan, the Castleton Plan, Wolk has most recently 
     overseen additions in graduate education, enrollment 
     increases, a greater presence in Rutland, and a focus on 
     increasing international recruitment. All of these changes 
     culminated in what proved to be one of the most historic days 
     in the institution's storied 230 year history when on July 
     23, 2015 the VSC Board of Trustees unanimously voted to 
     modernize the name to ``Castleton University.'' At the time, 
     Wolk said the name was both aspirational and inspirational, 
     as the community set forth to achieve the goals of the 
     Castleton Plan.
       ``Dave's leadership, not just at Castleton but also among 
     the VSC Council of Presidents and Board of Trustees, will be 
     greatly missed,'' said VSC Board Chair Martha O'Connor. ``He 
     leads with his heart, cares deeply about the state and its 
     students, and has positioned Castleton well for far reaching 
     success now and in the future which will benefit our state 
     for years to come. The board, and I personally, cannot thank 
     him enough for his private candor, public support, and 
     meaningful friendship.''
       Wolk was born and grew up in Rutland. He graduated from 
     Rutland High School and then Middlebury College with a degree 
     in political science. He earned a master's degree in 
     educational administration and planning at UVM and a 
     certificate of advanced graduate study at Harvard University. 
     During his professional career he has served as a school 
     principal, superintendent, Vermont's Commissioner of 
     Education, Vermont State Senator, and on more than 40 boards 
     and commissions, chairing several of them. He plans to 
     continue his life of public service in a variety of ways 
     going forward.

                          ____________________



