

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H754-H755]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          A DECADE OF SERVICE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a Minnesota public 
servant. After nearly a decade of service to his community, my friend 
and St. Michael's former mayor, Jerry Zachman, I congratulate him on 
his retirement.
  Jerry has deep roots in St. Michael, as he is a part of the fifth 
generation of his family to live there, and these strong ties to his 
beloved community, no doubt, inspired Jerry to serve.
  As the community began to grow and develop, his main goal was to 
ensure that St. Michael residents were always put first. I think it is 
safe to say that Jerry did just that. During his 10 years as mayor, 
Jerry made numerous improvements to this ever-growing community and 
city. One major project Jerry played a huge role in is the expansion of 
the I-94 corridor, which cuts through Minnesota's Sixth Congressional 
District.
  I thank Jerry for his unwavering dedication to St. Michael and to our 
great State, and I wish him nothing but the best in his future.


                            An X Games Star

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate an athlete from my 
district who has persevered and conquered, achieved, despite challenges 
that have been presented to him during his life.
  This past week, snowmobile motocross racer Mike Schultz, from St. 
Cloud, Minnesota, won his sixth gold medal at the Winter X Games. Mike 
lost his left leg during a tragic accident in 2008. This past week, he 
competed amongst opponents who were also amputees or partially 
paralyzed.
  Mike Schultz serves as a wonderful reminder of what can be 
accomplished when one never gives up and displays courage in the face 
of extreme challenge. It is inspiring to see a young man come out on 
top against such adversity.
  We are proud of you, Mike, and I look forward to watching you compete 
in the 2017 International Paralympic Committee World Para Snowboard 
Championships in Canada later this year. I have no doubt you will be 
victorious once again.


                        Minnesota's Media Mogul

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate one of the great 
leaders in Minnesota. Stanley S. Hubbard, the president and chairman of 
Hubbard Broadcasting, has been awarded the First Amendment Leadership 
Award from the Radio Television Digital News Foundation. Hubbard 
Broadcasting owns several media outlets, including KSTP, a local news 
affiliate in the great State of Minnesota.
  Stan Hubbard is well-known in his industry. In fact, he has already 
been inducted into the Broadcast & Cable Hall of Fame, and he has 
received the Distinguished Service Award from the National Association 
of Broadcasters.
  The First Amendment Leadership Award is presented annually to a 
business or government leader who has made a significant contribution 
to the protection of the First Amendment and the freedom of the press. 
This award was made for someone like Stan Hubbard.
  Stan Hubbard, of Hubbard Broadcasting, has spent his entire career in 
the media protecting and promoting free speech and a free and 
accountable press.
  Congratulations to you, Stan, and to the entire Hubbard Broadcasting 
family. You deserve this award because you earn it every day.

[[Page H755]]

  

                          ____________________



