

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S655-S656]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Udall, 
             Mr. Leahy, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. King, Ms. 
             Collins, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Donnelly, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Wyden, Mr. Warner, and Mr. Cochran):
       S. 275. A bill to allow the financing by United States 
     persons of sales of agricultural commodities to Cuba; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 276. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     divide the ninth judicial circuit of the United States into 2 
     circuits, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 277. A bill to establish a Rural Telecommunications and 
     Broadband Advisory Committee within the Federal 
     Communications Commission; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 278. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to provide for innovative research and development, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 279. A bill to amend the Water Resources Development Act 
     of 1986 to modify a provision relating to acquisition of 
     beach fill; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 280. A bill to authorize, direct, expedite, and 
     facilitate a land exchange in El Paso and Teller Counties, 
     Colorado, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LEE:
       S. 281. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act 
     to eliminate the per-country numerical limitation for 
     employment-based immigrants, to increase the per-country 
     numerical limitation for family-sponsored immigrants, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Gardner, 
             Mr. Tester, Mr. Risch, Mr. Daines, Mr. Bennet, and 
             Mr. Udall):
       S. 282. A bill to promote the development of renewable 
     energy on public land, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Wyden, and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 283. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the treatment of veterans who participated in the 
     cleanup of Enewetak Atoll as radiation exposed veterans for 
     purposes of the presumption of service-connection of certain 
     disabilities by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN:
       S. 284. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to prevent surprise billing practices, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 285. A bill to ensure adequate use and access to the 
     existing Bolts Ditch headgate and ditch segment within the 
     Holy Cross Wilderness in Eagle County, Colorado, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 286. A bill to require a land conveyance involving the 
     Elkhorn Ranch and the White River National Forest in the 
     State of Colorado, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 287. A bill to update the map of, and modify the maximum 
     acreage available for inclusion in, the Florissant Fossil 
     Beds National Monument; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Blunt, 
             and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 288. A bill to require notice and comment for certain 
     interpretative rules; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 289. A bill to adjust the boundary of the Arapaho 
     National Forest, Colorado, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Boozman):
       S. 290. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a standard home office deduction; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mrs. Feinstein, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 291. A bill to amend the National Security Act of 1947 
     to modify the requirements for membership in the National 
     Security Council and cabinet-level policy forum, and for 
     other purposes; to the Select Committee on Intelligence.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Van Hollen, 
             and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 292. A bill to maximize discovery, and accelerate 
     development and availability, of promising childhood cancer 
     treatments, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself, Mr. Booker, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
             Bennet, Mr. Graham, Mr. Coons, Mrs. Capito, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mr. Peters, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Young, and 
             Mr. Warner):
       S. 293. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the deferral of inclusion in gross income for 
     capital gains reinvested in opportunity zones; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Manchin, Mr. 
             Daines, Mr. Casey, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Boozman, Mr. 
             Tester, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Heller):
       S. 294. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug Administration's 
     jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and to protect 
     jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
     and distribution of traditional and premium cigars; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

[[Page S656]]

  

           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Sullivan, and Ms. 
             Murkowski):
       S. 295. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     provide for the appointment of additional Federal circuit 
     judges, to divide the Ninth Judicial Circuit of the United 
     States into 2 circuits, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr. Daines, and Ms. 
             Murkowski):
       S. 296. A bill to establish a Commission on Structural 
     Alternatives for the Federal Courts of Appeals; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 297. A bill to increase competition in the 
     pharmaceutical industry; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



