

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1070]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to 
establish an independent commission to examine and report on the facts 
regarding the extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber 
operations and other attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States 
national election, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 41

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 41, a bill to 
amend part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate covered part D drug 
prices on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries.


                                 S. 107

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 107, a bill to 
prohibit voluntary or assessed contributions to the United Nations 
until the President certifies to Congress that United Nations Security 
Council Resolution 2334 has been repealed.


                                 S. 108

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 108, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to repeal the excise tax on medical devices.


                                 S. 168

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy), the 
Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. 
Inhofe), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), the Senator from 
Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins), the Senator 
from Indiana (Mr. Young), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and 
the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Shelby) were added as cosponsors of S. 
168, a bill to amend and enhance certain maritime programs of the 
Department of Transportation.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the 
Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely 
for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 245

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 245, a bill to amend the 
Indian Tribal Energy Development and Self Determination Act of 2005, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 255

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 255, a bill to increase the 
rates of pay under the General Schedule and other statutory pay systems 
and for prevailing rate employees by 3.2 percent, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 306

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 306, a bill to 
provide for a biennial budget process and a biennial appropriations 
process and to enhance oversight and the performance of the Federal 
Government.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care 
services for veterans.


                                 S. 334

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 334, a bill to clarify that a State has the sole authority to 
regulate hydraulic fracturing on Federal land within the boundaries of 
the State.


                                 S. 335

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 335, a bill to achieve domestic energy independence by empowering 
States to control the development and production of all forms of energy 
on all available Federal land.


                              S.J. RES. 19

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 19, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection relating to prepaid accounts under the 
Electronic Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act.


                               S. RES. 50

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 50, a resolution 
reaffirming a strong commitment to the United States-Australia alliance 
relationship.

                          ____________________



