

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S680]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 132

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 132, a bill to amend title 54, 
United States Code, to provide for congressional and State approval of 
national monuments and restrictions on the use of national monuments.


                                 S. 166

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 166, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of 
Muhammad Ali.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 170, a bill to provide for nonpreemption of 
measures by State and local governments to divest from entities that 
engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, divestment, 
or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 229

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 229, a bill to provide for 
the confidentiality of information submitted in requests for the 
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 240

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson), the 
Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
Donnelly) were added as cosponsors of S. 240, a bill to nullify the 
effect of the recent executive order that temporarily restricted 
individuals from certain countries from entering the United States.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) and the Senator 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) were added as cosponsors of S. 260, a bill 
to repeal the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
Act providing for the Independent Payment Advisory Board.


                              S.J. RES. 9

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 9, a joint resolution 
providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8, of title 5, 
United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission relating to the disclosure of payments by resource 
extraction issuers.


                              S.J. RES. 11

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 11, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the final rule of the Bureau of Land 
Management relating to ``Waste Prevention, Production Subject to 
Royalties, and Resource Conservation''.


                              S.J. RES. 17

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 17, a 
joint resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.

                          ____________________



