

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1932-S1933]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 693. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative care 
     at accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, 
     nursing schools, social work schools, and other programs, 
     including physician assistant education programs, to promote 
     education and research in palliative care and hospice, and to 
     support the development of faculty careers in academic 
     palliative medicine; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. KING (for himself and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 694. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to increase the standard charitable mileage rate for delivery 
     of meals to elderly, disabled, frail, and at risk 
     individuals; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 695. A bill to avoid duplicative annual reporting under 
     the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Employee Retirement 
     Income Security Act of 1974, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education , Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mrs. McCaskill, and Mr. 
             Heller):
       S. 696. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     appropriately limit the authority to award bonuses to Federal 
     employees; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES:
       S. 697. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to lower the mileage threshold for deduction in determining 
     adjusted gross income of certain expenses of members of 
     reserve components of the Armed Forces, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Ms. Murkowski, Mrs. 
             Murray, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 698. A bill to establish a national program to identify 
     and reduce losses from landslide hazards, to establish a 
     national 3D Elevation Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mrs. Murray, 
             Mr. Markey, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Schatz, and Mr. Franken):
       S. 699. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish mental 
     and behavioral health care to certain individuals discharged 
     or released from the active military, naval, or air service 
     under conditions other than honorable, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Brown, and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 700. A bill to improve the reproductive assistance 
     provided by the Department of Defense and the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to severely wounded, ill, or injured members 
     of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their spouses or partners, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Moran, Mrs. Capito, Mr. King, and Ms. Collins):
       S. 701. A bill to improve the competitiveness of United 
     States manufacturing by designating and supporting 
     manufacturing communities; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. Crapo, and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 702. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     and the Labor Management

[[Page S1933]]

     Relations Act, 1947 to deter labor slowdowns at ports of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr. Roberts):
       S. 703. A bill to extend the authority of the Secretary of 
     the Interior to carry out the Equus Beds Division of the 
     Wichita Project; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.

                          ____________________



