

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2294]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          REPEALING OBAMACARE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Alabama (Mrs. Roby) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. ROBY. Mr. Speaker, 7 years ago this week, in this Chamber, the 
House gave final passage to the Affordable Care Act, better known as 
ObamaCare.
  I wasn't in Congress then. Many of us weren't. But for my fellow 
conservatives here today, that vote 7 years ago marked a decision 
point, or a moment of affirmation, to answer the call to public service 
and to help chart a better way for this country.
  And for 7 years, we have made the case against ObamaCare. As the law 
has been implemented, that case has been largely made for us. Millions 
have been forced away from the healthcare plan and doctor they liked, 
despite being told otherwise.
  This year alone, in Alabama, health insurance premiums are rising by 
58 percent. That is on top of the already steep increases the past 2 
years. Our average deductible for the supposedly affordable bronze plan 
is now $6,000.
  I have heard from countless constituents about the negative impact of 
ObamaCare. I have listened to their stories about how higher costs and 
fewer choices have made it that much harder to keep their families 
healthy and make ends meet.
  And in response, I made a promise--the same promise President Trump 
and every conservative in Congress has made over and over: Give us the 
majority in the House and the Senate, give us a Republican in the White 
House, and we will repeal ObamaCare and replace it with reforms that 
work.
  So, Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that we are finally in a position to 
deliver on that promise. The voters gave us what we asked of them, and 
it is only right that we keep our end of the bargain.
  With the American Health Care Act, we begin the process of repealing 
ObamaCare once and for all. This bill dismantles the taxes, mandates, 
and entitlement spending that make up the core of ObamaCare. It cuts 
taxes on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, insurance 
premiums, and medical devices. It eliminates the individual and 
employer mandate penalties that have forced millions into expensive, 
inadequate plans. It replaces the ObamaCare entitlement with refundable 
tax credits so that people who don't receive insurance through work can 
put their own tax dollars toward a health plan of their choice.
  Mr. Speaker, many people have asked why our plan to repeal and 
replace ObamaCare is a process. Why is this bill only one step and not 
the full package? It is an understandable question. For the last 
several years, Americans have been sold the false hope that government 
has a magic wand with which they can solve all of their problems. The 
truth is, of course, that it can't. It never can. And the only proof 
you need is ObamaCare itself.
  That is why congressional Republicans and the Trump administration 
are taking a completely different approach than President Obama and the 
Democrats used 7 years ago. Instead of claiming we need to pass the 
bill so you can find out what is in it, we have worked in a transparent 
way. The bill text has been posted online for 3 weeks. It has gone 
through three separate committee markups, and will come to the House 
floor in regular order.
  Instead of one giant bill like ObamaCare, we are using a more 
responsible, three-step process. First, we will repeal ObamaCare with 
all its taxes, mandates, and spending through budget reconciliation. 
Next, the Trump administration will use executive authority to weed out 
the more intricate ObamaCare policies one by one to stabilize the 
market and lower costs. And finally, Congress will move forward with 
legislation addressing more specific policies, such as allowing 
individuals to purchase insurance across State lines.
  I believe this will ultimately lead to better, more stable healthcare 
policy that empowers patients, increases choices, and lowers costs.
  Mr. Speaker, no bill is perfect. I am sure if every Member of this 
body came up with their ideal health reform bill, they would each be 
pretty different. It is supposed to be that way, because we all 
represent different districts in different parts of the country with 
different needs.
  There may well be some changes made here in the House or in the 
Senate that can make the bill better. That is part of the process, so I 
certainly remain open to those.
  But, Mr. Speaker, I am confident this bill puts us on a path toward 
lower cost and better care, and away from government-controlled health 
insurance. It represents our opportunity to undo the damage of 
ObamaCare and help American families like we said we would.
  For 7 years, we have been promising, and this is our chance to 
deliver.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the American Health Care 
Act and send it to the Senate, and get us one step closer to delivering 
on our promise.

                          ____________________



