

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1847-S1848]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 9--RECOGNIZING THE GEORGE C. MARSHALL 
MUSEUM AND GEORGE C. MARSHALL RESEARCH LIBRARY IN LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, 
         AS THE NATIONAL GEORGE C. MARSHALL MUSEUM AND LIBRARY

  Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr. Warner) submitted the following 
concurrent resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources:

                             S. Con. Res. 9

       Whereas General George C. Marshall served as Army Chief of 
     Staff during World War II,

[[Page S1848]]

     Special Ambassador to China, Secretary of State, and 
     Secretary of Defense;
       Whereas General George C. Marshall was promoted to General 
     of the Army in 1944, one of only five Army five-star generals 
     in the history of the United States;
       Whereas General George C. Marshall was awarded the 
     Congressional Gold Medal in 1946 for his military strategy 
     and vital role during World War II;
       Whereas General George C. Marshall was awarded the Nobel 
     Peace Prize in 1953 for developing the European economic 
     recovery strategy known as the Marshall Plan;
       Whereas the George C. Marshall Foundation was established 
     in 1953 and is devoted to preserving the legacy of General 
     George C. Marshall through educational scholarship programs 
     and facilities;
       Whereas the George C. Marshall Foundation opened the George 
     C. Marshall Museum and George C. Marshall Research Library in 
     1964 in Lexington, Virginia, on the post of the Virginia 
     Military Institute, which is the alma mater of General George 
     C. Marshall;
       Whereas the George C. Marshall Museum educates the public 
     about the military and diplomatic contributions of General 
     George C. Marshall through extensive exhibits; and
       Whereas the George C. Marshall Research Library maintains 
     the most comprehensive collection of records documenting the 
     life and leadership of General George C. Marshall: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives 
     concurring), That Congress recognizes the George C. Marshall 
     Museum and George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, 
     Virginia, as the National George C. Marshall Museum and 
     Library.

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President. I would like to recognize the George C. 
Marshall Foundation's museum and library as the National George C. 
Marshall Museum. General George C. Marshall was born in Uniontown, PA 
to a Virginia family. He is a distant relative of Chief Justice John 
Marshall, the fourth Supreme Court Justice of the United States. 
General Marshall graduated from the Virginia Military Institute in 1901 
as senior first captain of the Corps of Cadets.
  General Marshall served in a variety of posts in the Philippines, the 
United States, France, and China, distinguishing himself as a military 
leader. In 1939 he was named Chief of Staff by President Roosevelt and 
was responsible for building, supplying, and deploying over 8 million 
soldiers. Marshall also urged military readiness prior to the attack on 
Pearl Harbor.
  After World War II, President Truman sent General Marshall to China 
to broker a coalition government between the Nationalist allies under 
Generalissimo Chaing Kai-shek and the Communists under Mao Zedong. In 
1946, General Marshall received the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor. 
President Truman appointed Marshall Secretary of State in 1947. In what 
became known as the Marshall Plan, as Secretary of State Marshall 
oversaw the postwar European economic recovery strategy. In 1953, 
General Marshall received the Nobel Peace Prize for his postwar work, 
the only career officer in the U.S. Army to ever receive this honor.
  The George C. Marshall Foundation was established in 1953 and 
officially opened in 1964. The foundation's museum is located in 
Lexington, Virginia and is dedicated to educating the public and the 
military and diplomatic career of General George C. Marshall. The 
foundation has devoted its mission to educating the public about the 
important contributions of General Marshall through its museum and 
research Library. The Museum has five extensive exhibits and houses 
General Marshall's Nobel Peace Prize.
  I am proud to introduce this resolution which will recognize and 
honor General George C. Marshall.

                          ____________________



