

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1995]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 723. A bill to extend the deadline for commencement of 
     construction of a hydroelectric project; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
       S. 724. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to modernize 
     authorizations for necessary hydropower approvals; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. McCAIN:
       S. 725. A bill to prohibit the intentional hindering of 
     immigration, border, and customs controls, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 726. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to 
     declassify certain documents related to incidents in which 
     members of the Armed Forces were exposed to toxic substances; 
     to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 727. A bill to increase the worldwide level of 
     employment-based immigrants and to reauthorize the EB-5 
     regional center program; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McCONNELL (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 728. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to provide funds to States and Indian 
     tribes for the purpose of promoting economic revitalization, 
     diversification, and development in economically distressed 
     communities through the reclamation and restoration of land 
     and water resources adversely affected by coal mining carried 
     out before August 3, 1977, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 729. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to acquire approximately 44 acres of land in Martinez, 
     California, for inclusion in the John Muir National Historic 
     Site, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KAINE:
       S. 730. A bill to extend the deadline for commencement of 
     construction of certain hydroelectric projects; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Ms. Harris):
       S. 731. A bill to establish the Sacramento-San Joaquin 
     Delta National Heritage Area; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 732. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a refundable tax credit against income tax for the 
     purchase of qualified access technology for the blind; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Risch, 
             Mr. Manchin, and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 733. A bill to protect and enhance opportunities for 
     recreational hunting, fishing, and shooting, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
       S. 734. A bill to extend a project of the Federal Energy 
     Regulatory Commission involving the Cannonsville Dam; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Heller, and 
             Mr. Roberts):
       S. 735. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
     to require disclosure to States of the basis of 
     determinations under such Act, to ensure use of information 
     provided by State, tribal, and county governments in 
     decisionmaking under such Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Carper, Mr. 
             Risch, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Roberts, Mr. 
             Blunt, and Mr. Boozman):
       S. 736. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for collegiate housing and infrastructure grants; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MARKEY:
       S. 737. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to improve 
     coal leasing, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             Casey, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 738. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to provide funds to States and Indian 
     tribes for the purpose of promoting economic revitalization, 
     diversification, and development in economically distressed 
     communities through the reclamation and restoration of land 
     and water resources adversely affected by coal mining carried 
     out before August 3, 1977, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



