

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H201-H203]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 NATIONAL CLINICAL CARE COMMISSION ACT

  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 309) to amend the Public Health Service Act to foster more 
effective implementation and coordination of clinical care for people 
with a complex metabolic or autoimmune disease, a disease resulting 
from insulin deficiency or insulin resistance, or complications caused 
by such a disease, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 309

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``National Clinical Care 
     Commission Act''.

     SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL CLINICAL CARE COMMISSION.

       Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 
     U.S.C. 280g et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new section:

     ``SEC. 399V-7. NATIONAL CLINICAL CARE COMMISSION.

       ``(a) Establishment.--There is hereby established, within 
     the Department of Health and Human Services, a National 
     Clinical Care Commission (in this section referred to as the 
     `Commission') to evaluate, and recommend solutions regarding 
     better coordination and leveraging of, programs within the 
     Department and other Federal agencies that relate in any way 
     to supporting appropriate clinical care (such as any 
     interactions between physicians and other health care 
     providers and their patients related to treatment and care 
     management) for individuals with--
       ``(1) one or more complex metabolic or autoimmune diseases;
       ``(2) one or more diseases resulting from insulin 
     deficiency or insulin resistance; or
       ``(3) complications caused by one or more of any of such 
     diseases.
       ``(b) Membership.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Commission shall be composed of the 
     following voting members:
       ``(A) The heads (or their designees) of the following 
     Federal agencies and departments:
       ``(i) The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
       ``(ii) The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
       ``(iii) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
       ``(iv) The Indian Health Service.
       ``(v) The Department of Veterans Affairs.
       ``(vi) The National Institutes of Health.
       ``(vii) The Food and Drug Administration.
       ``(viii) The Health Resources and Services Administration.
       ``(ix) The Department of Defense.
       ``(B) Twelve additional voting members appointed under 
     paragraph (2).
       ``(C) Such additional voting members as may be appointed by 
     the Secretary, at the Secretary's discretion, from among the 
     heads (or their designees) of governmental or nongovernmental 
     entities that impact clinical care of individuals with any of 
     the diseases and complications described in subsection (a).
       ``(2) Additional members.--The Commission shall include 
     additional voting members appointed by the Secretary, in 
     consultation with national medical societies and patient 
     advocacy organizations with expertise in the care and 
     epidemiology of any of the diseases and complications 
     described in subsection (a), including one or more such 
     members from each of the following categories:
       ``(A) Clinical endocrinologists.
       ``(B) Physician specialties (other than as described in 
     subparagraph (A)) that play a role in diseases and 
     complications described in subsection (a), such as 
     cardiologists, nephrologists, and eye care professionals.
       ``(C) Primary care physicians.
       ``(D) Non-physician health care professionals, such as 
     certified diabetes educators, registered dieticians and 
     nutrition professionals, nurses, nurse practitioners, 
     physician assistants.
       ``(E) Patient advocates.
       ``(F) National experts in the duties listed under 
     subsection (c).
       ``(G) Health care providers furnishing services to a 
     patient population that consists of a high percentage (as 
     specified by the Secretary) of individuals who are enrolled 
     in a State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act or 
     who are not covered under a health plan or health insurance 
     coverage.
       ``(3) Chairperson.--The voting members of the Commission 
     shall select a chairperson from the members appointed under 
     paragraph (2) from the category under paragraph (2)(A).
       ``(4) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at least twice, 
     and not more than 4 times, a year.
       ``(5) Board terms.--Members of the Commission appointed 
     pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1), 
     including the chairperson, shall serve for a 3-year term. A 
     vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner 
     as the original appointments.
       ``(c) Duties.--The Commission shall--
       ``(1) evaluate programs of the Department of Health and 
     Human Services regarding the utilization of diabetes 
     screening benefits, annual wellness visits, and other 
     preventive health benefits that may reduce the incidence of 
     the diseases and complications described in subsection (a), 
     including identifying problems regarding such utilization and 
     related data collection mechanisms and make recommendations;
       ``(2) identify current activities and critical gaps in 
     Federal efforts to support clinicians in providing 
     integrated, high-quality care to individuals with any of the 
     diseases and complications described in subsection (a);
       ``(3) make recommendations regarding the coordination of 
     clinically based activities that are being supported by the 
     Federal Government with respect to the diseases and 
     complications described in subsection (a);
       ``(4) make recommendations regarding the development and 
     coordination of federally funded clinical practice support 
     tools for physicians and other health care professionals in 
     caring for and managing the care of individuals with any of 
     the diseases and complications described in subsection (a), 
     specifically with regard to implementation of new treatments 
     and technologies;
       ``(5) evaluate programs described in subsection (a) that 
     are in existence as of the date of the enactment of this 
     section and determine if such programs are meeting the needs 
     identified in paragraph (2) and, if such programs are 
     determined as not meeting such needs, recommend programs that 
     would be more appropriate;
       ``(6) recommend, with respect to the diseases and 
     complications described in subsection (a), clinical pathways 
     for new technologies and treatments, including future data 
     collection activities, that may be developed and then used to 
     evaluate--
       ``(A) various care models and methods; and
       ``(B) the impact of such models and methods on quality of 
     care as measured by appropriate care parameters (such as A1C, 
     blood pressure, and cholesterol levels);
       ``(7) evaluate and expand education and awareness 
     activities provided to physicians and other health care 
     professionals regarding clinical practices for the prevention 
     and treatment of the diseases and complications described in 
     subsection (a);
       ``(8) review and recommend appropriate methods for outreach 
     and dissemination of educational resources that--
       ``(A) address the diseases and complications described in 
     subsection (a);
       ``(B) are funded by the Federal Government; and
       ``(C) are intended for health care professionals and the 
     public; and
       ``(9) carry out other activities, such as activities 
     relating to the areas of public health and nutrition, that 
     the Commission deems appropriate with respect to the diseases 
     and complications described in subsection (a).
       ``(d) Operating Plan.--
       ``(1) Initial plan.--Not later than 90 days after its first 
     meeting, the Commission shall submit to the Secretary and the 
     Congress an operating plan for carrying out the activities of 
     the Commission as described in subsection (c). Such operating 
     plan may include--
       ``(A) a list of specific activities that the Commission 
     plans to conduct for purposes of carrying out the duties 
     described in each of the paragraphs in subsection (c);
       ``(B) a plan for completing the activities;
       ``(C) a list of members of the Commission and other 
     individuals who are not members of the Commission who will 
     need to be involved to conduct such activities;
       ``(D) an explanation of Federal agency involvement and 
     coordination needed to conduct such activities;
       ``(E) a budget for conducting such activities;
       ``(F) a plan for evaluating the value and potential impact 
     of the Commission's work and recommendations, including the 
     possible continuation of the Commission for the purposes of 
     overseeing their implementation; and
       ``(G) other information that the Commission deems 
     appropriate.
       ``(2) Updates.--The Commission shall periodically update 
     the operating plan under paragraph (1) and submit such 
     updates to the Secretary and the Congress.
       ``(e) Final Report.--By not later than 3 years after the 
     date of the Commission's first meeting, the Commission shall 
     submit to the Secretary and the Congress a final report 
     containing all of the findings and recommendations required 
     by this section. Not later than 120 days after the submission 
     of the final report, the Secretary shall review the plan 
     required by subsection (d)(1)(F) and

[[Page H202]]

     submit to the Congress a recommendation on whether the 
     Commission should be reauthorized to operate after fiscal 
     year 2021.
       ``(f) Sunset.--The Commission shall terminate 120 days 
     after submitting its final report, but not later than the end 
     of fiscal year 2021.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Burgess) and the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gene Green) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Burgess).


                             General Leave

  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
insert extraneous materials in the Record on the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 309, the National 
Clinical Care Commission Act, introduced by Representative Pete Olson 
and which was supported by over 229 cosponsors in the 114th Congress.
  H.R. 309 establishes a clinical care commission to evaluate and 
recommend solutions regarding better coordinating and leveraging of 
Federal programs related to complex metabolic or autoimmune disorders, 
such as diabetes.
  Metabolic disorders take a large toll on many Americans each year, 
and complications from these disorders can lead to catastrophic health 
outcomes. Currently, there are various programs across the Federal 
Government that touch on metabolic disorders--some focus on prevention 
and others focus on treatment--but there is a lack of coordination 
among these programs. Improving coordination of such efforts provides 
an opportunity to reduce costs while improving health outcomes.
  This legislation received broad support from the Energy and Commerce 
Committee, passing through a full committee markup by a voice vote 
during the 114th Congress.
  H.R. 309 provides no new spending and utilizes only existing funds at 
the Department of Health and Human Services.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 309, sponsored by my Texas neighbor, 
Congressman Pete Olson, and our other colleague on the Energy and 
Commerce Committee, David Loebsack of Iowa, the National Clinical Care 
Commission Act.
  This legislation aims to improve Federal efforts to treat and prevent 
metabolic disorders, autoimmune diseases, and diseases resulting from 
insulin deficiency or insulin resistance.
  The most common metabolic disorder in the U.S. is diabetes, which 
affects more than 29 million Americans. Racial and ethnic minority 
communities suffer increased rates of this condition. 15.9 percent of 
American Indians and Alaskan Natives, 13.2 percent of non-Hispanic 
Blacks, and 12.8 percent of Hispanics have diagnosed diabetes, compared 
to just 7.6 percent of non-Hispanic Whites.
  Diabetes takes a huge toll on human health. It is the seventh leading 
cause of death in the United States. Additionally, all too often, 
diabetes leads to avoidable complications such as blindness, limb 
amputation, and kidney failure.
  In addition to the effects on human health, diabetes care makes up a 
large percentage of U.S. healthcare expenditures. Currently, $1 of 
every $5 of healthcare costs is spent on caring for people with 
diabetes. The proportion of Medicare funding is even greater. 
Currently, $1 of every $3 of Medicare expenditures is spent caring for 
people with diabetes.
  That is why it is important to improve Federal efforts that prevent 
avoidable cases of diabetes and metabolic disorders and ensure all 
Americans have treatment and management of services necessary to 
successfully manage this and other of these conditions.
  I am glad to see this legislation move forward, and I urge my 
colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 309.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Olson).
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Denton, Texas (Mr. 
Burgess) for yielding me time to speak about my bill, H.R. 309, the 
National Clinical Care Commission Act, a bipartisan bill that received 
unanimous support in the last Congress and was cosponsored by over half 
of my House colleagues.
  It had this level of support because our Nation faces an epidemic. 
Diabetes or prediabetes affects over 100 million Americans. Nearly one 
in three of our neighbors is affected. This is in addition to all of 
the Americans whose diseases fall under complex metabolic, autoimmune, 
or insulin-resistant diseases.
  When I first came to Congress in 2009, it was crystal clear that we 
had a big problem. The benefits of all the Federal research dollars 
going into these diseases were simply not making their way to patients. 
Researchers at the NIH, the CDC, the FDA, and even DOD weren't sharing 
diabetes research.
  It was clear to me in 2009, and it is clear today in 2017, that we 
need a laser-like focus on improving patient care by pursuing a strong 
Federal focus on research.
  My bill accomplishes that goal by creating a national clinical care 
commission comprised of doctors who specialize in diabetes care for 
patients. This commission will have 3 years to strengthen their 
partnership between Federal stakeholders and health professionals, who 
will bring hands-on clinical experience to improve care.
  This is not a new, unending bureaucracy. After 3 years, this 
commission will sunset. In 3 years, it will be gone.
  We have already made a huge investment of taxpayer dollars into 
research. It is time for us to leverage that investment and translate 
that into meaningful prevention and effective treatment options.
  So today, I ask my colleagues to again help those who suffer from 
diabetes or other complex metabolic and autoimmune disorders by voting 
for H.R. 309.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no other speakers.
  I reserve the balance of my time in case someone shows up.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Carter), a new member of the Energy and Commerce 
Committee.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 
1192, the National Diabetes Clinical Care Commission Act, which 
establishes within the Department of Health and Human Services the 
national diabetes clinical care commission.
  The commission will look into dissemination of information and 
resources to clinicians on best practices for delivering high-quality 
care and how best to effectively deploy new and emerging treatments and 
technologies.
  As a pharmacist, I play an important role in diabetes care by 
screening patients who had a high risk for diabetes and educating 
patients to empower them to take better care of themselves. I believe 
all of my colleagues would agree that making government work to help 
evaluate and recommend solutions regarding diabetes is important.
  The American Diabetes Association reports that there are almost 30 
million people living with this disease. With better coordination and 
leveraging of Federal programs that relate to clinical care for people 
with diabetes and chronic diseases and conditions caused by diabetes, 
we will begin to stem the tide of this awful disease.
  This legislation should be a priority for our country, and I urge my 
colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I want to welcome the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Carter) to the Energy and Commerce Committee.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers at this time.
  This is a good bill. It did pass at the end of last Congress. Maybe 
by passing at the beginning of this Congress, we will give the other 
body ample time to take it up this year.
  It is a good bill. It is worthy of our consideration again today. It 
provides no new spending.

[[Page H203]]

  I urge passage of H.R. 309.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Burgess) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 309.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



