

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1133]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          TRIBUTE TO TIM TEBOW

  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, finally, on a separate topic, I did want to 
take this moment to recognize someone I am proud to represent in the 
Senate. He is a fellow Floridian and a constituent by the name of Tim 
Tebow. By now, a lot of people know I am proud to be a University of 
Florida alum. So as a proud Gator fan, I have been rooting for Tim 
Tebow since he first stepped foot on campus in 2006.
  He went on to win two national championships, becoming the first 
sophomore to win the Heisman Trophy, and in the process he rewrote the 
record books. When I was the Speaker of the Florida House of 
Representatives, we hosted the Gators championship team. One of my 
favorite memories of my time in State government was catching a pass 
from Tim Tebow--No. 15--on the floor of the Florida House. It was not a 
great pass, but I caught it. The rules are a little different in the 
Senate. I wish it were OK to throw passes in here, but it was a great 
pleasure to be able to do that.
  From the moment Tim arrived in Gainesville, we football fans saw that 
he was as good as advertised on the field, but we also started learning 
that as good a football player as he is, he is an even more 
extraordinary human being off the field.
  He is a man to much has been given, whether it was the chance to be 
born to two great parents, an incredible support network, and of course 
God. He has been given much, and he has given back even more. We saw 
this once again this past Friday, when the Tim Tebow Foundation held 
its Night to Shine Initiative, an annual prom for special needs 
students from all over the world.
  All told, 375 churches participated as Night to Shine hosts in all 50 
States, 11 countries, and on 6 continents. There were 150,000 
volunteers, and 75,000 special needs students were the guests of honor 
at events across the world. I encourage those of you here today or 
watching this or watching this in the future to Google search Night to 
Shine, to visit Tim Tebow's Facebook page, or to see the hashtag 
``Night to Shine'' on Twitter. There you will see all of the photos 
that have been shared from Friday night's events. You will see 75,000 
young people with special needs having the time of their lives. You 
will see volunteers and teachers and especially parents overcome with 
joy and emotion at the sight of their children feeling as loved, as 
important, and as special as each and every one of them truly is.
  Personally, I was very moved. So I wanted to take a few minutes this 
evening to recognize Tim Tebow, the Tebow Foundation, the churches and 
the volunteers who participated, and all of the incredible students and 
parents who inspire us every day. I know I speak on behalf of the 
entire Gator Nation--I should say the entire State of Florida--in 
saying that we are proud of Tim. We are even prouder of all he has done 
and continues to do.

  With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



