

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H771-H772]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            ENSURING RELIABLE AIR SERVICE IN AMERICAN SAMOA

  Mr. LoBIONDO. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 276) a bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to ensure 
reliable air service in American Samoa, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 276

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. RELIABLE AIR SERVICE IN AMERICAN SAMOA.

       Section 40109(g) of title 49, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (C) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(C) review the exemption at least every 30 days (or, in 
     the case of exemptions that are necessary to provide and 
     sustain air transportation in American Samoa between the 
     islands of Tutuila and Manu'a, at least every 180 days), to 
     ensure that the unusual circumstances that established the 
     need for the exemption still exist.''; and
       (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
       ``(3) Renewal of exemptions.--
       ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
     the Secretary may renew an exemption (including renewals) 
     under this subsection for not more than 30 days.
       ``(B) Exception.--An exemption that is necessary to provide 
     and sustain air transportation in American Samoa between the 
     islands of Tutuila and Manu'a, may be renewed for not more 
     than 180 days.
       ``(4) Continuation of exemptions.--An exemption may 
     continue for not more than 5 days after the unusual 
     circumstances that established the need for the exemption 
     cease.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. LoBiondo) and the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Larsen) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.


                             General Leave

  Mr. LoBIONDO. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material on H.R. 276.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. LoBIONDO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise today in support of H.R. 276, as amended. This bill will 
improve transportation in American Samoa by making air service between 
its islands more reliable and predictable.
  Specifically, the bill streamlines a burdensome Federal regulatory 
process that artificially inhibits economic growth and jobs on the 
islands. The Senate unanimously passed similar legislation in the last 
Congress, and I am hopeful they will join with us this year in 
addressing this issue.
  I want to thank the sponsor of the bill, the gentlewoman from 
American Samoa (Mrs. Radewagen), for her tireless efforts on behalf of 
her constituents and for working with us to bring a bill that benefits 
so many of them to the floor.
  I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 276.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 276, as amended, introduced by the 
gentlewoman from American Samoa (Mrs. Radewagen), which will ensure 
reliable air service into American Samoa.
  American Samoa is situated in the center of the South Pacific, about 
2,500 miles south of Hawaii. Its nearest neighboring islands are at 
least 500 miles away, and the territory is more than 7,000 miles from 
where we stand today.
  This remote location already makes export and travel difficult and 
costly. Complicating matters more is the fact that the current cabotage 
laws prohibit foreign air carriers from carrying passengers between the 
islands, except in certain emergency situations.
  The Department of Transportation has authority to issue waivers in 
such emergency cases, but the waivers are good for only 30 days. A 
foreign airline that is otherwise fit to provide service between 
American Samoa's islands is, therefore, forced to apply monthly for a 
waiver.
  H.R. 276 would remove this burden by permitting DOT to grant the 
cabotage waiver for up to 6 months. This change ensures that domestic 
air transportation is provided and sustained between the islands, 
benefitting both the people and the economy.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. LoBIONDO: Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to 
the gentlewoman from American Samoa (Mrs. Radewagen).
  Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Mr. Speaker, first, I would like to thank Chairman 
Shuster, Subcommittee Chairman LoBiondo, Ranking Members DeFazio and 
Larsen, and their staff for the effort and work they put in to quickly 
see this measure through this committee. They do an excellent job, and 
it is always encouraging to work with such bright people. I also want 
to thank Leader McCarthy and his staff for their assistance in getting 
this measure to the floor. I look forward to working under their 
leadership to bring prosperity to the American people, including those 
in the territories.
  Mr. Speaker, the people of American Samoa desperately need 
improvement to their access to reliable transportation between the 
islands of Tutuila and Manu'a. The remote Manu'a islands are losing 
residents at an alarming pace, mostly due to the lack of reliable 
transportation; and it is causing a great hardship on the families and 
businesses who reside on these islands which lie 60 miles from the main 
island of Tutuila.
  Also, the lack of reliable transportation poses a severe health risk 
to those who need emergency medical care, as the only hospital in 
American Samoa is in Tutuila.
  My bill, H.R. 276, will help alleviate this issue by easing some of 
the burdensome red tape causing the issue, and I look forward to seeing 
it signed into law by the President.
  Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from the Northern Mariana Islands (Mr. 
Sablan).
  Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 276, a bill 
to provide more reliable air service to the people of American Samoa 
for air travel within American Samoa.
  The Northern Mariana Islands are similar to American Samoa in many 
ways. Although the large majority of our population resides on Saipan, 
I have also several thousand constituents residing on the islands 
Tinian and Rota. We are fortunate that air travel between these islands 
is possible with the presence of commercial air travel.
  Unfortunately, in American Samoa, there are no U.S. carriers 
operating a route between Tutuila and Manu'a. So Polynesian Airlines, 
based out of Samoa, is the only carrier operating that route.
  H.R. 276, introduced by my good friend and colleague, the gentlewoman 
from American Samoa (Mrs. Radewagen), presents a commonsense approach 
to cut red tape and allow regular flights to continue between these 
islands. It would help the people of American Samoa conduct business, 
visit relatives, and access health care.
  It has my full support, and I ask the House to pass this commonsense 
legislation.
  Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my 
time.

[[Page H772]]

  

  Mr. LoBIONDO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Larsen) and the staff for their help on this.
  I urge all Members to support H.R. 276, as amended.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. LoBiondo) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 276, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.


                   Amendment Offered by Mr. LoBiondo

  Mr. LoBIONDO. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to amend the title 
of the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the amendment.
  The Clerk read as follows:

       Amend the long title by striking ``A bill''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  The amendment was agreed to.

                          ____________________



