

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2047]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 739. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     provide enhanced penalties for marketing candy-flavored 
     controlled substances to minors; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. LEE:
       S. 740. A bill to prohibit mandatory or compulsory checkoff 
     programs; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 741. A bill to prohibit certain practices relating to 
     certain commodity promotion programs, to require greater 
     transparency by those programs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Markey, Mr. Wyden, Mr. 
             King, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 742. A bill to promote competition, to preserve the 
     ability of local governments to provide broadband capability 
     and services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 743. A bill to strengthen the United States Interagency 
     Council on Homelessness; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 744. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     delay the inclusion in consumer credit reports and to 
     establish requirements for debt collectors with respect to 
     medical debt information of veterans due to inappropriate or 
     delayed billing payments or reimbursements from the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 745. A bill to reauthorize the State Criminal Alien 
     Assistance Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CASEY:
       S. 746. A bill to amend the Solid Waste Disposal Act to 
     authorize States to restrict interstate waste imports and 
     impose a higher fee on out-of-State waste; to the Committee 
     on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. UDALL:
       S. 747. A bill to reauthorize the special diabetes programs 
     for Indians; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Booker, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 748. A bill to protect United States citizens and 
     residents from unlawful profiling, arrest, and detention, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ENZI:
       S. 749. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     require the disclosure of the annual percentage rates 
     applicable to Federal student loans; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Warren, 
             Mr. Schatz, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Menendez, and Mrs. 
             Gillibrand):
       S. 750. A bill to prohibit drilling in the outer 
     Continental Shelf, to prohibit coal leases on Federal land, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Portman, Mr. King, and 
             Mr. Kaine):
       S. 751. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     establish, fund, and provide for the use of amounts in a 
     National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address the 
     maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Sanders, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 752. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to clarify that products derived from tar sands are crude oil 
     for purposes of the Federal excise tax on petroleum, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MARKEY:
       S. 753. A bill to ensure that oil transported through the 
     Keystone XL pipeline into the United States is used to reduce 
     United States dependence on Middle Eastern oil; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Wicker, and Mrs. 
             Murray):
       S. 754. A bill to support meeting our Nation's growing 
     cybersecurity workforce needs by expanding the cybersecurity 
     education pipeline; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.

                          ____________________



