

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H57-H58]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HONORING THE LIFE OF LANDON WEAVER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes thegentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr.Speaker, I rise today with a heavy 
heart to mourn the loss of Pennsylvania State Trooper Landon Weaver, 
who was killed in theline of duty on Friday, December 30.
  Trooper Weaver had been on patrol for 1 year with the Pennsylvania 
State Police. He wasinvestigating a domestic incident in Juniata 
Township, Huntingdon County, in Pennsylvania's Fifth District, when the 
situationturned deadly and he was fatally shot by the suspect. Flags 
throughout Pennsylvania are flying at half-staff in honor of 
TrooperWeaver being taken from us too soon.
  I rise today to speak about who Trooper Landon Weaver was: a son, a 
brother, a husband,a friend, a hero.
  Trooper Weaver's law enforcement career had just begun. He was 23 
years old, and he married his highschool sweetheart, Macy, in June. 
They graduated from Central High School in

[[Page H58]]

Martinsburg in 2012, and he went on to studycriminal justice at Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania. He was proudly on the dean's list.
  In December 2015, he enlisted tojoin the Pennsylvania State Police 
Academy in Hershey, Pennsylvania. He graduated from the State Police 
Academy in June, wasassigned to Troop G of the Pennsylvania State 
Police, and served at the Huntingdon Barracks. He loved his family, and 
he lovedbeing a police officer.
  Trooper Weaver attended Zion Lutheran Church and enjoyed spending 
time with his family, andespecially his wife, Macy. To him, family was 
everything.
  Trooper Weaver is the 97th member of the Pennsylvania State Policeto 
be killed in the line of duty.
  In addition to his wife, he is survived by his parents, Eric and 
Christine Weaver of EastFreedom; his brother, Larett Weaver of East 
Freedom; his paternal grandparents, Merrill and Christine D. Weaver; as 
well asother family members and friends. He grew up in a small town 
where there is a deep sense of community. Many hearts are brokenover 
this tragic, senseless situation.
  One of Trooper Weaver's teachers at Central High School in 
Martinsburg rememberedTrooper Weaver from his days as a student. 
Teacher Joe Logan said Trooper Weaver was a ``great kid'' whom you 
could call onduring times of need and he would be there. He said he was 
``beside himself with grief and sadness.''
  He went on to say:``He would do anything for you. He was humble, 
dedicated, and a loving person to his wife and family. You'd be proud 
to call hima colleague or friend.''
  Trooper Weaver was one of Pennsylvania's finest. He was committed to 
his family, to his profession,and to the community that he loved. His 
dedication to service embodies the values of law enforcement officers 
across the Nation.Our law enforcement officers risk their lives every 
day to help people.
  Trooper Weaver put on his uniform that day and wentto work like he 
had done so many days before, knowing that any moment he could be in 
harm's way. That is a commitment ourofficers make to serve and protect 
the public and uphold the law. That is the commitment that Trooper 
Weaver made to serve theCommonwealth of Pennsylvania.
  May we all honor Trooper Weaver's memory. He was a young man just 
starting out in life. He wasa newlywed with so much to look forward to. 
In one moment, he was gone.
  On behalf of the Congress of the United States andthe people of the 
Fifth Congressional District of Pennsylvania, I offer my sincere 
condolences and prayers to his family,especially to his wife, Macy, 
during this tragic and difficult time. He risked his life to keep all 
of us safe.
  TrooperLandon Weaver is a hero who was taken from us too soon. May we 
mourn his loss and honor his memory. May God bless Landon Weaverand his 
family.

                          ____________________



