

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2304-H2307]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 SECURING OUR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD ACT

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 1238) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to make the 
Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Health Affairs responsible 
for coordinating the efforts of the Department of Homeland Security 
related to food, agriculture, and veterinary defense against terrorism, 
and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1238

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Securing our Agriculture and 
     Food Act''.

     SEC. 2. COORDINATION OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, AND VETERINARY 
                   DEFENSE AGAINST TERRORISM.

       (a) In General.--Title V of the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 (6 U.S.C. 311 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new section:

     ``SEC. 528. COORDINATION OF DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY 
                   EFFORTS RELATED TO FOOD, AGRICULTURE, AND 
                   VETERINARY DEFENSE AGAINST TERRORISM.

       ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary, acting through the 
     Assistant Secretary for

[[Page H2305]]

     Health Affairs, shall carry out a program to coordinate the 
     Department's efforts related to defending the food, 
     agriculture, and veterinary systems of the United States 
     against terrorism and other high-consequence events that pose 
     a high risk to homeland security.
       ``(b) Program Elements.--The coordination program required 
     by subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the following:
       ``(1) Providing oversight and management of the 
     Department's responsibilities pursuant to Homeland Security 
     Presidential Directive 9-Defense of United States Agriculture 
     and Food.
       ``(2) Providing oversight and integration of the 
     Department's activities related to veterinary public health, 
     food defense, and agricultural security.
       ``(3) Leading the Department's policy initiatives relating 
     to food, animal, and agricultural incidents, and the impact 
     of such incidents on animal and public health.
       ``(4) Leading the Department's policy initiatives relating 
     to overall domestic preparedness for and collective response 
     to agricultural terrorism.
       ``(5) Coordinating with other Department components, 
     including U.S. Customs and Border Protection, as appropriate, 
     on activities related to food and agriculture security and 
     screening procedures for domestic and imported products.
       ``(6) Coordinating with appropriate Federal departments and 
     agencies.
       ``(7) Other activities as determined necessary by the 
     Secretary.
       ``(c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
     construed as altering or superseding the authority of the 
     Secretary of Agriculture relating to food and agriculture.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 
     1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 527 the 
     following new item:

``Sec. 528. Coordination of Department of Homeland Security efforts 
              related to food, agriculture, and veterinary defense 
              against terrorism.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Donovan) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Correa) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New York.


                             General Leave

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise today in support of H.R. 1238, the Securing our Agriculture 
and Food Act, introduced by Congressman David Young of Iowa. This bill 
seeks to authorize the Department of Homeland Security's food, 
agriculture, and veterinary defense program within the Office of Health 
Affairs.
  Last year, the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and 
Communications held a hearing to examine the potential devastating 
impacts of an intentional attack on, or a natural disruption of, U.S. 
agricultural or food production systems.
  The food and agriculture sector is critically important to our 
Nation's economy. U.S. food and agriculture accounts for roughly one-
fifth of the Nation's economic activity, and contributed $835 billion 
to the U.S. gross domestic product in 2014, and is responsible for 1 
out of every 12 U.S. jobs.
  Coming from Iowa and as a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee 
on Agriculture, Congressman Young of Iowa knows all too well the 
importance of protecting this sector, which is vital to the economy and 
our way of life. I appreciate him introducing this bill of which I am 
pleased to be an original cosponsor.
  I thank Chairman Walden of the Energy and Commerce Committee and 
Chairman Conaway of the Agriculture Committee for working with us to 
advance this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, we also look forward to working with our Senate 
colleagues, who recently approved companion legislation without 
amendment in the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
Committee.
  This bipartisan legislation passed the House last September by voice 
vote, and I urge all Members to join me once again in supporting this 
bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                                         House of Representatives,


                             Committee on Energy and Commerce,

                                   Washington, DC, March 16, 2017.
     Hon. Michael T. McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman McCaul: I write in regard to H.R. 1238, 
     Securing our Agriculture and Food Act, which was referred in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce. I wanted to 
     notify you that the Committee will forgo action on the bill 
     so that it may proceed expeditiously to the House floor for 
     consideration.
       The Committee on Energy and Commerce takes this action with 
     our mutual understanding that by foregoing consideration of 
     H.R. 1238, the Committee does not waive any jurisdiction over 
     the subject matter contained in this or similar legislation 
     and will be appropriately consulted and involved as this or 
     similar legislation moves forward to address any remaining 
     issues within the Committee's jurisdiction. The Committee 
     also reserves the right to seek appointment of an appropriate 
     number of conferees to any House-Senate conference involving 
     this or similar legislation and asks that you support any 
     such request.
       I would appreciate your response confirming this 
     understanding with respect to H.R. 1238 and ask that a copy 
     of our exchange of letters on this matter be included in your 
     committee's report on the legislation or the Congressional 
     Record during its consideration on the House floor.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Greg Walden,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Homeland Security,

                                   Washington, DC, March 16, 2017.
     Hon. Greg Walden,
     Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Walden: Thank you for your letter regarding 
     H.R. 1238, the ``Securing our Agriculture and Food Act.'' I 
     appreciate your support in bringing this legislation before 
     the House of Representatives, and accordingly, understand 
     that the Committee on Energy and Commerce will forego 
     consideration of the bill.
       The Committee on Homeland Security concurs with the mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration on this bill at 
     this time, the Committee on Energy and Commerce does not 
     waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained in 
     this bill or similar legislation in the future. In addition, 
     should a conference on this bill be necessary, I would 
     support a request by the Committee on Energy and Commerce for 
     conferees on those provisions within your jurisdiction.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the report or in 
     the Congressional Record during consideration of this bill on 
     the House floor. I thank you for your cooperation in this 
     matter.
           Sincerely,
     Michael T. McCaul.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                     Committee on Agriculture,

                                   Washington, DC, March 10, 2017.
     Hon. Michael McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman McCaul: Thank you for the opportunity to 
     review H.R. 1238, ``Securing our Agriculture and Food Act.'' 
     As you are aware, the bill was primarily referred to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, while the Agriculture 
     Committee received an additional referral.
       I recognize and appreciate your desire to bring this 
     legislation before the House in an expeditious manner and, 
     accordingly, I agree to discharge H.R. 1238 from further 
     consideration by the Committee on Agriculture. I do so with 
     the understanding that by discharging the bill, the Committee 
     on Agriculture does not waive any future jurisdictional claim 
     on this or similar matters. Further, the Committee on 
     Agriculture reserves the right to seek the appointment of 
     conferees, if it should become necessary.
       I ask that you insert a copy of our exchange of letters 
     into the Congressional Record during consideration of this 
     measure on the House floor.
       Thank you for your courtesy in this matter and I look 
     forward to continued cooperation between our respective 
     committees.
           Sincerely,
                                               K. Michael Conaway,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Homeland Security,

                                   Washington, DC, March 10, 2017.
     Hon. K. Michael Conaway,
     Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Conaway: Thank you for your letter regarding 
     H.R. 1238, the ``Securing our Agriculture and Food Act.'' I 
     appreciate your support in bringing this legislation before 
     the House of Representatives, and accordingly, understand 
     that the Committee on Agriculture will forego consideration 
     of the bill.
       The Committee on Homeland Security concurs with the mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration on this bill at 
     this time, the Committee on Agriculture does not

[[Page H2306]]

     waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained in 
     this bill or similar legislation in the future. In addition, 
     should a conference on this bill be necessary, I would 
     support a request by the Committee on Agriculture for 
     conferees on those provisions within your jurisdiction.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during consideration of this bill on the House floor. 
     I thank you for your cooperation in this matter.
           Sincerely,
                                                Michael T. McCaul.

  Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 1238, the Securing our Agriculture and Food 
Act.
  Mr. Speaker, U.S. agriculture and agriculture-related business 
represents about 6 percent of our gross domestic product as of 2014. 
Protecting this industry, which contributes $985 billion to our 
economy, from international and naturally occurring biological events 
is critical not only to the stability of our national economy, but also 
to the security of our national food supply and our human health.
  This bill would clarify the responsibilities of the Department of 
Homeland Security's Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs as they 
relate to the DHS' responsibilities under the Homeland Security 
Presidential Directive 9, entitled: ``The Defense of U.S. Agriculture 
and Food.''
  The bill includes language offered by Representative Donald Payne, 
Jr., my colleague on the committee, directing the Assistant Secretary 
for Health Affairs to coordinate with all departmental components with 
responsibilities related to food and agriculture security and screening 
procedures. Such coordination will include Customs and Border 
Protection, which has historically struggled to maintain agriculture 
inspection staffing levels at ports of entry.
  Mr. Speaker, agriculture and agriculture-related businesses 
constitute a major portion of California's economy. Agriculture plays 
an integral role in industries ranging from transportation and 
warehousing to finance and insurance, to accommodation and food 
services.

                              {time}  1245

  The cascading effects of national and international outbreaks 
compromise agriculture, food, and could have devastating effects on the 
State's economy.
  I encourage my colleagues to support this bill to ensure the 
integrity of our agriculture industry and food supply.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield as much time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Young).
  Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the chairman of the 
subcommittee for shepherding this through the committee as well as 
being a cosponsor. I appreciate that.
  Mr. Speaker, in 2015, our Nation experienced the worst animal disease 
outbreak in our history, as highly pathogenic avian influenza wreaked 
havoc on turkey farmers and egg producers in the Midwest.
  This naturally occurring outbreak revealed significant 
vulnerabilities and coordination challenges between Federal, State, and 
local stakeholders in responding quickly to prevent the spread of avian 
influenza.
  It also demonstrated the importance of having mitigation and response 
strategies and processes in place to ensure any naturally occurring 
outbreak or coordinated attack against our Nation's agricultural sector 
can be prevented quickly and be contained.
  Maintaining the integrity of our agricultural and food supply system 
is imperative. The folks I talked to have great concerns about the 
safety and security of our homeland and our people, and their concerns 
are warranted.
  The reality of living in this day and age is that it is just not the 
big cities that have to be prepared for a terror attack. All 
counterterrorism measures must reflect a universal understanding of 
potential vulnerabilities, which includes our agriculture and rural 
communities.
  Farming and agriculture are not only the backbone of the Iowa 
economy, but of the entire Nation. Any attack on our food supply could 
have devastating consequences on our economy and our communities. It is 
essential that we take the proper steps against potential threats.
  Now, the reality is agroterrorism and other high-risk events pose 
serious threats to our food, agriculture, and livestock industries 
across the United States. For that reason, I introduced, in a 
bipartisan fashion, the Securing Our Agriculture and Food Act together 
with Congressman Dan Donovan and Congressman Donald Payne, Jr., the 
chairman and ranking member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on 
Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications, to ensure our 
Nation has a plan and strategy to prepare for and respond to any high-
risk event threatening our agricultural sector, our food supply, and, 
ultimately, our people.
  The Securing Our Agriculture and Food Act requires the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, through the Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs, 
to lead the government's efforts to secure our Nation's food, 
agriculture, and our veterinary systems against terrorism and high-risk 
events.
  This bipartisan bill also authorizes the Secretary to collaborate 
with other agencies to ensure food, agriculture, and animal and human 
health sectors receive the attention and are integrated into the DHS' 
domestic preparedness policy initiatives.
  I appreciate the support of Subcommittee Chairman Donovan--thank 
you--and Ranking Member Payne as we work to better secure our 
agriculture and food sectors. I thank you both for elevating the 
importance of this issue.
  I also want to thank the chairman and ranking members of the full 
committee and all their staff for their assistance in bringing this 
bill to the floor today in the House.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this bill.
  Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, Securing Our Agriculture and Food Act passed the House 
in September of 2016, and the Senate companion bill was reported out of 
committee last week.
  Passage of this measure will send a strong message about our 
commitment to protecting our Nation's food and agricultural sectors. As 
such, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1238.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume, and I once again urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1238.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1238, 
``Securing Our Agriculture and Food Act.''
  This bipartisan bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to make 
the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Health Affairs 
responsible for coordinating the efforts for the DHS related to food, 
agriculture, and veterinary defense against terrorism.
  The coordination program under the measure would include:
  1. Overseeing and managing DHS's responsibilities under the 
presidential directive;
  2. Integrating activities related to veterinary public health, food 
and agriculture security;
  3. Leading the department's policy initiatives relating to food, 
animal, and agriculture incidents, as well as domestic preparedness for 
and collective response to agricultural terrorism; and
  4. Coordinating with other parts of the federal government.
  Agro-terrorism is defined as the deliberate introduction of an animal 
or plant disease for the purpose of generating fear, causing economic 
losses, or undermining social stability.
  Killing livestock and plants or contaminating food can help 
terrorists cause economic crises in the agriculture and food 
industries.
  Agriculture comprises the largest single sector in U.S. economy, 
making agro-terrorism an attractive opportunity for many terrorist 
organizations.
  Attacks directed against the cattle, pork, or poultry industries or 
via the food chain pose the most serious danger for latent, ongoing 
effects and general socioeconomic and political disruption.
  Food availability becomes a matter of immediate life and death in 
such circumstances, and significant national and global resources need 
to be dedicated to emergency relief efforts.
  Any attacks of agro-terrorism would be particularly devastating for 
the citizens of Texas.
  In Texas, the largest source of agricultural revenue comes from the 
sale of beef cattle.
  Texas produces roughly 20 percent of the nation's cattle and ranks 
first in the country in the value of cattle raised.
  It is crucial that we have preparedness policies in place to quickly 
respond to events

[[Page H2307]]

threatening U.S. agriculture or food production systems.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 1238.
  Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I stand in strong support to 
H.R. 1238, the Securing Our Agriculture and Food Act of 2017.
  Our nation's agricultural sector comprises a substantial portion of 
our economy. In my home state of Georgia, eggs, beef, poultry, peanuts, 
onions, and many other agricultural commodities allow for agriculture 
to be an almost $14 billion industry. Furthermore, the food and fiber 
industry directly and indirectly results in a total economic impact of 
tens of billions of dollars annually and the creation of hundreds of 
thousands of jobs in Georgia. Moreover, agricultural industries serve 
as a vital backbone to the nutrition and nourishment of both America's 
citizens and consumers abroad.
  Naturally, an industry as critical to the United States' stability as 
the country's food production must not be compromised by threats of 
sabotage or acts of terrorism.
  Passing this bill will amend portions of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (HSA) to allow the Department of Homeland Security to better 
protect America's agricultural sector. The reorganization of DHS 
resources outlined in this bill ensure that proper oversight and 
management of our nation's agriculture necessary to prevent a 
devastating attack on our agricultural sector.
  The level of bipartisan cooperation and support for the Securing our 
Agricultural and Food Act reflects the importance of this bill to 
security and economic interests of American's citizens. The security of 
our nation's food supplies is not an issue defined by political party, 
nor is the concern only relevant to rural populations. All American's 
will suffer if we are unable to ensure the safety of the country's 
agricultural sector.
  This bill provides security to a fundamental and often. overlooked 
area of our economy and existence. We as lawmakers must ensure the 
preparedness of our Federal government to react to events of ecological 
sabotage and terrorism.
  I strongly urge my colleagues to vote YES on the resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Donovan) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1238.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



