

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1006-H1010]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


    Rules of the Committee on Small Business for the 115th Congress

                                      Committee on Small Business,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                 Washington, DC, February 1, 2017.
     Hon. Paul D. Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Speaker Ryan: Enclosed herewith are the Rules and 
     Procedures for the 115th Congress that were adopted by the 
     Committee on Small Business at its organizational meeting on 
     February 1, 2017.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Steve Chabot,
                                                         Chairman.


                         1. GENERAL PROVISIONS

       (A) Rules of the Committee. The Rules of the House of 
     Representatives, in total (but especially with respect to the 
     operations of committee., Rule X, cl. 1(q), cl. 2, cl. 3(1) 
     and Rule XI), are the rules of the Committee on Small 
     Business (``Committee'') to the extent applicable and are 
     incorporated by reference.
       (B) Appointments by the Chair. Pursuant to the Rules of the 
     House, the Chair shall designate a Member of the Committee 
     Majority to serve as Vice Chair of the Committee. The Vice 
     Chair shall preside at any meeting or hearing during the 
     temporary absence of the Chair. The Chair also reserves the 
     right to designate a Member of the Committee Majority to 
     serve as the Chair at a hearing or meeting.


                   2. REFERRAL OF BILLS BY THE CHAIR

       The Chair will retain consideration of all legislation 
     referred to the Committee by the Speaker. No action will be 
     required of a Subcommittee before legislation is considered 
     for report by the Committee. Subcommittee chairs, pursuant to 
     the rules set out herein,

[[Page H1007]]

     may hold hearings on any bill referred to the Committee.


                            3. SUBCOMMITTEES

       (A) Generally. Each Subcommittee of the Committee is part 
     of the Committee and is subject to the authority and 
     direction of the Committee, and to the Rules of the House and 
     the rules adopted herein, to the extent applicable. The 
     Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee are ex officio 
     Members of all Subcommittees for the purpose of any meeting 
     conducted by a Subcommittee.
       (B) The Committee shall be organized into the following 
     five subcommittees:
       (1) Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
       This Subcommittee (which will consist of six (6) Republican 
     Members and four (4) Democratic Members) will address 
     policies that enhance rural economic growth, increasing 
     America's energy independence and ensuring that America's 
     small businesses can compete effectively in a global 
     marketplace.
       Oversight of agricultural policies.
       Oversight of environmental issues and regulations 
     (including agencies such as the Environmental Protection 
     Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers).
       Oversight of energy issues, including expansion of domestic 
     resources, whether they are renewable or non-renewable.
       Oversight of international trade policy with particular 
     emphasis on agencies that provide direct assistance to small 
     businesses, such as: the Small Business Administration's 
     (SBA) Office of International Trade, the Department of 
     Commerce's United States Export Assistance Centers, the 
     Department of Agriculture's Foreign Agricultural Service, and 
     the Export-Import Bank.
       Oversight of infringement of intellectual property rights 
     by foreign competition.
       (2) Subcommittee on Health and Technology.
       This Subcommittee (which will consist of six (6) Republican 
     Members and four (4) Democratic Members) will address how 
     health care policies may inhibit or promote economic growth 
     and job creation by small businesses. In addition, the 
     Subcommittee will examine small business job growth through 
     the creation and adoption of advanced technologies.
       Oversight of the implementation of the Patient Protection 
     and Affordable Care Act.
       Oversight of availability and affordability of health care 
     coverage for small businesses.
       Oversight of general technology issues, including 
     intellectual property policy in the United States.
       Oversight of United States telecommunications policies 
     including, but not limited to, the National Broadband Plan 
     and allocation of electromagnetic spectrum.
       Oversight of the Small Business Innovation Research 
     Program.
       Oversight of the Small Business Technology Transfer 
     Program.
       (3) Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Tax, and Capital 
     Access.
       This Subcommittee (which will consist of six (6) Republican 
     Members and four (4) Democratic Members) will evaluate the 
     operation of the financial markets in the United States and 
     their ability to provide needed capital to small businesses. 
     In addition, the Subcommittee will review federal programs, 
     especially those overseen by the SBA, aimed at assisting 
     entrepreneurs in obtaining needed capital. Since the tax 
     policy plays an integral role in access to capital, this 
     Committee also will examine the impact of federal tax 
     policies on small businesses.
       Oversight of capital access and financial markets.
       Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
     Consumer Protection Act.
       SBA financial assistance programs, including guaranteed 
     loans, microloans, certified development company loans, and 
     small business investment companies.
       Oversight of the Department of Agriculture business and 
     industry guaranteed loan program.
       Oversight of general tax policy affecting small businesses.
       The management of the SBA disaster loan program.
       (4) Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight, and 
     Regulations.
       This Subcommittee (which will consist of six (6) Republican 
     Members and four (4) Democratic Members) will probe the 
     efficient operation of government programs that affect small 
     businesses, including the SBA, and develop proposals to make 
     them operate in a more cost-effective manner. This 
     Subcommittee also will review the regulatory burdens imposed 
     on small businesses and how those burdens may be alleviated.
       Oversight of general issues affecting small businesses and 
     federal agencies.
       Oversight of the management of the SBA.
       Oversight of the SBA Inspector General.
       Implementation of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
       Oversight of the Office of Information and Regulatory 
     Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget.
       Use of the Congressional Review Act.
       Transparency of the federal rulemaking process as required 
     by the Administrative Procedure and Data Quality Acts.
       Implementation of the Paperwork Reduction Act.
       (5) Subcommittee on Contracting and Workforce.
       This Subcommittee (which will consist of six (6) Republican 
     Members and four (4) Democratic Members) will assess the 
     federal procurement system, including those programs designed 
     specifically to enhance participation by small businesses in 
     providing goods and services to the federal government. The 
     Subcommittee will examine various programs designed to 
     provide technical assistance to small businesses, whether 
     specifically aimed at federal contractors or small businesses 
     in general. Finally, the Subcommittee will review the broad 
     scope of workforce issues that affect the ability of small 
     businesses to obtain and maintain qualified employees.
       Oversight of government-wide procurement practices and 
     programs affecting small businesses.
       Oversight of federal procurement policies that inhibit or 
     expand participation by small businesses in the federal 
     contracting marketplace.
       All contracting programs established by the Small Business 
     Act, including HUBZone, 8(a), Women-, and Service Disabled 
     Veteran-Owned Small Business Programs.
       Technical assistance provided to federal contractors and 
     perspective contractors through SBA personnel, Offices of 
     Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, and Procurement 
     Technical Assistance Centers.
       The SBA Surety Bond guarantee program.
       Oversight of all federal policies that affect the workforce 
     including, but not limited to, the roles of the Department of 
     Labor and the National Labor Relations Board.
       SBA entrepreneurial development and technical assistance 
     programs unrelated to participation in the federal government 
     contracting.
       (C) Powers and Duties of Subcommittees. Each Subcommittee 
     is authorized to meet, hold hearings, receive evidence, and 
     report to the Committee on any matters referred to it. Prior 
     to the scheduling of any meeting or hearing of a 
     Subcommittee, the Chair of the Subcommittee shall obtain the 
     approval of the Chair of the Committee.
       (D) Hearing Time and Date. No hearing or meeting of a 
     Subcommittee shall take place at the same time as the meeting 
     or hearing of the full Committee or another Subcommitte, 
     provided however, that the Subcommittee Chairs may hold field 
     hearings that conflict with those held by other Subcommittees 
     of the Committee.


                           4. COMMITTEE STAFF

       (A) Majority Staff. The employees of the Committee, except 
     those assigned to the Minority as provided below, shall be 
     appointed and assigned, and may be removed by the Chair of 
     the Committee. The Chair shall fix their remuneration and 
     they shall be under the general supervision and direction of 
     the Chair.
       (B) Minority Staff. The employees of the Committee assigned 
     to the Minority shall be appointed and assigned, and their 
     remuneration determined, as the Ranking Minority Member of 
     the Committee shall decide.
       (C) Subcommittee Staff. There shall be no separate staff 
     assigned to Subcommittees. The Chair and Ranking Minority 
     Member shall endeavor to ensure that sufficient Committee 
     staff is made available in order that each Subcommittee may 
     carry out the responsibilities set forth in Rule 3, supra.


                              5. MEETINGS

       (A) Regular Meeting Day. The regular meeting day of the 
     Committee shall be the second Wednesday of every month when 
     the House is in session. The Chair may dispense with the 
     meeting of the Committee, if in the sole discretion of the 
     Chair, there is no need for such meeting.
       (B) Additional Meetings. Additional meetings may be called 
     as deemed necessary by the Chair or at the request of the 
     majority Members of the Committee pursuant to Rule XI, cl. 
     2(c) of the rules of the House. At least 3 days' notice of 
     such an additional meeting shall be given unless the Chair, 
     with the concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member, 
     determines that there is good cause to call the meeting on 
     less notice or upon a vote by a majority of the Committee (a 
     quorum being present). To the extent possible, the three days 
     shall be counted from the 72 hours before the time of the 
     meeting. Announcements of the meeting shall be published 
     promptly in the Daily Digest and made publicly available in 
     electronic form.
       (C) Business to be Considered. The determination of the 
     business to be considered at each meeting shall be made by 
     the Chair subject to limitations set forth in House Rule XI, 
     cl. 2(c).
       (D) Meeting Materials. The Chair shall provide to each 
     Member of the Committee, to the extent practicable, at least 
     48 hours in advance of a meeting, a copy of the bill, 
     resolution, report or other item to be considered at the 
     meeting, but no later than 24 hours before the meeting. Such 
     material also shall be made available to the public at least 
     24 hours in advance in electronic form.
       (E) Special and Emergency Meetings. The rules for notice 
     and meetings as set forth in Rule 5 of these Rules shall not 
     apply to special and emergency meetings. Clause 2(c)(2) of 
     Rule XI and clause 2(g)(3)(A) of Rule XI of the Rules of the 
     House, as applicable, shall apply to such meetings.


                 6. NOTICE AND ANNOUNCEMENT OF HEARINGS

       (A) Announcement of Hearings. Public announcement of the 
     date, place and subject matter of any hearing to be conducted 
     by the Committee shall be made no later than 7 calendar days 
     before the commencement of the hearing. To the extent 
     possible, the seven days shall be counted from 168 hours 
     before the time of the Committee's hearing.
       (B) Exception. The Chair, with the concurrence of the 
     Ranking Minority Member, or

[[Page H1008]]

     upon a vote by the majority of the Committee (a quorum being 
     present), may authorize a hearing to commence on less than 7 
     days' notice.
       (C) Witness Lists. Unless the Chair determines it is 
     impracticable to do so, the Committee shall make a tentative 
     witness list available at the time it makes the public 
     announcement of the hearing. If a tentative witness list is 
     not made available at the time of the announcement of the 
     hearing, such witness list shall be made available as soon as 
     practicable after such announcement is made. A final witness 
     list shall be issued by the Committee no later than 48 hours 
     prior to the commencement of the hearing.
       (D) Hearing Material. The Chair shall provide to all 
     Members of the Committee, as soon as practicable after the 
     announcement of the hearing, a memorandum explaining the 
     subject matter of the hearing and any official reports from 
     departments and agencies on the subject matter of the 
     hearing. Such material shall be made available to all Members 
     of the Committee no later than 48 hours before the 
     commencement of the hearing, unless the Chair, after 
     consultation with the Ranking Minority Member, determines 
     that certain reports from departments or agencies should not 
     be made available prior to the commencement of the hearing. 
     Material provided by the Chair to all Members, whether 
     provided prior to or at the hearing, shall be placed on the 
     Committee website no later than 48 hours after the 
     commencement of the hearing, unless such material contains 
     sensitive or classified information, in which case such 
     material shall be handled pursuant to Rule 16 of the 
     Committee's Rules.


              7. MEETINGS AND HEARINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC

       (A) Meetings. Each meeting of the Committee or its 
     Subcommittees for the transaction of business, including the 
     markup of legislation, shall be open to the public, including 
     to radio, television, and still photography coverage, except 
     as provided by House Rule XI, cl. 4. If the majority of 
     Members of the Committee or Subcommittee present at the 
     meeting determine by a recorded vote in open session that all 
     or part of the remainder of the meeting on that day shall be 
     closed to the public because the disclosure of matters to be 
     considered would endanger national security, would compromise 
     sensitive law enforcement information, or would tend to 
     defame, degrade, or incriminate any person or otherwise would 
     violate any law or rule of the House; provided however, that 
     no person other than Members of the Committee, and such 
     congressional staff and such executive branch representatives 
     they may authorize, shall be present in any meeting which has 
     been closed to the public.
       (B) Hearings. Each hearing conducted by the Committee or 
     its Subcommittees shall be open to the public, including 
     radio, television and still photography coverage. If the 
     majority of Members of the Committee or Subcommittee present 
     at the hearing determine by a recorded vote in open session 
     that all or part of the remainder of the hearing on that day 
     shall be closed to the public because the disclosure of 
     matters to be considered would endanger national security, 
     would compromise sensitive law enforcement information, or 
     would tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person or 
     otherwise would violate any law or rule of the House; 
     provided however, that the Committee or Subcommittee may by 
     the same procedure also vote to close one subsequent day of 
     hearings. Notwithstanding the requirements of the preceding 
     sentence, a majority of those present (if the requisite 
     number of Members are present under Committee rules for the 
     purpose of taking testimony) may vote: (i) to close the 
     hearing for the sole purpose of discussing whether the 
     testimony or evidence to be received would endanger the 
     national security, would compromise sensitive law enforcement 
     information, or violate Rule XI, cl. 2(k)(5) of the House or 
     (ii) to close the hearing, as provided clause 2(k)(5) of Rule 
     XI of the House.
       (C) Participation in Subcommittee Hearings. The Chair and 
     Ranking Minority Member are ex officio Members of all 
     Subcommittees for any hearing conducted by a Subcommittee. 
     Members of the Committee who wish to participate in a hearing 
     of the Subcommittee to which they are not Members shall make 
     such request to the Chair and the Ranking Minority Member of 
     the Subcommittee at the commencement of the hearing. The 
     Chair, after consultation with the Ranking Minority Member of 
     the Subcommittee, shall grant such request.
       (D) Non-Participatory Attendance by Other Members of the 
     House. No Member of the House may be excluded from non-
     participatory attendance at any hearing of the Committee or 
     any Subcommittee, unless the House of Representatives shall 
     by majority vote authorize the Committee or Subcommittees, 
     for purposes of a particular subject of investigation, to 
     close its hearing to Members by the same procedures 
     designated to close hearings to the public.
       (E) Procedure to Participate. Members of Congress who are 
     not Members of the Committee but would like to participate in 
     a hearing shall notify the Chair and the Ranking Minority 
     Member and submit a formal request no later than 24 hours 
     before the commencement of the meeting or hearing.
       (F) Audio and Video Coverage. To the maximum extent 
     practicable, the Committee shall provide audio and video 
     coverage of each hearing or meeting for the transaction of 
     business in a manner that allows the public to easily listen 
     and view the proceedings and shall maintain the recordings of 
     such coverage in a manner easily accessible to the public.


                              8. WITNESSES

       (A) Number of Witnesses. For any hearing conducted by the 
     Committee or Subcommittee there shall be no more than four 
     non-governmental witnesses of which the Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee or Subcommittee (as appropriate) is 
     entitled to select one witness for the hearing.
       (B) Witnesses Selected by the Minority. Witnesses selected 
     by the Ranking Minority Member of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee shall be invited to testify by the Chair of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee (as appropriate). Rule 8(D) shall 
     apply with equal force to witnesses selected by the Ranking 
     Minority Member of the Committee or Subcommittee.
       (C) Small Business Week Exception. The limitations set 
     forth in the preceding paragraph shall not apply if the 
     Committee holds a hearing to honor the work of the small 
     business community in conjunction with the annual celebration 
     of Small Business Week. Witness limitations for such a 
     hearing shall be determined by the Chair in consultation with 
     the Ranking Minority Member.
       (D) Statement of Witnesses.
       (1) Each witness who is to appear before the Committee or 
     Subcommittee shall file an electronic copy of the testimony 
     with the Committee and the Ranking Minority Member no later 
     than 48 hours before the commencement of the hearing. In 
     addition, the witness shall provide 25 copies of the 
     testimony by the commencement of the hearing. The Chair may 
     waive the requirement by the witness providing 25 copies in 
     which case the Committee or Subcommittee shall provide the 25 
     copies.
       (2) Each non-governmental witness shall provide to the 
     Committee and the Ranking Minority Member, no later than 48 
     hours before the commencement of the hearing, a curriculum 
     vitae or other statement describing their education, 
     employment, professional affiliation or other background 
     information pertinent to their testimony.
       (E) Witness Disclosure. As required by Rule XI, cl. 2(g) of 
     the Rules of the House, each nongovernmental witness before 
     the commencement of the hearing shall file with the Chair a 
     disclosure form detailing any contracts or grants that the 
     witness has with the federal government, as well as the 
     amount and country of origin of any payment or contract 
     related to the subject of the hearing originating with a 
     foreign government. In addition, each non-governmental 
     witness shall file with the Committee Chair a disclosure form 
     detailing any payments or contracts received from a foreign 
     government if such payments or contracts are related in any 
     manner to the subject matter of a hearing. Such information 
     shall be posted on the Committee website within 24 hours 
     after the witness appeared at the hearing.
       (F) Failure to Comply. The failure to provide the materials 
     set forth by the deadlines set forth in these rules may be 
     grounds for excluding both the oral and written testimony of 
     the witness unless waived by the Chair of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee.
       (G) Public Access to Witness Materials. The Committee will 
     provide public access to printed materials, including the 
     testimony of witnesses in electronic form on the Committee's 
     website no later than 24 hours after the hearing is 
     adjourned. Supplemental material provided after the hearing 
     adjourns shall be placed on the Committee website no later 
     than 24 hours after receipt of such material.
       (H) Questioning of Witnesses. Except when the Committee 
     adopts a motion pursuant to subdivisions (B) and (C) of 
     clause 2(i)(2) of Rule XI of the Rules of the House, 
     Committee Members may question witnesses only when they have 
     been recognized by the Chair for that purpose. Members shall 
     have the opportunity, as set forth in Rule XI, cl. 2 (j) of 
     the Rules of the House, to question each witness on the panel 
     for a period not to exceed five minutes. For any hearing, the 
     Chair of the Committee or Subcommittee may offer a motion to 
     extend the questioning of a witness or witnesses by the 
     Member identified in the motion for more than five minutes as 
     set forth in Rule XI, cl. 2(j)(B).
       (I) Order of Questioning. The Chair of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee shall commence questioning followed by the 
     Ranking Minority Member. Thereafter, questioning shall 
     alternate between the majority and minority Members. Before 
     the gavel has been struck, or in the case of Members arriving 
     simultaneously, the order of questioning shall be based on 
     seniority among Members of his or her own party. After the 
     gavel has been struck, Members first to arrive shall have 
     priority over Members of his or her own party.
       (J) Consideration of Ratio. In recognizing Members to 
     question witnesses, the Chair may take into consideration the 
     ratio of majority and minority Members present in such a 
     manner as to not disadvantage the Members of either party.


                               9. QUORUM

       (A) Determining a Quorum. A quorum, for purposes of 
     reporting a measure or recommendation, shall be a majority of 
     the Committee Members.
       (B) Quorum for a Hearing. For purposes of taking testimony 
     or receiving evidence, a

[[Page H1009]]

     quorum shall be one Member from the Majority and one Member 
     from the Minority. The Chair of the Committee or Subcommittee 
     shall exercise reasonable comity by waiting for the Ranking 
     Minority Member even if a quorum is present before striking 
     the gavel to commence the hearing. For hearings held by the 
     Committee or a Subcommittee in a location other than the 
     Committee's hearing room in Washington, DC, a quorum shall be 
     deemed to be present if the Chair of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee is present.


                            10. RECORD VOTES

       (A) When Provided. A record vote of the Committee shall be 
     provided on any question before the Committee upon the 
     request of any Member of the Committee. A record of the vote 
     of each Member of the Committee on a matter before the 
     Committee shall be available in electronic form within 48 
     hours of such record vote, and, with respect to any roll call 
     vote on any motion to amend or report, shall be included in 
     the report of the Committee showing the total number of votes 
     cast for and against and the names of those Members voting 
     for and against.
       (B) Public Access to Record Votes. The Chair of the 
     Committee shall, not later than 24 hours after consideration 
     of a bill, resolution, report or other item, cause the text 
     of the reported item and any amendment adopted thereto to be 
     made publicly available in electronic form.


                             11. SUBPOENAS

       (A) Authorization and Issuance. A subpoena may be 
     authorized and issued by the Committee in the conduct of any 
     investigation or series of investigations or activities to 
     require the attendance and testimony of such witness and the 
     production of such books, records, correspondence, memoranda, 
     papers and documents, as deemed necessary. Such subpoena 
     shall be authorized by a majority of the full Committee. The 
     requirement that the authorization of a subpoena requires a 
     majority vote may be waived by the Ranking Minority Member of 
     the Committee.
       (B) Issuance During Congressional Recess. The Chair may 
     issue a subpoena, in consultation with the Ranking Minority 
     Member, when the House is out for session for more than three 
     legislative days.


                      12. AMENDMENTS DURING MARKUP

       (A) Availability of Amendments. Any amendment offered to 
     any pending legislation before the Committee must be made 
     available in written form by any Member of the Committee. If 
     such amendment is not available in written form when 
     requested, the Chair shall allow an appropriate period for 
     the provision thereof and may adjourn the markup to provide 
     sufficient time for the provision of such written amendment. 
     Such period or adjournment shall not prejudice the offering 
     of such amendment.
       (B) Drafting and Filing of Amendments. For amendments to be 
     accepted during markup, there is no requirement that the 
     amendments be filed prior to commencement of the markup or 
     prepared with the assistance of the Office of Legislative 
     Counsel. Even though it is not necessary, Members seeking to 
     amend legislation during markup should draft amendments with 
     the assistance of the Office of Legislative Counsel and 
     consult with the Chair or Ranking Minority Member's staff (as 
     appropriate) in the preparation of such amendments.


                    13. POSTPONEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS

       (A) When Postponement is Permissible. The Chair, in 
     consultation with the Ranking Minority Member, may postpone 
     further proceedings when a record vote is ordered on the 
     question of approving any measure or matter or adopting an 
     amendment. The Chair may resume postponed proceedings, but no 
     later than 24 hours after such postponement, unless the House 
     is not in session or there are conflicts with Member 
     schedules that make it unlikely a quorum will be present to 
     conduct business on the postponed proceeding. In such cases, 
     the Chair will consult with Members to set a time as early as 
     possible to resume proceedings but in no event later than the 
     next meeting date as set forth in Rule 5 of these Rules.
       (B) Resumption of Proceedings. When proceedings resume on a 
     postponed question, notwithstanding any intervening order for 
     the previous question, an underlying proposition shall remain 
     subject to further debate or amendment to the same extent as 
     when the question was postponed.


                         14. COMMITTEE RECORDS

       (A) The Committee shall keep a complete record of all 
     actions, which shall include a record of the votes on any 
     question on which a recorded vote is demanded. The result of 
     any vote by the Committee, or if applicable by a 
     Subcommittee, including a voice vote shall be posted on the 
     Committee's website within 24 hours after the vote has been 
     taken. Such record shall include a description of the 
     amendment, motion, order, or other proposition, the name of 
     the Member voting for and against such amendment, motion, 
     order, or other proposition, and the names of Members present 
     but not voting. For any amendment, motion, order, or other 
     proposition decided by voice vote, the record shall include a 
     description and whether the voice vote was in favor or 
     against.
       (B) Transcripts. The Committee shall keep a complete record 
     of all Committee and Subcommittee activity which, in the case 
     of a meeting or hearing transcript, shall include a 
     substantially verbatim account of the remarks actually made 
     during the proceedings subject only to technical, 
     grammatical, and typographical corrections authorized by the 
     person making the remarks.
       (C) Availability of Records. The records of the Committee 
     at the National Archives and Records Administration shall be 
     made available in accordance with Rule VII of the Rules of 
     the House. The Chair of the Committee shall notify the 
     Ranking Member of the Committee of any decision, pursuant to 
     Rule VII, cl. 3(b)(3) or cl. 4(b), to withhold a record 
     otherwise available, and the matter shall be presented to the 
     Committee for a determination of the written request of any 
     Member of the Committee.
       (D) Publishing and Posting of Records. The Committee Rules 
     shall be made publicly available in electronic form and 
     published in the Congressional Record not later than 30 days 
     after the Chair of the Committee is elected in each odd-
     numbered year.


                         15. COMMITTEE WEBSITE

       The Chair shall maintain an official Committee website for 
     the purpose of furthering the Committee's legislative and 
     oversight responsibilities, including communicating 
     information about Committee's activities to Committee Members 
     and other Members of the House. The Ranking Minority Member 
     may maintain a similar website for the same purpose, 
     including communicating information about the activities of 
     the Minority to Committee Members and other Members of the 
     House.


           16. ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED OR SENSITIVE INFORMATION

       (A) Access to classified or sensitive information supplied 
     to the Committee or Subcommittees and attendance at closed 
     sessions of the Committee or a Subcommittee shall be limited 
     to Members and necessary Committee staff and stenographic 
     reporters who have appropriate security clearance when the 
     Chair determines that such access or attendance is essential 
     to the functioning of the Committee or one of its 
     Subcommittees.
       (B) Procedures Governing Availability. The procedures to be 
     followed in granting access to those hearings, records, data, 
     charts, and files of the Committee which involve classified 
     information or information deemed to be sensitive shall be as 
     follows:
       (I) Only Members of the House of Representatives and 
     specifically designated Committee staff of the Committee on 
     Small Business may have access to such information.
       (II) Members who desire to read materials that are in 
     possession of the Committee shall notify the Clerk of the 
     Committee in writing.
       (III) The Clerk of the Committee will maintain an accurate 
     access log, which identifies the circumstances surrounding 
     access to the information, without revealing the material 
     examined.
       (IV) If the material desired to be reviewed is material 
     which the Committee or Subcommittee deems to be sensitive 
     enough to require special handling, before receiving access 
     to such information, individuals will be required to sign an 
     access information sheet acknowledging such access and that 
     the individual has read and understands the procedures under 
     which access is being granted.
       (V) Material provided for review under this rule shall not 
     be removed from a specified room within the Committee 
     offices.
       (VI) Individuals reviewing materials under this rule shall 
     make certain that the materials are returned to the proper 
     custodian.
       (VII) No reproductions or recordings may be made of any 
     portion of such materials.
       (VIII) The contents of such information shall not be 
     divulged to any person in any way, form, shape, or manner and 
     shall not be discussed with any person who has not received 
     the information in the manner authorized by the rules of the 
     Committee.
       (IX) When not being examined in the manner described 
     herein, such information will be kept in secure safes or 
     locked file cabinets within the Committee offices.
       (X) These procedures only address access to information the 
     Committee or Subcommittee deems to be sensitive enough to 
     require special treatment.
       (XI) If a Member of the House of Representatives believes 
     that certain sensitive information should not be restricted 
     as to dissemination or use, the Member may petition the 
     Committee or Subcommittee to so rule. With respect to 
     information and materials provided to the Committee by the 
     Executive Branch or an independent agency as that term is 
     defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502, the classification of information 
     and materials as determined by the Executive Branch or 
     independent agency shall prevail unless affirmatively changed 
     by the Committee or Subcommittee involved, after consultation 
     with the Executive Branch or independent agency.
       (XII) Other materials in the possession of the Committee 
     are to be handled in accordance with normal practices and 
     traditions of the Committee.


                          17. OTHER PROCEDURES

       The Chair of the Committee may establish such other 
     procedures and take such actions as may be necessary to carry 
     out the foregoing rules or to facilitate the effective 
     operation of the Committee.


                   18. AMENDMENTS TO COMMITTEE RULES

       The rules of the Committee may be modified, amended or 
     repealed by a majority vote of the Members, at a meeting 
     specifically called for such purpose, but only if written 
     notice of the proposed change or changes has

[[Page H1010]]

     been provided to each Member of the Committee at least 72 
     hours prior to the time of the meeting of the Committee to 
     consider such change or changes.


                         19. BUDGET AND TRAVEL

       (A) Allocation of Budget. From the amount provided to the 
     Committee in the primary expense resolution adopted by the 
     House of Representatives in the 115th Congress, the Chair, 
     after consultation with the Ranking Minority Member, shall 
     designate one-third of the budget under the direction of the 
     Ranking Minority Member for the purposes of minority staff, 
     travel expenses of minority staff and Members, and minority 
     office expenses.
       (B) Authorization of Travel. The Chair may authorize travel 
     in connection with activities or subject matters under the 
     legislative or oversight jurisdiction of the Committee as set 
     forth in Rule X of the Rules of the House. The Ranking 
     Minority Member may authorize travel for any Minority Member 
     or staff of the minority in connection with activities or 
     subject matters under the Committee's jurisdiction as set 
     forth in Rule X of the Rules of the House. Before such 
     travel, there shall be submitted to the Chair of the 
     Committee in writing the following at least seven (7) 
     calendar days prior specifying: a) the purpose of the travel; 
     b) the dates during which the travel is to occur; c) the 
     names of the states or countries to be visited and the length 
     of time spent in each; and d) the names of Members and staff 
     of the Committee participating in such travel.

                          ____________________



