

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H306]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         TIME TO GET SERIOUS ABOUT A BALANCED BUDGET AMENDMENT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. McClintock) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, in the last 8 years, our Nation's debt 
has doubled. That means that the Obamaadministration has borrowed as 
much in just 8 years as our government borrowed in the 220 years 
between the first day of theGeorge Washington administration and the 
last day of the George W. Bush administration.
  Our interest costs are now eating us alive. Last year the 
Congressional Budget Office warned that within 6 years on ourcurrent 
trajectory, interest payments on the debt will exceed what we now spend 
for our entire defense budget.
  Before we can provide for the common defense and promote the general 
welfare, we have to be able to pay for it, and ourmassive debt directly 
threatens our ability to do so. History warns us that nations that 
bankrupt themselves aren't around verylong.
  I am confident that the new administration clearly understands the 
peril this poses to our country. The nomination ofMick Mulvaney to head 
the Office of Management and Budget is a powerful signal that this 
danger will soon be addressedaggressively and effectively.
  This debt is our generation's doing. It is our generation's 
responsibility to set right. When we do so, we will need toleave behind 
the mechanisms to assure that reckless borrowing never threatens our 
government again. For this reason, last week Iintroduced a proposal for 
a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, H.J. Res. 12.
  The beauty of the American Constitution is in its simplicity and its 
humility. The American Founders recognized Cicero'swisdom that the best 
laws are the simplest ones, and they humbly realized they couldn't 
possibly foresee the circumstances andconditions that might confront 
future generations. They resisted the temptation to micromanage every 
decision that might be madein the centuries to come. Instead, they set 
forth general principles of governance and erected a structure in which 
human natureitself would naturally guide future decisions to comport 
with these principles.
  In crafting a balanced budget amendment, we need to maintain these 
qualities. We should not attempt to tell futuregenerations specifically 
how they should manage their revenues and expenditures in times that we 
cannot foresee or comprehend.The experience of many States that operate 
under their own balanced budget amendments tells us that the more 
complicated andconvoluted such strictures become, the more they are 
circumvented and manipulated.
  In 1798, Thomas Jefferson wrote this observation to John Taylor: ``I 
wish it were possible to obtain a single amendment toour Constitution. 
I would be willing to depend on that alone for the reduction of the 
administration of our government to thegenuine principles of its 
Constitution; I mean an additional article taking from the federal 
government the power ofborrowing.''
  What is a balanced budget? It is simply a budget that doesn't require 
us to borrow. So why don't we just say so, asJefferson did?
  Instead of trying to define fiscal years, outlays, expenditures, 
revenues, emergencies, contingencies, triggers,sequestrations, and on 
and on, I would hope we would consider 27 simple words: ``The United 
States Government may not increaseits debt except for a specific 
purpose by law adopted by three-fourths of the membership of both 
Houses of Congress.'' That isit.

                              {time}  1030

  Such an amendment, taking effect 10 years from ratification, would 
give the government time to put its affairs in order andthereafter, 
naturally, require future Congresses to maintain both a balanced budget 
and a prudent reserve to accommodatefluctuations of revenues and 
routine contingencies.
  It trusts that three-fourths of Congress will be able to recognize a 
genuine emergency when it sees one and that one-fourthof Congress will 
be strong enough to resist borrowing for trivial reasons. The States' 
experience warns us that a two-thirdsvote is insufficient to protect 
against profligacy.
  Some advocate going much farther and establishing limitations on 
spending and taxation as well, but prohibiting borrowingsets a natural 
limit to the limits of the people to tolerate taxation and, therefore, 
spending. The real danger is when runawayspending is accommodated by 
borrowing--a hidden future tax. The best and most effective way to 
invoke that natural limit is asimple prohibition.
  In drafting an amendment to guide not only this generation but all 
those to follow, I would hope that we would do as theConstitutional 
Convention would have done if it had the benefit of Jefferson's wise 
counsel: set down the general principle onlyand allow future 
generations, with their own insight into their own challenges, to put 
it to practical effect.

                          ____________________



