

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S592]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING xCRAFT ENTERPRISES, LLC

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, my home State of Idaho has long been 
known for its incredible natural resources and vibrant agricultural 
economy. What some may not know, though, is that Idaho is also home to 
a burgeoning technology industry, thanks to a number of impressive 
innovators who bring their entrepreneurial spirit and innovations to 
our State. As chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship, it is my pleasure to recognize one of these great 
innovators, xCraft Enterprises, LLC in Coeur d'Alene, as the Senate 
Small Business of the Month for January 2017. xCraft has made Idaho 
proud with their considerable success and continuous innovation in and 
contribution to the unmanned aerial vehicle, UAV, or drone, industry.
  Cofounder and CEO JD Claridge has always had a passion for flight. He 
built numerous flying toys as a child, and at the age of just 7, he 
constructed a hang glider and even convinced a friend to test it. JD 
harnessed this lifelong love of flying and started xCraft Enterprises, 
LLC, along with fellow aviation enthusiast, Charles Manning. Their 
vision for the company was to develop small, powerful, long-range 
drones that serve the needs of both hobbyists and commercial customers. 
With the expertise and skills of their team of highly educated 
engineers and business people, they have turned their aviation dream 
into a successful small business endeavor.
  xCraft's patent-pending drones are built with lightweight materials 
that allow for long-range flight and are also capable of flying 
preprogrammed GPS-enabled flight paths. Notably, the company has 
designed a drone which has the ability to carry and utilize a 
smartphone, making it possible to link advanced smartphone technology 
to an economically priced small drone. In addition, xCraft has been 
recognized as a leader in the UAV and technology industries for 
producing one of the fastest racing drones available on the market 
today, exceeding speeds of 100 miles per hour. This continuous 
innovation and reinvention adds an immense value to the numerous and 
diverse industries that drones play a major role in, helping to drive 
the entire American economy forward.
  Today xCraft offers seven drones of varying sizes and capabilities. 
There is no telling what their next innovation will be, but I know it 
will be another great contribution to their industry and the many 
others that depend upon it. It is my honor to recognize JD, Charles, 
and all of the employees at xCraft Enterprises, LLC in Coeur d'Alene. 
Thank you for your commitment to innovation and for carrying on the 
entrepreneurial spirit that is so valued in our great State of Idaho. I 
look forward to following your continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



