

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2621]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     THE SMITH FAMILY ACHIEVED THE AMERICAN DREAM THROUGH HARD WORK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Bergman). Under the Speaker's announced 
policy of January 3, 2017, the gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms. 
Foxx) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, last month I had the privilege of meeting Lisa 
and Chad Smith and their charming son Jamil during a visit to Newland, 
North Carolina, in the Fifth District.
  The Smiths are the proprietors of Forage Soaps, which began in 2014 
with a $50 purchase of supplies and a trip to the Avery County Farmers 
Market to sell their first batch of wild-crafted soaps made in their 
kitchen. Wild-crafted refers to plants collected from their natural or 
indigenous habitat. The Smiths handpicked these botanicals fresh from 
the trail with minimal environmental impact to ensure long-term 
sustainability.
  Well, that first batch turned into a second batch and a third batch, 
and so on. As they continued to make soap, they bought better equipment 
and invested in larger orders of supplies. Word spread about their 
soap, and before they knew it, the Smiths were receiving invitations to 
attend craft and artisan shows. They were invited to put their soap in 
several local galleries, and it wasn't long before they were filling 
their first wholesale order.
  Today their business includes a retail location that also functions 
as their studio as well as several small satellite locations and an 
online store. Chad works for Mountain Electric Cooperative full time, 
and Lisa has a master's degree in organic chemistry and biology. She 
has been making soap for more than 20 years.
  The Smiths adopted Jamil when he was 18 months old. They were told he 
would never be able to speak and may never be able to walk. Today he 
does both and is attending school and thriving with their loving care. 
He even helps out with the business, where he loves to mix oils and 
wild-craft herbs. Their older children help with deliveries and during 
special events, while their grandchildren like to come on weekends to 
help stock shelves and run the cash register. It is truly a family 
affair.
  Lisa likes to say she and Chad built their business one bar of soap 
at a time. They didn't take out business loans or expect to be an 
overnight success. Instead, they started small and grew a little bit at 
a time, working long, hard hours, and eventually reinvesting in their 
business.
  The Smiths are living proof that one can achieve the American Dream 
through hard work. It is an honor to represent them in Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Gaetz).


                         The Florida Everglades

  Mr. GAETZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
  I rise to speak on an issue important to so many Floridians, and that 
is the Florida Everglades. The Everglades are Florida. They are as 
iconic as the Blue Angels, the space shuttle, and even the orange. No 
one in Florida is unaffected by the fate of the Everglades. This is why 
I join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in encouraging 
President Trump to remain focused on Everglades restoration.
  Congress has invested in these projects before, and the Everglades 
ecosystem is improving as a result. But there is debate about how to 
proceed. In short, the question is: Should the government buy more 
Everglades land?
  I say no. Forty-two percent of the land in south Florida is already 
owned by the government. We should get the government out of the real 
estate business, not deeper into it.
  Instead of a land buy, we must finish the Comprehensive Everglades 
Restoration Plan. Since 2000, this plan has enjoyed bipartisan support. 
Taxpayer dollars go toward important environmental work. The plan 
respects private property rights, doesn't harm agricultural communities 
who play a critical role in Florida's economies, and advances the cause 
of restoration.
  Florida's Everglades are a national treasure. We can't afford to lose 
them. Finishing the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan will 
ensure that our river of grass will be around for generations to come.
  Mr. Speaker, I take particular pride in thanking both Congressmen 
Rooneys from my State for their outstanding leadership.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



