

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H810-H814]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


    rules of the committee on appropriations for the 115th congress

                                         House of Representatives,


                                   Committee on Appropriations

                                 Washington, DC, January 31, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker of the House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: Pursuant to clause 2(a)(2) of House Rule 
     XI, the Committee on Appropriations adopted its rules for the 
     115th Congress on January 24, 2017, and I submit them now for 
     publication in the Congressional Record.
           Sincerely,
                                             Rodney Frelinghuysen,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

       Resolved, That the rules and practices of the Committee on 
     Appropriations, House of Representatives, in the One Hundred 
     Fourteenth Congress, except as otherwise provided 
     hereinafter, shall be and are hereby adopted as the rules and 
     practices of the Committee on Appropriations in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress.
       The foregoing resolution adopts the following rules:


                      Sec. 1: Power to Sit and Act

       (a) For the purpose of carrying out any of its functions 
     and duties under rules X and XI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives, the Committee and each of its subcommittees 
     is authorized:
       (1) To sit and act at such times and places within the 
     United States whether the House is in session, has recessed, 
     or has adjourned, and to hold such hearings as it deems 
     necessary; and

[[Page H811]]

       (2) To require, by subpoena or otherwise, the attendance 
     and testimony of such witnesses and the production of such 
     books, reports, correspondence, memorandums, papers, and 
     documents as it deems necessary.
       (b) The Chairman, or any Member designated by the Chairman, 
     may administer oaths to any witness.
       (c) A subpoena may be authorized and issued by the 
     Committee or its subcommittees under subsection (a)(2) in the 
     conduct of any investigation or activity or series of 
     investigations or activities, only when authorized by a 
     majority of the Members of the Committee voting, a majority 
     being present. The power to authorize and issue subpoenas 
     under subsection (a)(2) may be delegated to the Chairman 
     pursuant to such rules and under such limitations as the 
     Committee may prescribe. Authorized subpoenas shall be signed 
     by the Chairman or by any Member designated by the Committee.
       (d) Compliance with any subpoena issued by the Committee or 
     its subcommittees may be enforced only as authorized or 
     directed by the House.


                         Sec. 2: Subcommittees

       (a) The Majority Caucus of the Committee shall establish 
     the number of subcommittees and shall determine the 
     jurisdiction of each subcommittee.
       (b) Each subcommittee is authorized to meet, hold hearings, 
     receive evidence, and report to the Committee all matters 
     referred to it.
       (c) All legislation and other matters referred to the 
     Committee shall be referred to the subcommittee of 
     appropriate jurisdiction within two weeks unless, by majority 
     vote of the Majority Members of the full Committee, 
     consideration is to be by the full Committee.
       (d) The Majority Caucus of the Committee shall determine an 
     appropriate ratio of Majority to Minority Members for each 
     subcommittee. The Chairman is authorized to negotiate that 
     ratio with the Minority; Provided, however, That party 
     representation in each subcommittee, including ex-officio 
     members, shall be no less favorable to the Majority than the 
     ratio for the full Committee.
       (e) The Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the full 
     Committee are each authorized to sit as a member of all 
     subcommittees and to participate, including voting, in all of 
     the work of the subcommittees.


                            Sec. 3: Staffing

       (a) Committee Staff--The Chairman is authorized to appoint 
     the staff of the Committee, and make adjustments in the job 
     titles and compensation thereof subject to the maximum rates 
     and conditions established in clause 9(c) of rule X of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives. In addition, he is 
     authorized, in his discretion, to arrange for their 
     specialized training. The Chairman is also authorized to 
     employ additional personnel as necessary.
       (b) Assistants to Members:
       (1) Each chairman and ranking minority member of a 
     subcommittee or the full Committee, including a Chairman 
     Emeritus, may select and designate one staff member who shall 
     serve at the pleasure of that Member.
       (2) Notwithstanding (b)(1), the Chairman may prescribe such 
     terms and conditions necessary to achieve a reduction in the 
     number of Assistants to Members previously designated by a 
     Member of the Committee prior to the adoption of the Rules of 
     the House establishing the Committee for the 112th Congress.
       (3) Staff members designated under this subsection shall be 
     compensated at a rate, determined by the Member, not to 
     exceed 75 per centum of the maximum established in clause 
     9(c) of Rule X of the Rules of the House of Representatives.
       (4) Members designating staff members under this subsection 
     must specifically certify by letter to the Chairman that the 
     employees are needed and will be utilized for Committee work.


                       Sec. 4: Committee Meetings

       (a) Regular Meeting Day--The regular meeting day of the 
     Committee shall be the first Wednesday of each month while 
     the House is in session if notice is given pursuant to 
     paragraph (d)(3).
       (b) Additional and Special Meetings:
       (1) The Chairman may call and convene, as he considers 
     necessary, additional meetings of the Committee for the 
     consideration of any bill or resolution pending before the 
     Committee or for the conduct of other Committee business. The 
     Committee shall meet for such purpose pursuant to that call 
     of the Chairman.
       (2) If at least three Committee Members desire that a 
     special meeting of the Committee be called by the Chairman, 
     those Members may file in the Committee Offices a written 
     request to the Chairman for that special meeting. Such 
     request shall specify the measure or matter to be considered. 
     Upon the filing of the request, the Committee Clerk shall 
     notify the Chairman.
       (3) If within three calendar days after the filing of the 
     request, the Chairman does not call the requested special 
     meeting to be held within seven calendar days after the 
     filing of the request, a majority of the Committee Members 
     may file in the Committee Offices their written notice that a 
     special meeting will be held, specifying the date and hour of 
     such meeting, and the measure or matter to be considered. The 
     Committee shall meet on that date and hour.
       (4) Immediately upon the filing of the notice, the 
     Committee Clerk shall notify all Committee Members that such 
     special meeting will be held and inform them of its date and 
     hour and the measure or matter to be considered. Such notice 
     shall also be made publicly available in electronic form and 
     shall be deemed to satisfy paragraph (d)(3). Only the measure 
     or matter specified in that notice may be considered at the 
     special meeting.
       (c) Vice Chairman To Preside in Absence of Chairman--A 
     member of the majority party on the Committee or subcommittee 
     thereof designated by the chairman of the full Committee 
     shall be vice chairman of the Committee or subcommittee, as 
     the case may be, and shall preside at any meeting during the 
     temporary absence of the chairman. If the chairman and vice 
     chairman of the Committee or subcommittee are not present at 
     any meeting of the Committee or subcommittee, the ranking 
     member of the majority party who is present shall preside at 
     that meeting.
       (d) Business Meetings:
       (1) Each meeting for the transaction of business, including 
     the markup of legislation, of the Committee and its 
     subcommittees shall be open to the public except when the 
     Committee or the subcommittee concerned, in open session and 
     with a majority present, determines by roll call vote that 
     all or part of the remainder of the meeting on that day shall 
     be closed.
       (2) No person other than Committee Members and such 
     congressional staff and departmental representatives as they 
     may authorize shall be present at any business or markup 
     session which has been closed.
       (3) The Chairman shall announce the date, place, and 
     subject matter of each committee meeting for the transaction 
     of business, which may not commence earlier than the third 
     day on which members have notice thereof, unless the 
     Chairman, with the concurrence of the Ranking Minority 
     Member, or the Committee by majority vote with a quorum 
     present for the transaction of business, determines there is 
     good cause to begin the meeting sooner, in which case the 
     Chairman shall make the announcement at the earliest possible 
     date. An announcement shall be published promptly in the 
     Daily Digest and made publicly available in electronic form.
       (4) At least 24 hours prior to the commencement of a 
     meeting for the markup of a bill or resolution, or at the 
     time an announcement is made pursuant to the preceding 
     subparagraph within 24 hours before such meeting, the 
     Chairman shall cause the text of such bill or resolution to 
     be made publicly available in electronic form.
       (e) Committee Records:
       (1) The Committee shall keep a complete record of all 
     Committee action, including a record of the votes on any 
     question on which a roll call is taken. The result of each 
     roll call vote shall be available for inspection by the 
     public during regular business hours in the Committee Offices 
     and also made available in electronic form within 48 hours of 
     such record vote. The information made available for public 
     inspection shall include a description of the amendment, 
     motion, or other proposition, and the name of each Member 
     voting for and each Member voting against, and the names of 
     those Members present but not voting.
       (2) Committee records (including hearings, data, charts, 
     and files) shall be kept separate and distinct from the 
     congressional office records of the Chairman of the 
     Committee. Such records shall be the property of the House, 
     and all Members of the House shall have access thereto.
       (3) The records of the Committee at the National Archives 
     and Records Administration shall be made available in 
     accordance with rule VII of the Rules of the House, except 
     that the Committee authorizes use of any record to which 
     clause 3(b)(4) of rule VI of the Rules of the House would 
     otherwise apply after such record has been in existence for 
     20 years. The Chairman shall notify the Ranking Minority 
     Member of any decision, pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or clause 
     4(b) of rule VI of the Rules of the House, to withhold a 
     record otherwise available, and the matter shall be presented 
     to the Committee for a determination upon the written request 
     of any Member of the Committee.
       (f) Availability of Amendments Adopted--Not later than 24 
     hours after the adoption of an amendment to a bill or 
     resolution, the Chairman shall cause the text of any 
     amendment adopted thereto to be made publicly available in 
     electronic form.


              Sec. 5: Committee and Subcommittee Hearings

       (a) Overall Budget Hearings--Overall budget hearings by the 
     Committee, including the hearing required by section 242(c) 
     of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970 and clause 4 
     (a)(1) of rule X of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives, shall be conducted in open session except 
     when the Committee in open session and with a majority 
     present, determines by roll call vote that the testimony to 
     be taken at that hearing on that day may be related to a 
     matter of national security; except that the Committee may by 
     the same procedure close one subsequent day of hearing. A 
     transcript of all such hearings shall be printed and a copy 
     furnished to each Member, Delegate, and the Resident 
     Commissioner from Puerto Rico.
       (b) Other Hearings:
       (1) All other hearings conducted by the Committee or its 
     subcommittees shall be open to the public except when the 
     Committee or subcommittee in open session and

[[Page H812]]

     with a majority present determines by roll call vote that all 
     or part of the remainder of that hearing on that day shall be 
     closed to the public because disclosure of testimony, 
     evidence, or other matters to be considered would endanger 
     the national security or would violate any law or Rule of the 
     House of Representatives. Notwithstanding the requirements of 
     the preceding sentence, a majority of those present at a 
     hearing conducted by the Committee or any of its 
     subcommittees, there being in attendance the number required 
     under section 5(c) of these rules to be present for the 
     purpose of taking testimony, (1) may vote to close the 
     hearing for the sole purpose of discussing whether testimony 
     or evidence to be received would endanger the national 
     security or violate clause 2(k)(5) of rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House of Representatives or (2) may vote to close the 
     hearing, as provided in clause 2(k)(5) of such rule. No 
     Member of the House of Representatives may be excluded from 
     nonparticipatory attendance at any hearing of the Committee 
     or its subcommittees unless the House of Representatives 
     shall by majority vote authorize the Committee or any of its 
     subcommittees, for purposes of a particular series of 
     hearings on a particular article of legislation or on a 
     particular subject of investigation, to close its hearings to 
     Members by the same procedures designated in this subsection 
     for closing hearings to the public; Provided, however, That 
     the Committee or its subcommittees may by the same procedure 
     vote to close five subsequent days of hearings.
       (2) Subcommittee chairmen shall coordinate the development 
     of schedules for meetings or hearings after consultation with 
     the Chairman and other subcommittee chairmen with a view 
     toward avoiding simultaneous scheduling of Committee and 
     subcommittee meetings or hearings.
       (3) Each witness who is to appear before the Committee or 
     any of its subcommittees as the case may be, insofar as is 
     practicable, shall file in advance of such appearance, a 
     written statement of the proposed testimony and shall limit 
     the oral presentation at such appearance to a brief summary, 
     except that this provision shall not apply to any witness 
     appearing before the Committee in the overall budget 
     hearings.
       (4) Each witness appearing in a nongovernmental capacity 
     before the Committee, or any of its subcommittees as the case 
     may be, shall to the greatest extent practicable, submit a 
     written statement including a curriculum vitae and a 
     disclosure of the amount and source (by agency and program) 
     of any Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) or contract (or 
     subcontract thereof), or contracts or payments originating 
     from a foreign government, received during the current fiscal 
     year or either of the two previous fiscal years by the 
     witness or by an entity represented by the witness and 
     related to the subject matter of the hearing. Such 
     statements, with appropriate redactions to protect the 
     privacy of witnesses, shall be made publicly available in 
     electronic form not later than one day after the witness 
     appears. The disclosure referred to in this paragraph shall 
     include the amount and source of each Federal grant (or 
     subgrant thereof) or contract (or subcontract thereof) 
     related to the subject matter of the hearing, and the amount 
     and country of origin of any payment or contract related to 
     the subject matter of the hearing originating with a foreign 
     government.
       (c) Quorum for Taking Testimony--The number of Members of 
     the Committee which shall constitute a quorum for taking 
     testimony and receiving evidence in any hearing of the 
     Committee shall be two.
       (d) Calling and Interrogation of Witnesses:
       (1) The Minority Members of the Committee or its 
     subcommittees shall be entitled, upon request to the Chairman 
     or subcommittee chairman, by a majority of them before 
     completion of any hearing, to call witnesses selected by the 
     Minority to testify with respect to the matter under 
     consideration during at least one day of hearings thereon.
       (2) The Committee and its subcommittees shall observe the 
     five-minute rule during the interrogation of witnesses until 
     such time as each Member of the Committee or subcommittee who 
     so desires has had an opportunity to question the witness.
       (e) Broadcasting and Photographing of Committee Meetings 
     and Hearings--Whenever a hearing or meeting conducted by the 
     full Committee or any of its subcommittees is open to the 
     public, those proceedings shall be open to coverage by 
     television, radio, and still photography, and shall be 
     conducted in accordance with the requirements set forth in 
     clause (4)(f) of rule XI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives. Neither the full Committee Chairman or 
     subcommittee chairman shall limit the number of television or 
     still cameras to fewer than two representatives from each 
     medium (except for legitimate space or safety, in which case 
     pool coverage shall be authorized). To the maximum 
     practicable, the Committee shall provide audio and video 
     coverage of each hearing or meeting for the transaction of 
     business in a manner that allows the public to easily listen 
     to and view the proceedings and shall maintain the recordings 
     of such coverage in a manner that is easily accessible to the 
     public.
       (f) Subcommittee Meetings--No subcommittee shall sit while 
     the House is reading an appropriation measure for amendment 
     under the five-minute rule or while the Committee is in 
     session.
       (g) Public Notice of Committee Hearings--The Chairman of 
     the Committee shall make public announcement of the date, 
     place, and subject matter of any Committee or subcommittee 
     hearing at least one week before the commencement of the 
     hearing. If the Chairman of the Committee or subcommittee, 
     with the concurrence of the ranking minority member of the 
     Committee or respective subcommittee, determines there is 
     good cause to begin the hearing sooner, or if the Committee 
     or subcommittee so determines by majority vote, a quorum 
     being present for the transaction of business, the Chairman 
     or subcommittee chairman shall make the announcement at the 
     earliest possible date. Any announcement made under this 
     subsection shall be promptly published in the Daily Digest 
     and made publicly available in electronic form.


         Sec. 6: Procedures for Reporting Bills and Resolutions

       (a) Prompt Reporting Requirement:
       (1) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to report, or 
     cause to be reported promptly to the House any bill or 
     resolution approved by the Committee and to take or cause to 
     be taken necessary steps to bring the matter to a vote.
       (2) In any event, a report on a bill or resolution which 
     the Committee has approved shall be filed within seven 
     calendar days (exclusive of days in which the House is not in 
     session) after the day on which there has been filed with the 
     Committee Clerk a written request, signed by a majority of 
     Committee Members, for the reporting of such bill or 
     resolution. Upon the filing of any such request, the 
     Committee Clerk shall notify the Chairman immediately of the 
     filing of the request. This subsection does not apply to the 
     reporting of a regular appropriation bill or to the reporting 
     of a resolution of inquiry addressed to the head of an 
     executive department.
       (b) Presence of Committee Majority--No measure or 
     recommendation shall be reported from the Committee unless a 
     majority of the Committee was actually present.
       (c) Roll Call Votes--With respect to each roll call vote on 
     a motion to report any measure or matter of a public 
     character, and on any amendment offered to the measure of 
     matter, the total number of votes cast for and against, and 
     the names of those Members voting for and against, shall be 
     included in the Committee report on the measure or matter.
       (d) Compliance With Congressional Budget Act--A Committee 
     report on a bill or resolution which has been approved by the 
     Committee shall include the statement required by section 
     308(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, separately 
     set out and clearly identified, if the bill or resolution 
     provides new budget authority.
       (e) Changes in Existing Law--Each Committee report on a 
     general appropriation bill shall contain a concise statement 
     describing fully the effect of any provision of the bill 
     which directly or indirectly changes the application of 
     existing law.
       (f) Rescissions and Transfers--Each bill or resolution 
     reported by the Committee shall include separate headings for 
     rescissions and transfers of unexpended balances with all 
     proposed rescissions and transfers listed therein. The report 
     of the Committee accompanying such a bill or resolution shall 
     include a separate section with respect to such rescissions 
     or transfers.
       (g) Listing of Unauthorized Appropriations--Each Committee 
     report on a general appropriation bill shall contain a list 
     of all appropriations contained in the bill for any 
     expenditure not currently authorized by law for the period 
     concerned (except for classified intelligence or national 
     security programs, projects, or activities) along with a 
     statement of the last year for which such expenditures were 
     authorized, the level of expenditures authorized for that 
     year, the actual level of expenditures for that year, and the 
     level of appropriations in the bill for such expenditures.
       (h) Duplicative Programs--Each Committee report on a bill 
     or joint resolution that establishes or reauthorizes a 
     Federal program shall contain a statement indicating whether 
     such program is known to be duplicative of another program, 
     pursuant to clause 3(c)(5) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
     House of Representatives.
       (i) Supplemental or Minority Views:
       (1) If, at the time the Committee approves any measure or 
     matter, any Committee Member gives notice of intention to 
     file supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views, 
     all Members shall be entitled to not less than two additional 
     calendar days after the day of such notice (excluding 
     Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) in which to file such 
     views in writing and signed by the Member, with the Clerk of 
     the Committee. All such views so filed shall be included in 
     and shall be a part of the report filed by the Committee with 
     respect to that measure or matter.
       (2) The Committee report on that measure or matter shall be 
     printed in a single volume which--
       (i) shall include all supplemental, minority, additional, 
     or dissenting views which have been submitted by the time of 
     the filing of the report, and
       (ii) shall have on its cover a recital that any such 
     supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views are 
     included as part of the report.
       (3) This subsection does not preclude--
       (i) the immediate filing or printing of a Committee report 
     unless timely request for

[[Page H813]]

     the opportunity to file supplemental, minority, additional, 
     or dissenting views has been made as provided by such 
     subsection; or
       (ii) the filing by the Committee of a supplemental report 
     on a measure or matter which may be required for correction 
     of any technical error in a previous report made by the 
     Committee on that measure or matter.
       (4) If, at the time a subcommittee approves any measure or 
     matter for recommendation to the full Committee, any Member 
     of that subcommittee who gives notice of intention to offer 
     supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views shall 
     be entitled, insofar as is practicable and in accordance with 
     the printing requirements as determined by the subcommittee, 
     to include such views in the Committee Print with respect to 
     that measure or matter.
       (j) Availability of Reports--A copy of each bill, 
     resolution, or report shall be made available to each Member 
     of the Committee at least three calendar days (excluding 
     Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) in advance of the 
     date on which the Committee is to consider each bill, 
     resolution, or report; Provided, That this subsection may be 
     waived by agreement between the Chairman and the Ranking 
     Minority Member of the full Committee.
       (k) Performance Goals and Objectives--Each Committee report 
     shall contain a statement of general performance goals and 
     objectives, including outcome-related goals and objectives, 
     for which the measure authorizes funding.
       (l) Motion to go to Conference--The Chairman is directed to 
     offer a motion under clause 1 of rule XXII of the Rules of 
     the House whenever the Chairman considers it appropriate.


                             Sec. 7: Voting

       (a) No vote by any Member of the Committee or any of its 
     subcommittees with respect to any measure or matter may be 
     cast by proxy.
       (b) The vote on any question before the Committee shall be 
     taken by the yeas and nays on the demand of one-fifth of the 
     Members present.
       (c) The Chairman of the Committee or the chairman of any of 
     its subcommittees may--
       (1) postpone further proceedings when a record vote is 
     ordered on the question of approving a measure or matter or 
     on adopting an amendment;
       (2) resume proceedings on a postponed question at any time 
     after reasonable notice.
       When proceedings resume on a postponed question, 
     notwithstanding any intervening order for the previous 
     question, an underlying proposition shall remain subject to 
     further debate or amendment to the same extent as when the 
     question was postponed.


                    Sec. 8: Studies and Examinations

       The following procedure shall be applicable with respect to 
     the conduct of studies and examinations of the organization 
     and operation of Executive Agencies under authority contained 
     in section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
     1946 and in clause (3)(a) of rule X of the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives:
       (a) The Chairman is authorized to appoint such staff and, 
     in his discretion, arrange for the procurement of temporary 
     services of consultants, as from time to time may be 
     required.
       (b) Studies and examinations will be initiated upon the 
     written request of a subcommittee which shall be reasonably 
     specific and definite in character, and shall be initiated 
     only by a majority vote of the subcommittee, with the 
     chairman of the subcommittee and the ranking minority member 
     thereof participating as part of such majority vote. When so 
     initiated such request shall be filed with the Clerk of the 
     Committee for submission to the Chairman and the Ranking 
     Minority Member and their approval shall be required to make 
     the same effective. Notwithstanding any action taken on such 
     request by the chairman and ranking minority member of the 
     subcommittee, a request may be approved by a majority of the 
     Committee.
       (c) Any request approved as provided under subsection (b) 
     shall be immediately turned over to the staff appointed for 
     action.
       (d) Any information obtained by such staff shall be 
     reported to the chairman of the subcommittee requesting such 
     study and examination and to the Chairman and Ranking 
     Minority Member, shall be made available to the members of 
     the subcommittee concerned, and shall not be released for 
     publication until the subcommittee so determines.
       (e) Any hearings or investigations which may be desired, 
     aside from the regular hearings on appropriation items, when 
     approved by the Committee, shall be conducted by the 
     subcommittee having jurisdiction over the matter.


              Sec. 9: Temporary Investigative Task Forces

       (a) The Chairman of the full Committee, in consultation 
     with the Ranking Member of the full Committee, may establish 
     and appoint members to serve on task forces of the Committee, 
     to examine specific activities for a limited period of time 
     in accordance with clause 5(b)2(C) of rule X of the Rules of 
     the House.
       (b) The Chairman of the full Committee shall issue a 
     written directive, in consultation with the Ranking Member of 
     the full Committee, delineating the specific activities to be 
     reviewed by a task force constituted pursuant to the 
     preceding paragraph.
       (c) A task force constituted under this section shall 
     provide a written report of its findings and recommendations 
     to the full Committee Chairman and Ranking Member and members 
     of the relevant subcommittees having jurisdiction over the 
     matters reviewed. Such report shall be approved by a majority 
     vote of the task force and shall include any supplemental, 
     minority, additional, or dissenting views submitted by a 
     Member of the task force or a member of a subcommittee having 
     jurisdiction over the matter reviewed.
       (d) Any information obtained during the course of such 
     investigation, and any report produced by, a task force 
     pursuant to this section, shall not be released until the 
     Chairman of the full Committee has authorized such release.
       (e) The Chairman is authorized to appoint such staff, and, 
     in his discretion, arrange for the procurement of temporary 
     services, as from time to time may be required.


                        Sec. 10: Official Travel

       (a) The chairman of a subcommittee shall approve requests 
     for travel by subcommittee members and staff for official 
     business within the jurisdiction of that subcommittee. The 
     ranking minority member of a subcommittee shall concur in 
     such travel requests by minority members of that subcommittee 
     and the Ranking Minority Member shall concur in such travel 
     requests for Minority Members of the Committee. Requests in 
     writing covering the purpose, itinerary, and dates of 
     proposed travel shall be submitted for final approval to the 
     Chairman. Specific approval shall be required for each and 
     every trip.
       (b) The Chairman is authorized during the recess of the 
     Congress to approve travel authorizations for Committee 
     Members and staff, including travel outside the United 
     States.
       (c) As soon as practicable, the Chairman shall direct the 
     head of each Government agency concerned to honor requests of 
     subcommittees, individual Members, or staff for travel, the 
     direct or indirect expenses of which are to be defrayed from 
     an executive appropriation, only upon request from the 
     Chairman.
       (d) In accordance with clause 8 of rule X of the Rules of 
     the House of Representatives and section 502(b) of the Mutual 
     Security Act of 1954, as amended, local currencies owned by 
     the United States shall be available to Committee Members and 
     staff engaged in carrying out their official duties outside 
     the United States, its territories, or possessions. No 
     Committee Member or staff member shall receive or expend 
     local currencies for subsistence in any country at a rate in 
     excess of the maximum per diem rate set forth in applicable 
     Federal law.
       (e) Travel Reports:
       (1) Members or staff shall make a report to the Chairman on 
     their travel, covering the purpose, results, itinerary, 
     expenses, and other pertinent comments.
       (2) With respect to travel outside the United States or its 
     territories or possessions, the report shall include: (1) an 
     itemized list showing the dates each country was visited, the 
     amount of per diem furnished, the cost of transportation 
     furnished, and any funds expended for any other official 
     purpose; and (2) a summary in these categories of the total 
     foreign currencies and/or appropriated funds expended. All 
     such individual reports on foreign travel shall be filed with 
     the Chairman no later than 60 days following completion of 
     the travel for use in complying with reporting requirements 
     in applicable Federal law, and shall be open for public 
     inspection.
       (3) Each Member or employee performing such travel shall be 
     solely responsible for supporting the amounts reported by the 
     Member or employee.
       (4) No report or statement as to any trip shall be 
     publicized making any recommendations on behalf of the 
     Committee without the authorization of a majority of the 
     Committee.
       (f) Members and staff of the Committee performing 
     authorized travel on official business pertaining to the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee shall be governed by applicable 
     laws or regulations of the House and of the Committee on 
     House Administration pertaining to such travel, and as 
     promulgated from time to time by the Chairman.


                      Sec. 11. Activities Reports:

       (a) Not later than January 2 of each odd-numbered year, the 
     Committee shall submit to the House a report on the 
     activities of the Committee.
       (b) After adjournment sine die of a regular session of 
     Congress, or after December 15, whichever occurs first, the 
     Chairman may file the report with the Clerk of the House at 
     any time and without the approval of the Committee, provided 
     that a copy of the report has been available to each Member 
     of the Committee for at least seven calendar days and the 
     report includes any supplemental, minority, additional, or 
     dissenting views submitted by a Member of the Committee.

[[Page H814]]

  

                          ____________________



