

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S593]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           MEASURES REFERRED

  The following bills were read the first and the second times by 
unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

       H.R. 58. An act to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to submit a study on the circumstances which may 
     impact the effectiveness and availability of first responders 
     before, during, or after a terrorist threat or event, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 276. An act a bill to amend title 49, United States 
     Code, to ensure reliable air service in American Samoa; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
       H.R. 339. An act to amend Public Law 94-241 with respect to 
     the Northern Mariana Islands; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
       H.R. 347. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to provide for requirements relating to documentation for 
     major acquisition programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 366. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to direct the Under Secretary for Management of the 
     Department of Homeland Security to make certain improvements 
     in managing the Department's vehicle fleet, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 381. An act to designate a mountain in the John Muir 
     Wilderness of the Sierra National Forest as ``Sky Point'' ; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
       H.R. 437. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to codify authority under existing grant guidance authorizing 
     use of Urban Area Security Initiative and State Homeland 
     Security Grant Program funding for enhancing medical 
     preparedness, medical surge capacity, and mass prophylaxis 
     capabilities; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 505. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to strengthen accountability for deployment of border 
     security technology at the Department of Homeland Security, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 526. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish in the Department of Homeland Security a board 
     to coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence, 
     activities, and policy related to counterterrorism, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 538. An act to redesignate Ocmulgee National Monument 
     in the State of Georgia and revise its boundary, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
       H.R. 549. An act to amend the Implementing Recommendations 
     of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 to clarify certain 
     allowable uses of funds for public transportation security 
     assistance grants and establish periods of performance for 
     such grants, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 558. An act to adjust the boundary of the Kennesaw 
     Mountain National Battlefield Park to include the Wallis 
     House and Harriston Hill, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
       H.R. 584. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to enhance preparedness and response capabilities for cyber 
     attacks, bolster the dissemination of homeland security 
     information related to cyber threats, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.
       H.R. 612. An act to establish a grant program at the 
     Department of Homeland Security to promote cooperative 
     research and development between the United States and Israel 
     on cybersecurity; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 642. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to enhance the partnership between the Department of Homeland 
     Security and the National Network of Fusion Centers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 655. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish the Securing the Cities program to enhance the 
     ability of the United States to detect and prevent terrorist 
     attacks and other high consequence events utilizing nuclear 
     or other radiological materials that pose a high risk to 
     homeland security in high-risk urban areas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 665. An act to modernize and enhance airport perimeter 
     and access control security by requiring updated risk 
     assessments and the development of security strategies, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
       H.R. 666. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish the Insider Threat Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 677. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear 
     intelligence and information sharing functions of the Office 
     of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland 
     Security and to require dissemination of information analyzed 
     by the Department to entities with responsibilities relating 
     to homeland security, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 678. An act to require an assessment of fusion center 
     personnel needs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 687. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish a process to review applications for certain 
     grants to purchase equipment or systems that do not meet or 
     exceed any applicable national voluntary consensus standards, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 690. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to enhance certain duties of the Domestic Nuclear Detection 
     Office, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 697. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to improve the management and administration of the security 
     clearance processes throughout the Department of Homeland 
     Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



