

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1690-S1691]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 14

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 14, a bill to 
provide that Members of Congress may not receive pay after October 1 of 
any fiscal year in which Congress has not approved a concurrent 
resolution on the budget and passed the regular appropriations bills.


                                 S. 65

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 65, a bill to address 
financial conflicts of interest of the President and Vice President.


                                 S. 67

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 67, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of State to submit to Congress a report on the 
designation of Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps as a foreign terrorist 
organization, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 130

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 130, a bill to require 
enforcement against misbranded milk alternatives.


                                 S. 147

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 147, a bill to prevent a 
taxpayer bailout of health insurance issuers.


                                 S. 168

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 168, a bill to amend and 
enhance certain maritime programs of the Department of Transportation.


                                 S. 175

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 175, a bill 
to amend the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to 
transfer certain funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 
1974 United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 206

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 206, a bill to amend the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 to allow the Secretary of Education to award job 
training Federal Pell Grants.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 299

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 299, a bill to require the 
appropriation of funds to use a fee, fine, penalty, or proceeds from a 
settlement received by a Federal agency, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 362

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 362, a bill 
to provide that 6 of the 12 weeks of parental leave made available to a 
Federal employee shall be paid leave, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 382, a bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services to develop a voluntary registry to collect data on 
cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 384, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the new markets tax 
credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 405

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 405, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 and the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide an 
exclusion from income for student loan forgiveness for students who 
have died or become disabled.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to 
the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the 
Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 425

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 425, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve the historic rehabilitation 
tax credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 438

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 438, a bill to encourage 
effective, voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and 
women who have served in the United States military with annual Federal 
awards to employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 465

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 465, a bill to provide 
for an independent outside audit of the Indian Health Service.


                                 S. 538

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 538, a bill to 
clarify research and development for wood products, and for other 
purposes.

[[Page S1691]]

  



                                 S. 543

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 543, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to require the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to include in each contract into which the Secretary 
enters for necessary services authorities and mechanism for appropriate 
oversight, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 544

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 544, a bill to 
amend Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to modify 
the termination date for the Veterans Choice Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 546

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 546, a bill to reduce 
temporarily the royalty required to be paid for sodium produced on 
Federal lands, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 549

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 549, a bill to block implementation of the 
Executive Order that restricts individuals from certain countries from 
entering the United States.


                                 S. 550

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 550, a bill to restore 
statutory rights to the people of the United States from forced 
arbitration.


                                 S. 552

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 552, a bill to amend the 
Truth in Lending Act and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to provide 
justice to victims of fraud.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.


                              S.J. RES. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 27, a joint resolution 
disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of Labor relating to 
``Clarification of Employer's Continuing Obligation to Make and 
Maintain an Accurate Record of Each Recordable Injury and Illness''.


                              S.J. RES. 32

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as cosponsors 
of S.J. Res. 32, a joint resolution disapproving the rule submitted by 
the Department of Labor relating to savings arrangements established by 
States for non-governmental employees.


                              S.J. RES. 33

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as cosponsors 
of S.J. Res. 33, a joint resolution disapproving the rule submitted by 
the Department of Labor relating to savings arrangements established by 
qualified State political subdivisions for non-governmental employees.


                               S. RES. 23

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 23, a 
resolution establishing the Select Committee on Cybersecurity.

                          ____________________



