

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S583-S584]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS

                                 ______
                                 

                           RULES OF PROCEDURE

  Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the ``Senate 
Committee on Indian Affairs rules for the 115th Congress'' be printed 
in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

   SENATE COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE RULES FOR THE 115TH 
                                CONGRESS

                           Rules of Procedure

       Rule 1. The Standing Rules of the Senate, Senate Resolution 
     4, and the provisions of the Legislative Reorganization Act 
     of 1946, as amended by the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
     1970, as supplemented by these rules, are adopted as the 
     rules of the Committee to the extent the provisions of such 
     Rules, Resolution, and Acts are applicable to the Committee 
     on Indian Affairs.


                        MEETING OF THE COMMITTEE

       Rule 2. The Committee shall meet on Wednesday/Thursday 
     while the Congress is in session for the purpose of 
     conducting business, unless for the convenience of the 
     Members, the Chairman shall set some other day for a meeting. 
     Additional meetings may be called by the Chairman as he may 
     deem necessary.


                       OPEN HEARINGS AND MEETINGS

       Rule 3(a). Hearings and business meetings of the Committee 
     shall be open to the public except when the Chairman by a 
     majority vote orders a closed hearing or meeting.
       (b). Except as otherwise provided in the Rules of the 
     Senate, a transcript or electronic recording shall be kept of 
     each hearing and business meeting of the Committee.


                           HEARING PROCEDURE

       Rule 4(a). Public notice, including notice to Members of 
     the Committee, shall be given of the date, place and subject 
     matter of any heating to be held by the Committee at least 
     one week in advance of such hearing unless the Chairman of 
     the Committee, with the concurrence of the Vice Chairman, 
     determines that holding the hearing would be non-
     controversial or that special circumstances require expedited 
     procedures and a majority of the Committee Members attending 
     concurs. In no case shall a hearing be conducted with less 
     than 24 hours' notice.
       (b). Each witness who is to appear before the Committee 
     shall submit his or her testimony by way of electronic mail, 
     at least 48 hours in advance of a hearing, in a format 
     determined by the Committee and sent to an electronic mail 
     address specified by the Committee.
       (c). Each Member shall be limited to five (5) minutes of 
     questioning of any witness until such time as all Members 
     attending who so desire have had an opportunity to question 
     the witness unless the Committee shall decide otherwise.


                        BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

       Rule 5(a). A legislative measure or subject shall be 
     included in the agenda of the next following business meeting 
     of the Committee if a written request by a Member for 
     consideration of such measure or subject has been filed with 
     the Chairman of the Committee at least one week prior to such 
     meeting. Nothing in this rule shall be construed to limit the 
     authority of the Chairman of the Committee to include 
     legislative measures or subjects on the Committee agenda in 
     the absence of such request.
       (b). Any bill, resolution, or other matter to be considered 
     by the Committee at a business meeting shall be filed with 
     the Clerk of the Committee. Notice of, and the agenda for, 
     any business meeting of the Committee, and a copy of any 
     bill, resolution, or other matter to be considered at the 
     meeting, shall be provided to each Member and made available 
     to the public at least three days prior to such meeting, and 
     no new items may be added after the agenda is published 
     except by the approval of a majority of the Members of the 
     Committee. The notice and agenda of any business meeting may 
     be provided to the Members by electronic mail, provided that 
     a paper copy will be provided to any Member upon request. The 
     Clerk shall promptly notify absent Members of any action 
     taken by the Committee on matters not included in the 
     published agenda.
       (c). Any amendment(s) to any bill or resolution to be 
     considered shall be filed with the Clerk not less than 48 
     hours in advance. This rule may be waived by the Chairman 
     with the concurrence of the Vice Chairman.


                                 QUORUM

       Rule 6(a). Except as provided in subsection (b), a majority 
     of the Members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction 
     of business of the Committee. Except as provided in Senate 
     Rule XXVI 7(a), a quorum is presumed to be present unless the 
     absence of a quorum is noted by a Member.
       (b). One Member shall constitute a quorum for the purpose 
     of conducting a hearing or taking testimony on any measure or 
     matter before the Committee.


                                 VOTING

       Rule 7(a). A recorded vote of the Members shall be taken 
     upon the request of any Member.
       (b). A measure may be reported without a recorded vote from 
     the Committee unless an objection is made by a Member, in 
     which case a recorded vote by the Members shall be required. 
     A Member shall have the right to

[[Page S584]]

     have his or her additional views included in the Committee 
     report in accordance with Senate Rule XXVI 10.
       (c). A Committee vote to report a measure to the Senate 
     shall also authorize the staff of the Committee to make 
     necessary technical and conforming changes to the measure.
       (d). Proxy voting shall be permitted on all matters, except 
     that proxies may not be counted for the purpose of 
     determining the presence of a quorum. Unless further limited, 
     a proxy shall be exercised only for the date for which it is 
     given and upon the terms published in the agenda for that 
     date.


                SWORN TESTIMONY AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       Rule 8(a). Witnesses in Committee hearings may be required 
     to give testimony under oath whenever the Chairman or Vice 
     Chairman of the Committee deems it to be necessary.
       (b). At any hearing to confirm a Presidential nomination, 
     the testimony of the nominee, and at the request of any 
     Member, any other witness shall be under oath. Every nominee 
     shall submit a financial statement, on forms to be perfected 
     by the Committee, which shall be sworn to by the nominee as 
     to its completeness and accuracy. All such statements shall 
     be made public by the Committee unless the Committee, in 
     executive session, determines that special circumstances 
     require a full or partial exception to this rule.
       (c). Members of the Committee are urged to make public a 
     complete disclosure of their financial interests on forms to 
     be perfected by the Committee in the manner required in the 
     case of Presidential nominees.


                         CONFIDENTIAL TESTIMONY

       Rule 9. No confidential testimony taken by, or confidential 
     material presented to the Committee or any report of the 
     proceedings of a closed Committee hearing or business meeting 
     shall be made public in whole or in part, or by way of 
     summary, unless authorized by a majority of the Members of 
     the Committee at a business meeting called for the purpose of 
     making such a determination.


                         DEFAMATORY STATEMENTS

       Rule 10. Any person whose name is mentioned or who is 
     specifically identified in, or who believes that testimony or 
     other evidence presented at, an open Committee hearing tends 
     to defame him or her or otherwise adversely affect his or her 
     reputation may file with the Committee for its consideration 
     and action a sworn statement of facts relevant to such 
     testimony of evidence.


                  BROADCASTING OF HEARINGS OR MEETINGS

       Rule 11. Any meeting or hearing by the Committee which is 
     open to the public may be covered in whole or in part by 
     television, Internet, radio broadcast, or still photography. 
     Photographers and reporters using mechanical recording, 
     filming, or broadcasting devices shall position their 
     equipment so as not to interfere with the sight, vision, and 
     hearing of Members and staff on the dais or with the orderly 
     process of the meeting or hearing.


                         AUTHORIZING SUBPOENAS

       Rule 12. The Chairman may, with the agreement of the Vice 
     Chairman, or the Committee may, by majority vote, authorize 
     the issuance of subpoenas.


                           AMENDING THE RULES

       Rule 13. These rules may be amended only by a vote of a 
     majority of all the Members of the Committee in a business 
     meeting of the Committee: Provided, that no vote may be taken 
     on any proposed amendment unless such amendment is reproduced 
     in full in the Committee agenda for such meeting at least 
     seven (7) days in advance of such meeting.

                          ____________________



