

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S424-S425]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       COMMERCE COMMITTEE AGENDA AND NEW INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, it is hard to believe, but the Internet as 
we know it is already in its third decade. While it is no longer novel, 
this essential technology continues to transform the world around us in 
often very unexpected ways. Just a few short years ago, the idea of the 
Internet being built into farm equipment would have been unthinkable. 
Yet, today, wireless Internet in tractors and combines is making 
agriculture more and more efficient. This is just one small example of 
how new information technologies have become a fundamental part of our 
economy. There isn't a job creator in America who doesn't have a story 
to tell about how or when he or she realized the Internet had become a 
critical part of his or her business.
  But while the digital economy is creating massive opportunities, our 
Nation's laws are not keeping pace. Over the past several years, 
Netflix and Amazon have completely disrupted the video world. The 
iPhone, which redefined personal computing and connectivity, just 
celebrated its 10th anniversary. Yet most of the government policies 
dealing with video, wireless, and Internet platforms were written for a 
world where none of these things existed. It is a testament to the 
ingenuity of American businesses and entrepreneurs that they have been 
able to adapt and succeed with laws that are increasingly out of date. 
While I don't doubt that they will continue to work around these 
challenges, American companies and consumers deserve better.
  It is past time to modernize our communication laws to facilitate the 
growth of the Internet, and it is high time to update government 
policies to better reflect the innovations made possible by digital 
technologies. As the chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, I have 
committed to modernizing government policies for the digital age, and 
that will be one of our top priorities in the Commerce Committee this 
year.
  One way the government can boost investment in our digital 
infrastructure is by finding ways to make it cheaper and easier to 
build broadband networks. At the Commerce Committee, I introduced 
legislation called the MOBILE NOW Act to ensure that huge swaths of 
wireless spectrum are made available for use by the year 2020. By then, 
we hope to see the next generation of ultra-high speed services known 
as 5G, which will need more spectrum than is available today. The 
MOBILE NOW Act will also cut through much of the bureaucratic redtape 
that makes it difficult to build wireless infrastructure on Federal 
property.
  I am happy to report that the Commerce Committee passed the MOBILE 
NOW Act earlier today, but this legislation is just the start. The 
Commerce Committee will continue to develop legislative proposals to 
spur broadband deployment, make more spectrum available for the public, 
and improve connectivity throughout rural America.
  Good Internet infrastructure policies and investments matter very 
little, however, if government bureaucrats can overregulate the digital 
world. The Federal Communications Commission has long been the main 
government regulator for telecommunications. As we have turned away 
from traditional telecom services and toward new technologies, the FCC 
has found its role gradually diminishing. This is inevitable and a good 
byproduct of technological innovation. But instead of accepting this, 
over the last several years the FCC has aggressively pushed for 
government interference in the Internet. Speaking about new economic 
opportunities on the Internet, the last FCC Chairman declared: 
``Government

[[Page S425]]

is where we will work this out.'' The government is where we will work 
this out? Well, I believe consumers and job creators should be the ones 
deciding about new technologies, not the government. I think most 
Americans would agree.
  Right now, Internet providers are offering innovative service plans 
that allow you to stream video, music, or other content for free. These 
innovative offers are a sign of strong competition in the marketplace. 
Yet, 2 weeks ago, the outgoing FCC issued a report raising what it 
called ``serious concerns'' that such practices ``likely . . . harm 
consumers.'' That is right, it seems the FCC thinks that being able to 
do more online for less money is somehow bad for consumers. Meanwhile, 
consumers themselves seem to strongly disagree because a lot of these 
free data offerings are turning out to be quite popular.
  One of the most important takeaways from the last election is that 
people are tired of bureaucrats trying to micromanage their lives. One 
way we can address this concern is to see how the FCC operates and 
reform what it is allowed to do. The FCC should be focused on fixing 
fundamental problems in the marketplace, not dictating the direction of 
technological progress. The last time Congress passed meaningful laws 
affecting the FCC was when the Internet was in its infancy. It is 
clearly time for the FCC's reform once again.
  At the Commerce Committee, we have had many conversations about 
improving this agency, and I believe this year presents a real 
opportunity to turn those conversations into solutions. I am confident 
that we can attract the bipartisan support that is needed to move 
legislation modernizing the FCC across the Senate floor.
  Another area where I would like to achieve bipartisan agreement is on 
legislation to protect the open Internet. We need clear and reasonable 
rules for the digital road that everyone can understand. Complex and 
ambiguous regulations that shift with the political winds aren't in 
anyone's best interests. For Americans to get the maximum benefit from 
the Internet, they need certainty about what the rules are and, most 
importantly, what the rules will be in the coming years. The only way 
to achieve that is for Congress to pass bipartisan legislation. I have 
been working with my colleagues to find a legislative solution. While 
we are not there yet, I am committed to getting there.
  The Commerce Committee was incredibly productive last year, with 60 
measures enacted into law. We made real progress on Internet-focused 
legislation, including committee approval of the MOBILE NOW Act that I 
mentioned earlier. We will build on that foundation in this Congress. I 
look forward to taking advantage of the good ideas of our committee 
members on both sides of the aisle.
  At the end of the day, it is not, as I said, Congress that is going 
to come up with the best solutions. It will be American innovators and 
entrepreneurs who will determine what the digital future holds, not us 
here in Washington, DC. Government should focus on facilitating their 
success while making sure that we are not accidentally standing in 
their way.
  I am excited to see how the Internet and other emerging technologies 
will continue to change our world in the coming years, and I am eager 
to do my small part to ensure that all Americans benefit from these 
amazing advances.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



