

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2081-H2083]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. TIPTON (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Cole, Mr. 
             Cardenas, and Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico):
       H.R. 1528. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     in order to fulfill the Federal mandate to provide higher 
     educational opportunities for Native American Indians; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SANFORD (for himself and Mr. Meadows):
       H.R. 1529. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of the Treasury 
     from using extraordinary measures to prevent the Government 
     from reaching the statutory debt limit, or using 
     extraordinary measures once such limit has been reached, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Walker, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Sanford, Mr. Babin, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Poe of 
             Texas, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Polis, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             King of New York, Mr. Ross, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Abraham, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Walberg, Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. 
             McHenry, Mr. Beyer, and Mr. Jordan):
       H.R. 1530. A bill to amend securities, commodities, and 
     banking laws to make the information reported to financial 
     regulatory agencies electronically searchable, to enable 
     RegTech applications, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Keating, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Pascrell, and Mr. Pocan):
       H.R. 1531. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the use of funds in the Hazardous 
     Substance Superfund for the purposes for which they were 
     collected, to ensure adequate resources for the cleanup of 
     hazardous substances under the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, Energy and Commerce, and the Budget, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BYRNE (for himself, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. 
             Brooks of Alabama, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, and Mr. 
             Rogers of Alabama):
       H.R. 1532. A bill to reaffirm that certain land has been 
     taken into trust for the benefit of the Poarch Band of Creek 
     Indians, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
       H.R. 1533. A bill to provide for further comprehensive 
     research at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders 
     and Stroke on unruptured intracranial aneurysms; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 1534. A bill to establish a program that provides 
     dislocated workers with a subsidy or coupon that may be 
     applied towards obtaining broadband Internet access service,

[[Page H2082]]

     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ESTY (for herself and Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut):
       H.R. 1535. A bill to amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
     to designate certain segments of the Farmington River and 
     Salmon Brook in the State of Connecticut as components of the 
     National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
       H.R. 1536. A bill to prioritize the payment of pay and 
     allowances to members of the Armed Forces and Federal law 
     enforcement officers in the event the debt ceiling is reached 
     or there is a funding gap; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committees on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, Armed Services, and the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself and Mr. Jordan):
       H.R. 1537. A bill to restore Second Amendment rights in the 
     District of Columbia; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr. Garrett, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Mullin, and Mrs. Hartzler):
       H.R. 1538. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to require 
     the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to minimize 
     infringement on the exercise and enjoyment of property rights 
     in issuing hydropower licenses, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 1539. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize a program for early detection, diagnosis, and 
     treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
     infants, and young children; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. HILL (for himself and Mr. Pittenger):
       H.R. 1540. A bill to help individuals receiving disability 
     insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act 
     obtain rehabilitative services and return to the workforce, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas:
       H.R. 1541. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to acquire certain property related to the Fort 
     Scott National Historic Site in Fort Scott, Kansas, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mrs. Walorski, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Crawford, 
             Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Wenstrup, 
             Mr. Meehan, Mr. Kind, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan 
             of New Mexico, Mr. Yarmuth, and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 1542. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to cover physician services delivered by podiatric 
     physicians to ensure access by Medicaid beneficiaries to 
     appropriate quality foot and ankle care, to amend title XVIII 
     of such Act to modify the requirements for diabetic shoes to 
     be included under Medicare, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Kind):
       H.R. 1543. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to expand 
     tax credit education and training for small businesses that 
     engage in research and development, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Small Business, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Stivers, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Hunter, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Reichert, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Gallagher, and 
             Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1544. A bill to amend the Afghan Allies Protection Act 
     of 2009 to make 2,500 visas available for the Afghan Special 
     Immigrant Visa program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. 
             Wenstrup, Mr. Bergman, and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H.R. 1545. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     disclose certain patient information to State controlled 
     substance monitoring programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 1546. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to establish a methodology for the collection by 
     the Commission of mobile service coverage data; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Schweikert, 
             Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Biggs, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, and Mr. Gallego):
       H.R. 1547. A bill to provide for the unencumbering of title 
     to non-Federal land owned by the city of Tucson, Arizona, for 
     purposes of economic development by conveyance of the Federal 
     reversionary interest to the City; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE:
       H.R. 1548. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to require all political committees to notify the 
     Federal Election Commission within 48 hours of receiving 
     cumulative contributions of $1,000 or more from any 
     contributor during a calendar year, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. PERLMUTTER:
       H.R. 1549. A bill to authorize certain private rights of 
     action under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 for 
     violations that damage certain businesses, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, and Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Kind, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Renacci, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Lance, 
             Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Collins of New 
             York, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Swalwell 
             of California, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. King 
             of New York, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Bost, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Cole, Mr. 
             Walberg, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Goodlatte, Ms. Esty, and Mrs. Walorski):
       H.R. 1550. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase and make permanent the exclusion for 
     benefits provided to volunteer firefighters and emergency 
     medical responders; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RICE of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Marchant, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             Veasey, Mr. Allen, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Wilson 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Byrne, 
             Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Clyburn, 
             Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, 
             Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Gowdy, and 
             Mr. Ferguson):
       H.R. 1551. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the credit for production from advanced 
     nuclear power facilities; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H.R. 1552. A bill to preserve open competition and Federal 
     Government neutrality towards the labor relations of Federal 
     Government contractors on Federal and federally funded 
     construction projects, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio:
       H.R. 1553. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     all United States nationals who voluntarily joined the 
     Canadian and British armed forces and their supporting 
     entities during World War Two, in recognition of their 
     dedicated service; to the Committee on Financial Services, 
     and in addition to the Committee on House Administration, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, and Mr. 
             Mooney of West Virginia):
       H.R. 1554. A bill to include information concerning a 
     patient's opioid addiction in certain medical records; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             McClintock, and Mr. Cardenas):
       H.R. 1555. A bill to restore the integrity of the Fifth 
     Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Ways and 
     Means, and Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.J. Res. 89. A joint resolution to authorize the use of 
     United States Armed Forces against al-Qaeda, the Taliban, the 
     Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, successor organizations, and 
     associated forces; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Brat, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Garrett, Mr. 
             Griffith, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Taylor, and Mr. Wittman):
       H. Con. Res. 33. Concurrent resolution designating the 
     George C. Marshall Museum and

[[Page H2083]]

     George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, Virginia, 
     as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HOLDING (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Diaz-
             Balart, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Nunes, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Mr. Kind, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Sherman, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Sensenbrenner, 
             Mr. Higgins of New York, and Ms. Speier):
       H. Res. 199. A resolution recognizing the self 
     determination of Gibraltar to determine its status as a 
     British Overseas Territory; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.

                          ____________________



