

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           ELECTING OFFICERS OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

  Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS. Mr. Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution 
and ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:

                               H. Res. 1

       Resolved, That Karen L. Haas of the State of Maryland be, 
     and is hereby, chosen Clerk of the House of Representatives;
       That Paul D. Irving of the State of Florida be, and is 
     hereby, chosen Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of 
     Representatives;
       That Philip George Kiko of the State of Ohio be, and is 
     hereby, chosen Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       That Father Patrick J. Conroy of the State of Oregon be, 
     and is hereby, chosen Chaplain of the House of 
     Representatives.

  Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Crowley) for the purpose of offering an amendment.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I have an amendment to the resolution, but 
before offering the amendment, I request that there be a division of 
the question on the resolution so that we may have a separate vote on 
the Chaplain.
  The SPEAKER. The question will be divided.
  The question is on agreeing to that portion of the resolution 
providing for the election of the Chaplain.
  That portion of the resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.


                     Amendment Offered by Mr. Crowley

  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I offer an amendment to the remainder of 
the resolution.
  The SPEAKER. The Clerk will report the amendment.
  The Clerk read as follows:
  Amendment offered by Mr. Crowley:

       That Robert D. Edmonson of the District of Columbia be, and 
     is hereby, chosen Clerk of the House of Representatives;
       That Wyndee Parker of the State of Maryland be, and is 
     hereby, chosen Sergeant-at- Arms of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       That James Fleet of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania be, 
     and is hereby, chosen Chief Administrative Officer of the 
     House of Representatives.

  The SPEAKER. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from New York.
  The amendment was rejected.
  The SPEAKER. The question is on the remainder of the resolution 
offered by the gentlewoman from Washington.
  The remainder of the resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
  The SPEAKER. The Chair will now swear in the officers of the House.
  The officers presented themselves in the well of the House and took 
the oath of office as follows:

       Do you solemnly swear that you will support and defend the 
     Constitution of the United States against all enemies, 
     foreign and domestic; that you will bear true faith and 
     allegiance to the same; that you take this obligation freely, 
     without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and 
     that you will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the 
     office on which you are about to enter, so help you God.

  The SPEAKER. Congratulations.

                          ____________________



