

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S113-S114]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 16

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 16, a bill to require a full 
audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
Federal reserve banks by the Comptroller General of the United States, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 18

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 18, a bill to promote 
freedom, fairness, and economic opportunity by repealing the income tax 
and other taxes, abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, and enacting 
a national sales tax to be administered primarily by the States.


                                 S. 21

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the names of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 21, a bill to amend chapter 8 of title 5, United 
States Code, to provide that major rules of the executive branch shall 
have no force or effect unless a joint resolution of approval is 
enacted into law.


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 27, a bill to establish an independent 
commission

[[Page S114]]

to examine and report on the facts regarding the extent of Russian 
official and unofficial cyber operations and other attempts to 
interfere in the 2016 United States national election, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 30

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 30, a bill to extend the 
civil statute of limitations for victims of Federal sex offenses.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), the 
Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran) and the Senator from West Virginia 
(Mrs. Capito) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 1, a joint 
resolution approving the location of a memorial to commemorate and 
honor the members of the Armed Forces who served on active duty in 
support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield.


                             S. CON. RES. 4

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 4, a 
concurrent resolution clarifying any potential misunderstanding as to 
whether actions taken by President-elect Donald Trump constitute a 
violation of the Emoluments Clause, and calling on President-elect 
Trump to divest his interest in, and sever his relationship to, the 
Trump Organization.


                               S. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 5, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate in support of Israel.


                               S. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski), the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the 
Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 6, a resolution objecting to United Nations 
Security Council Resolution 2334 and to all efforts that undermine 
direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians for a secure 
and peaceful settlement.

                          ____________________



