

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S679-S680]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Grassley, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Reed, Ms. Collins, Mr. Carper, Ms. Cantwell, Ms. 
             Murkowski, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Sanders, 
             Mrs. McCaskill, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Udall, 
             Mr. Warner, Mr. Bennet, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Franken, 
             Mr. Coons, Mr. Portman, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Donnelly, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. King, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Hassan, 
             and Mr. Daines):

[[Page S680]]

  

       S. 298. A bill to require Senate candidates to file 
     designations, statements, and reports in electronic form; to 
     the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 299. A bill to require the appropriation of funds to use 
     a fee, fine, penalty, or proceeds from a settlement received 
     by a Federal agency, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Udall, and Mrs. 
             Gillibrand):
       S. 300. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to require that return information from tax-exempt 
     organizations be made available in a searchable format and to 
     provide the disclosure of the identity of contributors to 
     certain tax-exempt organizations; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Lee, Mr. 
             Cruz, Mr. Moran, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Daines, 
             Mr. Thune, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Risch, Mr. Roberts, Mr. 
             Cassidy, and Mrs. Ernst):
       S. 301. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     prohibit governmental discrimination against providers of 
     health services that are not involved in abortion; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and Mr. Crapo):
       S. 302. A bill to enhance tribal road safety, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Schatz, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Durbin, Ms. Harris, Mr. Merkley, and Mr. Carper):
       S. 303. A bill to discontinue a Federal program that 
     authorizes State and local law enforcement officers to 
     investigate, apprehend, and detain aliens in accordance with 
     a written agreement with the Director of U.S. Immigration and 
     Customs Enforcement and to clarify that immigration 
     enforcement is solely a function of the Federal Government; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 304. A bill to amend the Indian Health Care Improvement 
     Act to allow the Indian Health Service to cover the cost of a 
     copayment of an Indian or Alaska Native veteran receiving 
     medical care or services from the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Indian 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 305. A bill to amend title 4, United States Code, to 
     encourage the display of the flag of the United States on 
     National Vietnam War Veterans Day; considered and passed.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S.J. Res. 20. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to clarify the 
     authority of Congress and the States to regulate 
     corporations, limited liability companies, and other 
     corporate entities established by the laws of any State, the 
     United States, or any foreign state; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. TOOMEY:
       S.J. Res. 21. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental 
     Protection Agency relating to Cross-State Air Pollution Rule 
     Update for the 2008 Ozone NAAQS; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.

                          ____________________



