

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1391-H1392]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Payne, and Mr. 
             Donovan):
       H.R. 1238. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to make the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for 
     Health Affairs responsible for coordinating the efforts of 
     the Department of Homeland Security related to food, 
     agriculture, and veterinary defense against terrorism, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, and 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina (for himself, Mr. Lance, 
             Mr. Crowley, Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Moulton, Mr. Cole, and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 1239. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Defense to 
     make grants to support the study of world languages in 
     elementary schools and secondary schools; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, 
             and Mr. Hunter):
       H.R. 1240. A bill to require a certain percentage of 
     liquefied natural gas and crude oil exports be transported on 
     vessels documented under the laws of the United States, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LaMALFA (for himself, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Jones, 
             Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Panetta, and Ms. 
             Kaptur):
       H.R. 1241. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to require a school food authority to make 
     publicly available any waiver of the Buy American 
     requirement, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Taylor, Mr. 
             McEachin, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Beyer, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Cummings, Ms. Norton, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Kelly 
             of Illinois, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Moore, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Raskin, Mrs. Demings, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Higgins of New York, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Huffman, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Delaney, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 1242. A bill to establish the 400 Years of African-
     American History Commission, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Marino, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Roskam, Mr. Polis, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Himes, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Connolly, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Ms. Barragan, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Rush, Mr. Yarmuth, 
             Mr. Hastings, and Mr. Nolan):
       H.R. 1243. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Defense to use only human-based 
     methods for training members of the Armed Forces in the 
     treatment of severe combat injuries; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Posey, Ms. Norton, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 1244. A bill to clarify the National Credit Union 
     Administration authority to improve credit union safety and 
     soundness; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr. Doggett, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Lee, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Norton, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Langevin, and Mr. 
             Sherman):
       H.R. 1245. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to allow for the importation of affordable and 
     safe drugs by wholesale distributors, pharmacies, and 
     individuals; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself and Ms. 
             Velazquez):
       H.R. 1246. A bill to exempt health insurance of residents 
     of United States territories from the annual fee on health 
     insurance providers; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself and Mr. Clay):
       H.R. 1247. A bill to extend the period of availability of 
     the Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal 
     Stamp, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 1248. A bill to amend the National Security Act of 
     1947 to prohibit individuals who threaten to destroy the 
     Government from participating in or attending meetings of the 
     National Security Council, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Foreign Affairs, Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select), and Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 1249. A bill to amend the Homeland Security of 2002 to 
     require a multiyear acquisition strategy of the Department of 
     Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
       H.R. 1250. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to use the testimonials of former violent extremists 
     or their associates in order to counter terrorist 
     recruitment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Norton, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. Lofgren, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McNerney, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, and Ms. 
             Hanabusa):
       H.R. 1251. A bill to provide for cost-of-living increases 
     for certain Federal benefits programs based on increases in 
     the Consumer Price Index for the elderly; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Veterans' Affairs, Oversight and Government Reform, and Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself and Mr. 
             McCaul):
       H.R. 1252. A bill to amend the Homeland Security of 2002 to 
     provide for certain acquisition authorities for the Under 
     Secretary of Management of the Department of Homeland 
     Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. 
             Murphy of Pennsylvania, and Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas):
       H.R. 1253. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to make loans

[[Page H1392]]

     and loan guarantees for constructing or renovating, or 
     planning construction or renovation of, qualified psychiatric 
     and substance abuse treatment facilities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LoBIONDO:
       H.R. 1254. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program under which eligible 
     veterans may elect to receive hospital care and medical 
     services at non-Department of Veterans Affairs facilities, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, and Mr. 
             Pearce):
       H.R. 1255. A bill to increase research, education, and 
     treatment for cerebral cavernous malformations; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR:
       H.R. 1256. A bill to remove from the John H. Chafee Coastal 
     Barrier Resources System certain properties in New Jersey; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 1257. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require the Securities Exchange Commission to refund 
     or credit excess payments made to the Commission; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 1258. A bill to make technical corrections to the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Bilirakis, 
             Mr. Arrington, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Wenstrup, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Mr. Bost, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. 
             Banks of Indiana, and Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto 
             Rico):
       H.R. 1259. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the removal or demotion of employees of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs based on performance or 
     misconduct, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 1260. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to provide assistance to eligible nonprofit 
     organizations to provide specialized housing and supportive 
     services for elderly persons who are the primary caregivers 
     of children that are related to such persons; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. THORNBERRY:
       H.R. 1261. A bill to clarify the definition of navigable 
     waters, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 1262. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify the tax treatment of certain life insurance 
     contract transactions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. WELCH:
       H.R. 1263. A bill to exclude from the application of 
     Executive Order 13796 certain Iraqi and Afghani special 
     immigrants and refugees, to render certain Afghanis eligible 
     for Priority 2 processing under the refugee resettlement 
     priority system, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS:
       H.R. 1264. A bill to provide an exemption from rules and 
     regulations of the Bureau of Consumer Financial protection 
     for community financial institutions, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
       H. Con. Res. 30. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 75th 
     Anniversary of the establishment of the United States Navy 
     Seabees and the Navy personnel who comprise the construction 
     force for the Navy and the Marine Corps; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Brady of Pennsylvania, and Mrs. Beatty):
       H. Con. Res. 31. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that John Arthur ``Jack'' Johnson should receive 
     a posthumous pardon for the racially motivated conviction in 
     1913 that diminished the athletic, cultural, and historic 
     significance of Jack Johnson and unduly tarnished his 
     reputation; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. Marino, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, and Mr. 
             Peters):
       H. Res. 157. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the last day of February each year, as ``Rare 
     Disease Day''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Kildee, and Mr. Levin):
       H. Res. 158. A resolution celebrating the history of the 
     Detroit River with the 16-year commemoration of the 
     International Underground Railroad Memorial Monument, 
     comprised of the Gateway to Freedom Monument in Detroit, 
     Michigan, and the Tower of Freedom Monument in Windsor, 
     Ontario, Canada; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham 
             of New Mexico, Mr. Walz, and Ms. Plaskett):
       H. Res. 159. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that infrastructure spending bills should 
     include development programs that recruit and train 
     individuals from communities with high unemployment rates; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.

                          ____________________



