

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1017]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       1982 VOTE MACHINE RIGGING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Brooks) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, fake news by the leftist 
Washington Post has gotten even more shrill and more irrational since 
Donald Trump became President.
  At a Republican meeting in Philadelphia, a felony was committed by 
the illegal tape recording and subsequent publication of my private 
conversation with Vice President Mike Pence about voter fraud. The 
Washington Post reported that I said: ``In my first election in 1982, 
Democrats rigged about 25 percent of the voting machines to vote for 
everyone on the ballot but me. That's 11 of 45 machines.''
  Rather than reporting about my being a voter fraud victim or about 
something else I said that a Federal court decree opened the floodgates 
for illegal alien voting, The Washington Post did a partisan fake news 
hit piece and gave me, the voter fraud victim, a four-Pinocchio score 
on truthfulness.
  Mr. Speaker, I proudly wear The Washington Post four Pinocchios like 
a red badge of courage. I know what the truth was. I was there. Here 
are the facts:
  In 1982, I was a Republican candidate in Alabama House District 18 at 
a time when Democrats dominated Alabama. All 31 of Alabama's statewide 
elected officials were Democrats. Democrats held every partisan elected 
office in Alabama's Tennessee Valley.
  On election day, angry voters called me nonstop about rigged voting 
machines that would not allow them to vote for Mo Brooks. As a former 
assistant district attorney, I knew how to conduct an investigation. I 
talked with witnesses. I examined documents. Another attorney did the 
same. When the polls opened, 11 of 45 voting machines registered votes 
for all candidates on the ballot except for Mo Brooks. Not once was my 
opponent or any other candidate blocked on any machine.
  My hometown is the birthplace of America's space program and many of 
America's high-tech weaponry. We know math. Mathematically, if there 
were 26 candidates on the ballot, which there were, and only one name 
is blocked out, the odds of a particular candidate being blocked out 
are 1 in 26. If there are two machines that each has one name blocked 
out, the odds of Mo Brooks being blocked out both times is 1 in 26 
squared, or 1 chance out of 676 chances.
  If there are 11 machines that each have one name blocked out, the 
odds that all 11 blocked names are Mo Brooks are 1 chance in 26 to the 
11th power. Hence, the odds that my name, the only name, was 
accidentally blocked out on 11 different machines, as The Washington 
Post would have you believe, are 1 chance out of 26 to the 11th power, 
or 1 chance out of 3.6 quadrillion chances.
  Conversely, the probability that these 11 voting machines were rigged 
is 3.6 quadrillion to 1. The evidence is overwhelming. There was no 
accident. The voting machines were rigged.
  Who rigged the voting machines?
  In 1982, every single elected official with control over voting 
machines was a Democrat. In 1982, I was campaigning in a hotly 
contested race to be the only Republican legislator in the northern 
third of Alabama. I was the breach in the Democratic Party dam.
  Earlier in the campaign, the Democratic Alabama secretary of State, 
who is now serving hard time in Federal prison, notified me that I 
would be removed from the ballot because my paperwork was allegedly not 
in their files. Fortunately, I had date-stamped copies of the documents 
I filed, thereby forcing the Democrat secretary of State to back off.
  The Democrats had motive. The Democrats had opportunity. The 
Democrats had control. It is fake news for The Washington Post to cover 
up Democratic sins by suggesting otherwise.
  Mr. Speaker, The Washington Post's fake news hit piece begs a broader 
question: Why would The Washington Post even bother to write about an 
election they know nothing about that happened over 34 years ago? The 
answer: partisan paranoia. The Democrats and their media allies like 
The Washington Post are so paranoid and angry about President Trump's 
election that they are shrilly lying and lashing out against anybody, 
anytime, regardless of truth.
  The Washington Post: fake news, sad.
  As a footnote, despite the voter fraud, I won the election with 57 
percent of the vote. In a court-ordered election just 1 year later, 
voters still angry about Democratic voter fraud reelected me with 82 
percent of the vote. That is 25 percentage points higher than when the 
Democrats rigged the voting machines.

                          ____________________



