

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2369-H2370]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 1693. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to add 
     reporting requirements for certain small business concerns, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
             Russell, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Massie, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Comer, Mr. Blum, and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 1694. A bill to require additional entities to be 
     subject to the requirements of section 552 of title 5, United 
     States Code (commonly referred to as the Freedom of 
     Information Act), and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Bass, 
             Mr. Biggs, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Buck, Mr. Chabot, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. 
             Gowdy, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Johnson of Louisiana, Mr. Jordan, Mr. King of Iowa, 
             Mr. Labrador, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Marino, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mrs. 
             Roby, Mr. Sensenbrenner, and Mr. Smith of Texas):
       H.R. 1695. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     provide additional responsibilities for the Register of 
     Copyrights, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 1696. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for S corporation reform, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Zeldin, and 
             Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 1697. A bill to amend the Export Administration Act of 
     1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts against 
     allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
     international governmental organizations against Israel and 
     to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United States to 
     oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             McCarthy, and Mr. Hoyer):
       H.R. 1698. A bill to expand sanctions against Iran with 
     respect to the ballistic missile program of Iran, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Financial Services, the 
     Judiciary, Ways and Means, and Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, and 
             Miss Rice of New York):
       H.R. 1699. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     modify the definitions of a mortgage originator and a high-
     cost mortgage, to amend the Secure and Fair Enforcement for 
     Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 to modify the definition of a 
     loan originator, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself and Mr. Bacon):
       H.R. 1700. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     reauthorize the SCORE program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Bridenstine, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Mr. Jones, Mr. Lance, Mr. McKinley, Mr. 
             Olson, and Mr. Rice of South Carolina):
       H.R. 1701. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds for 
     the costs of painting portraits of officers and employees of 
     the Federal Government; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. EVANS (for himself and Mrs. Radewagen):
       H.R. 1702. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     improve the small business development centers program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 1703. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act with respect to determining the intended use of 
     drugs and devices; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HUDSON:
       H.R. 1704. A bill to improve patient access to health care 
     services and provide improved medical care by reducing the 
     excessive burden the liability system places on the health 
     care delivery system; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr. Collins of Georgia):
       H.R. 1705. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to modify the provisions governing employment of 
     nonimmigrants under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of that Act 
     to prevent the transfer of knowledge from United States 
     workers for the purpose of facilitating their jobs being 
     moved abroad; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 1706. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Education 
     to provide grants for education programs on the history of 
     the treatment of Italian Americans during World War II; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 1707. A bill to apologize for the treatment of Italian 
     Americans during World War II; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Engel, 
             and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 1708. A bill to prohibit the sale of a firearm to, and 
     the purchase of a firearm by, a person who is not covered by 
     appropriate liability insurance coverage; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 1709. A bill to amend title 1, United States Code, to 
     provide for a definition of the term ``State'' and to include 
     territories therein, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself and Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 1710. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to make education affordable and accessible; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Cohen, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Speier, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Evans, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Hastings, 
             and Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 1711. A bill to require the disclosure of certain 
     visitor access records; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mrs. ROBY (for herself, Ms. Titus, Mr. Walz, and Mr. 
             Zeldin):
       H.R. 1712. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a grant program to improve the 
     monitoring of mental health and substance abuse treatment 
     programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. RUSSELL (for himself, Mr. Palmer, and Mr. 
             McClintock):
       H.R. 1713. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     terminate the essential air service program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 1714. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide for the inclusion of unmarried women in the criteria 
     for awarding a grant to a women's business center; to the 
     Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
       H.R. 1715. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to conduct a special resource study of the Medgar 
     Evers House, located in Jackson, Mississippi, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Brown 
             of Maryland, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 1716. A bill to prohibit any hiring freeze from 
     affecting the Environmental Protection Agency; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. Cramer):
       H.R. 1717. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     revise the amount of minimum allotments under the Projects 
     for Assistance in Transition from Homelessness Program; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.J. Res. 91. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States regarding presidential 
     election voting rights for residents of all United States 
     territories and commonwealths; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.

[[Page H2370]]

  

           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H. Con. Res. 39. Concurrent resolution recognizing and 
     commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Virgin Islands of 
     the United States becoming a part of the United States; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Foreign Affairs, and Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Mitchell, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Cramer, and Mr. Gibbs):
       H. Con. Res. 40. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that all direct and indirect subsidies that 
     benefit the production or export of sugar by all major sugar 
     producing and consuming countries should be eliminated; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. Young of Alaska, and Mr. Pearce):
       H. Res. 222. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of May 5, 2017, as ``National Day of Awareness 
     for Missing and Murdered Native Women and Girls''; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Marino, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, 
             and Mr. Bera):
       H. Res. 223. A resolution calling on the People's Republic 
     of China (PRC) to cease its retaliatory measures against the 
     Republic of Korea in response to the deployment of the U.S. 
     Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) to U.S. Forces 
     Korea (USFK), and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS:
       H. Res. 224. A resolution recognizing the 150th Anniversary 
     of Howard University and its contributions to the United 
     States; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H. Res. 225. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives on Trumpcare, also known as the American 
     Health Care Act of 2017; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself and Mr. Conyers):
       H. Res. 226. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding United States efforts to promote 
     Israeli-Palestinian peace; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H. Res. 227. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to permit Delegates and the Resident 
     Commissioner to the Congress to cast votes in the Committee 
     of the Whole House on the state of the Union; to the 
     Committee on Rules.

                          ____________________



