

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H933-H939]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


      RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE FOR THE 115th CONGRESS

                                         House of Representatives,


                                     Committee on Agriculture,

                                 Washington, DC, February 2, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: I am pleased to submit for printing in 
     the Congressional Record, pursuant to Rule XI, clause 2(a) of 
     the Rules of the House, a copy of the Rules of the Committee 
     on Agriculture, which were adopted at the organizational 
     meeting of the Committee on February 1, 2017.
       Appendix A of the Committee Rules will include excerpts 
     from the Rules of the House relevant to the operation of the 
     Committee. Appendix B will include relevant excerpts from the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974. In the interests of 
     minimizing printing costs, Appendices A and B are omitted 
     from this submission.
           Sincerely,
                                               K. Michael Conaway,
                                                         Chairman.

[[Page H934]]

     
                                  ____
                      RULE I.--GENERAL PROVISIONS

       (a) Applicability of House Rules.--(1) The Rules of the 
     House shall govern the procedure of the Committee and its 
     subcommittees, and the Rules of the Committee on Agriculture 
     so far as applicable shall be interpreted in accordance with 
     the Rules of the House, except that a motion to recess from 
     day to day, and a motion to dispense with the first reading 
     (in full) of a bill or resolution, if printed copies are 
     available, are non-debatable privileged motions in the 
     Committee and its subcommittees. (See Appendix A for the 
     applicable Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives.)
       (2) As provided in clause 1(a)(1) of House Rule XI, each 
     Subcommittee is part of the Committee and is subject to the 
     authority and direction of the Committee and its Rules so far 
     as applicable. (See also Committee Rules III, IV, V, VI, VII, 
     VIII and XI, infra.)
       (b) Authority to Conduct Investigations.--The Committee and 
     its subcommittees, after consultation with the Chairman of 
     the Committee, may conduct such investigations and studies as 
     they may consider necessary or appropriate in the exercise of 
     their responsibilities under Rule X of the Rules of the House 
     and in accordance with clause 2(m) of House Rule XI.
       (c) Authority to Print.--The Committee is authorized by the 
     Rules of the House to have printed and bound testimony and 
     other data presented at hearings held by the Committee and 
     its subcommittees. All costs of stenographic services and 
     transcripts in connection with any meeting or hearing of the 
     Committee and its subcommittees shall be paid from applicable 
     accounts of the House described in clause 1(k)(1) of House 
     Rule X in accordance with clause 1(c) of House Rule XI. (See 
     also paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of Committee Rule IX.)
       (d) Vice Chairman.--The Member of the majority party on the 
     Committee or Subcommittee designated by the Chairman of the 
     full Committee shall be the vice chairman of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee in accordance with clause 2(d) of House Rule XI.
       (e) Presiding Member.--If the Chairman of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee is not present at any Committee or Subcommittee 
     meeting or hearing, the vice chairman shall preside. If the 
     Chairman and vice chairman of the Committee or Subcommittee 
     are not present at a Committee or Subcommittee meeting or 
     hearing the ranking Member of the majority party who is 
     present shall preside in accordance with clause 2(d) of House 
     Rule XI.
       (f) Publication of Rules.--The Committee's Rules shall be 
     publicly available in electronic form and published in the 
     Congressional Record not later than 30 days after the Chair 
     is elected in each odd-numbered year as provided in clause 
     2(a) of House Rule XI.
       (g) Joint Committee Reports of Investigation or Study.--A 
     report of an investigation or study conducted jointly by more 
     than one committee may be filed jointly, provided that each 
     of the committees complies independently with all 
     requirements for approval and filing of the report.


 RULE II.--COMMITTEE BUSINESS MEETINGS--REGULAR, ADDITIONAL AND SPECIAL

       (a) Regular Meetings.--Regular meetings of the Committee, 
     in accordance with clause 2(b) of House Rule XI, shall be 
     held on the first Wednesday of every month to transact its 
     business if notice is given pursuant to clause 2(g)(3) of 
     House Rule XI. The Chairman shall provide each Member of the 
     Committee, as far in advance of the day of the regular 
     meeting as practicable, a written agenda of such meeting. 
     Items may be placed on the agenda by the Chairman or a 
     majority of the Committee. (See paragraph (f) of Committee 
     Rule XI for provisions that apply to meetings of 
     subcommittees.)
       (b) Additional Meetings.--(1) The Chairman may call and 
     convene, as he or she considers necessary, which may not 
     commence earlier than the third day on which Members have 
     notice thereof after consultation with the Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee or after concurrence with the Ranking 
     Minority Member, additional meetings of the Committee for the 
     consideration of any bill or resolution pending before the 
     Committee or for the conduct of other Committee business. The 
     Committee shall meet for such additional meetings pursuant to 
     the notice from the Chairman.
       (2) A hearing or meeting may begin sooner than specified in 
     clause (1) (in which case, the chair shall make the 
     announcement specified at the earliest possible time) if the 
     Committee so determines by majority vote in the presence of 
     the number of Members required under the Rules of the 
     Committee for the transaction of business.
       (3) At least 24 hours prior to the commencement of a 
     meeting for the markup of a measure or matter the Chair shall 
     cause the text of such measure or matter to be made publicly 
     available in electronic form.
       (c) Special Meetings.--If at least three Members of the 
     Committee desire that a special meeting of the Committee be 
     called by the Chairman, those Members may file in the offices 
     of the Committee their written request to the Chairman for 
     such special meeting. Such request shall specify the measure 
     or matters to be considered. Immediately upon the filing of 
     the request, the Majority Staff Director (serving as the 
     clerk of the Committee for such purpose) shall notify the 
     Chairman of the filing of the request. If, within 3 calendar 
     days after the filing of the request, the Chairman does not 
     call the requested special meeting to be held within 7 
     calendar days after the filing of the request, a majority of 
     the Members of the Committee may file in the offices of the 
     Committee their written notice that a special meeting of the 
     Committee will be held, specifying the date and hour thereof, 
     and the measures or matter to be considered at that special 
     meeting in accordance with clause 2(c)(2) of House Rule XI. 
     The Committee shall meet on that date and hour. Immediately 
     upon the filing of the notice, the Majority Staff Director 
     (serving as the clerk) of the Committee shall notify all 
     Members of the Committee that such meeting will be held and 
     inform them of its date and hour and the measure or matter to 
     be considered, and only the measure or matter specified in 
     that notice may be considered at that special meeting.


          RULE III.--OPEN MEETINGS AND HEARINGS; BROADCASTING

       (a) Open Meetings and Hearings.--Each meeting for the 
     transaction of business, including the markup of legislation, 
     and each hearing by the Committee or a Subcommittee shall be 
     open to the public unless closed in accordance with clause 
     2(g) of House Rule XI.
       (b) Broadcasting and Photography.--Whenever a Committee or 
     Subcommittee meeting for the transaction of business, 
     including the markup of legislation, or a hearing is open to 
     the public, that meeting or hearing shall:
       (1) To the maximum extent practicable the Committee shall 
     provide audio and video coverage of each hearing or meeting 
     for the transaction of business in a manner that allows the 
     public to easily listen to and view the proceedings and shall 
     maintain the recordings of such coverage in a manner that is 
     easily accessible to the public.
       (2) Be open to coverage by television, radio, and still 
     photography in accordance with clause 4 of House Rule XI. 
     When such audio and visual coverage is conducted in the 
     Committee or Subcommittee, written notice to that effect 
     shall be provided to each Member. The Chairman of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee shall not limit the number of 
     television or still cameras permitted in a hearing or 
     meeting room to fewer than two representatives from each 
     medium (except for legitimate space or safety 
     considerations, in which case pool coverage shall be 
     authorized).
       (c) Closed Meetings--Attendees.--No person other than 
     Members of the Committee or Subcommittee and such 
     congressional staff and departmental representatives as the 
     Committee or Subcommittee may authorize shall be present at 
     any business or markup session that has been closed to the 
     public as provided in clause 2(g)(1) of House Rule XI.
       (d) Addressing the Committee.--A Committee Member may 
     address the Committee or a Subcommittee on any bill, motion, 
     or other matter under consideration (See Committee Rule VIII 
     (e) relating to questioning a witness at a hearing). The time 
     a Member may address the Committee or Subcommittee for any 
     such purpose shall be limited to 5 minutes, except that this 
     time limit may be waived by unanimous consent. A Member shall 
     also be limited in his or her remarks to the subject matter 
     under consideration, unless the Member receives unanimous 
     consent to extend his or her remarks beyond such subject.
       (e) Meetings to Begin Promptly.--Subject to the presence of 
     a quorum, each meeting or hearing of the Committee and its 
     subcommittees shall begin promptly at the time so stipulated 
     in the public announcement of the meeting or hearing.
       (f) Prohibition on Proxy Voting.--No vote by any Member of 
     the Committee or Subcommittee with respect to any measure or 
     matter may be cast by proxy.
       (g) Location of Persons at Meetings.--No person other than 
     the Committee or Subcommittee Members and Committee or 
     Subcommittee staff may be seated in the rostrum area during a 
     meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee unless by unanimous 
     consent of Committee or Subcommittee.
       (h) Consideration of Amendments and Motions.--A Member, 
     upon request, shall be recognized by the Chairman to address 
     the Committee or Subcommittee at a meeting for a period 
     limited to 5 minutes on behalf of an amendment or motion 
     offered by the Member or another Member, or upon any other 
     matter under consideration, unless the Member receives 
     unanimous consent to extend the time limit. Every amendment 
     or motion made in Committee or Subcommittee shall, upon the 
     demand of any Member present, be reduced to writing, and a 
     copy thereof shall be made available to all Members present. 
     Such amendment or motion shall not be pending before the 
     Committee or Subcommittee or voted on until the requirements 
     of this paragraph have been met.
       (i) Demanding Record Vote.--
       (1) A record vote of the Committee or Subcommittee on a 
     question or action shall be ordered on a demand by one-fifth 
     of the Members present.
       (2) The Chairman of the Committee or Subcommittee may 
     postpone further proceedings when a record vote is ordered on 
     the question of approving a measure or matter or on adopting 
     an amendment. If the Chairman postpones further proceedings:
       (A) the Chairman may resume such postponed proceedings, 
     after giving Members adequate notice, at a time chosen in 
     consultation with the Ranking Minority Member; and
       (B) notwithstanding any intervening order for the previous 
     question, the underlying

[[Page H935]]

     proposition on which proceedings were postponed shall remain 
     subject to further debate or amendment to the same extent as 
     when the question was postponed.
       (j) Submission of Motions or Amendments In Advance of 
     Business Meetings.--The Committee and Subcommittee Chairman 
     may request and Committee and Subcommittee Members should, 
     insofar as practicable, cooperate in providing copies of 
     proposed amendments or motions to the Chairman and the 
     Ranking Minority Member of the Committee or the Subcommittee 
     twenty-four hours before a Committee or Subcommittee business 
     meeting.
       (k) Points of Order.--No point of order against the hearing 
     or meeting procedures of the Committee or Subcommittee shall 
     be entertained unless it is made in a timely fashion.
       (l) Limitation on Committee Sittings.--The Committee or 
     subcommittees may not sit during a joint session of the House 
     and Senate or during a recess when a joint meeting of the 
     House and Senate is in progress.
       (m) Prohibition of Wireless Telephones.--Use of wireless 
     phones during a Committee or Subcommittee hearing or meeting 
     is prohibited.


                           RULE IV.--QUORUMS.

       (a) Working Quorum.--One-third of the Members of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for 
     taking any action, other than as noted in paragraphs (b) and 
     (c).
       (b) Majority Quorum.--A majority of the Members of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for:
       (1) the reporting of a bill, resolution, or other measure 
     (See clause 2(h)(1) of House Rule XI, and Committee Rule IX);
       (2) the closing of a meeting or hearing to the public 
     pursuant to clauses 2(g), 2(k)(5), and 2(k)(7) of House Rule 
     XI;
       (3) the authorizing of a subpoena as provided in clause 
     2(m)(3) of House Rule XI (See also Committee Rule VII); and
       (4) as where required by a Rule of the House.
       (c) Quorum for Taking Testimony.--Two Members of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for the 
     purpose of taking testimony and receiving evidence.


                           RULE V.--RECORDS.

       (a) Maintenance of Records.--The Committee shall keep a 
     complete record of all Committee and Subcommittee action 
     which shall include:
       (1) in the case of any meeting or hearing transcripts, a 
     substantially verbatim account of remarks actually made 
     during the proceedings, subject only to technical, 
     grammatical, and typographical corrections authorized by the 
     person making the remarks involved, and
       (2) written minutes, which shall include a record of all 
     Committee and Subcommittee action, a record of all votes on 
     any question, and a tally on all record votes.
       The result of each such record vote shall be made available 
     by the Committee for inspection by the public at reasonable 
     times in the offices of the Committee and by telephone 
     request and also made publicly available in electronic form 
     within 48 hours of such record vote. Not later than 24 hours 
     after adoption of an amendment to a measure or matter, the 
     chair of the Committee shall cause the text of such amendment 
     adopted thereto to be made publicly available in electronic 
     form. Information so available for public inspection shall 
     include a description of the amendment, motion, order, or 
     other proposition; the name of each Member voting for and 
     each Member voting against such amendment, motion, order, or 
     other proposition; and the names of those Members present but 
     not voting.
       (b) Access to and Correction of Records.--Any public 
     witness, or person authorized by such witness, during 
     Committee office hours in the Committee offices and within 10 
     calendar days of the close of hearings, may obtain a 
     transcript copy of that public witness's testimony and make 
     such technical, grammatical, and typographical corrections as 
     authorized by the person making the remarks involved as will 
     not alter the nature of testimony given. There shall be 
     prompt return of such corrected copy of the transcript to the 
     Committee. Members of the Committee or Subcommittee shall 
     receive copies of transcripts for their prompt review and 
     correction and prompt return to the Committee. The Committee 
     or Subcommittee may order the printing of a hearing record 
     without the corrections of any Member or witness if it 
     determines that such Member or witness has been afforded a 
     reasonable time in which to make such corrections and further 
     delay would seriously impede the consideration of the 
     legislative action that is subject of the hearing. The record 
     of a hearing shall be closed 10 calendar days after the last 
     oral testimony, unless the Committee or Subcommittee 
     determines otherwise. Any person requesting to file a 
     statement for the record of a hearing must so request before 
     the hearing concludes and must file the statement before the 
     record is closed, unless the Committee or Subcommittee 
     determines otherwise. The Committee or Subcommittee may 
     reject any statement in light of its length or its tendency 
     to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person.
       (c) Property of the House.--All Committee and Subcommittee 
     records (including hearings data, charts, and files) shall be 
     kept separate and distinct from the congressional office 
     records of the Members serving as Chairman. Such records 
     shall be the property of the House, and all Members of the 
     House shall have access thereto. The Majority Staff Director 
     shall promptly notify the Chairman and the Ranking Minority 
     Member of any request for access to such records.
       (d) Availability of Archived Records.--The records of the 
     Committee at the National Archives and Records Administration 
     shall be made available for public use in accordance with 
     House Rule VII. The Chairman shall notify the Ranking 
     Minority Member of the Committee of the need for a Committee 
     order pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or clause 4(b) of such House 
     Rule, to withhold a record otherwise available.
       (e) Special Rules for Certain Records and Proceedings.--A 
     stenographic record of a business meeting of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee may be kept, and thereafter may be published, if 
     the Chairman of the Committee, after consultation with the 
     Ranking Minority Member, determines there is need for such a 
     record. The proceedings of the Committee or Subcommittee in a 
     closed meeting, evidence or testimony in such meeting, shall 
     not be divulged unless otherwise determined by a majority of 
     the Committee or Subcommittee.
       (f) Electronic Availability of Committee Publications.--To 
     the maximum extent feasible, the Committee shall make its 
     publications available in electronic form.


                    RULE VI.--POWER TO SIT AND ACT.

       For the purpose of carrying out any of its function and 
     duties under House Rules X and XI, the Committee and each of 
     its subcommittees is authorized to sit and act at such times 
     and places within the United States whether the House is in 
     session, has recessed, or has adjourned and to hold such 
     hearings.


                    RULE VII.--SUBPOENAS AND OATHS.

       (a) Issuance of Subpoenas.--In accordance with clause 2(m) 
     of House Rule XI, a subpoena may be authorized and issued by 
     a majority of the Committee or by the Chairman in 
     consultation with the Ranking Minority Member. Such 
     consultation shall occur at least 48 hours in advance of a 
     subpoena being issued under such authority. Authorized 
     subpoenas shall be signed by the Chairman of the Committee or 
     by any Member designated by the Committee.
       (b) Oaths.--The Chairman of the Committee, or any member of 
     the Committee designated by the Chairman, may administer 
     oaths to any witnesses.


                    RULE VIII.--HEARING PROCEDURES.

       (a) Power to Hear.--For the purpose of carrying out any of 
     its functions and duties under House Rules X and XI, the 
     Committee and its subcommittees are authorized to sit and 
     hold hearings at any time or place within the United States 
     whether the House is in session, has recessed, or has 
     adjourned. (See Committee Rule VI and paragraph (f) of 
     Committee Rule XI for provisions relating to Subcommittee 
     hearings and meetings.)
       (b) Announcement.--The Chairman of the Committee shall, 
     after consultation with the Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Committee, make a public announcement of the date, place, and 
     subject matter of any Committee hearing at least 1 week 
     before the commencement of the hearing. The Chairman of a 
     Subcommittee shall schedule a hearing only after consultation 
     with the Chairman of the Committee and the Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Subcommittee. After such consultation, the 
     Chairman of the Subcommittee shall consult the Chairmen of 
     the other subcommittees and shall request the Majority Staff 
     Director to make a public announcement of the date, place, 
     and subject matter of such hearing at least 1 week before the 
     hearing. If the Chairman of the Committee or the 
     Subcommittee, with concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member 
     of the Committee or Subcommittee, determines there is good 
     cause to begin the hearing sooner, or if the Committee or 
     Subcommittee so determines by majority vote, a quorum being 
     present for the transaction of business, the Chairman of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee, as appropriate, shall request the 
     Majority Staff Director to make such public announcement at 
     the earliest possible date. The clerk of the Committee shall 
     promptly notify the Daily Digest Clerk of the Congressional 
     Record and shall promptly enter the appropriate information 
     into the Committee scheduling service of the House 
     Information Systems as soon as possible after such public 
     announcement is made.
       (c) Scheduling of Witnesses.--Except as otherwise provided 
     in this rule, the scheduling of witnesses and determination 
     of the time allowed for the presentation of testimony at 
     hearings shall be at the discretion of the Chairman of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee, unless a majority of the Committee 
     or Subcommittee determines otherwise.
       (d) Written Statement; Oral Testimony.--(1) Each witness 
     who is to appear before the Committee or a Subcommittee, 
     shall insofar as practicable file with the Majority Staff 
     Director of the Committee, at least 2 working days before the 
     day of his or her appearance, a written statement of proposed 
     testimony. Witnesses shall provide sufficient copies of their 
     statement for distribution to Committee or Subcommittee 
     Members, staff, and the news media. Insofar as practicable, 
     the Committee or Subcommittee staff shall distribute such 
     written statements to all Members of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee as soon as they are received, as well as any 
     official reports from departments and agencies on such 
     subject matter. All witnesses may be limited in their oral 
     presentations to

[[Page H936]]

     brief summaries of their statements within the time allotted 
     to them at the discretion of the Chairman of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee, in light of the nature of the testimony and the 
     length of time available.
       (2) As noted in paragraph (b) of Committee Rule VII, the 
     Chairman of the Committee, or any Member designated by the 
     Chairman, may administer an oath to any witness.
       (3) To the greatest extent practicable, each witness 
     appearing in a non-governmental capacity shall include with 
     the written statement of proposed testimony:
       (i) a curriculum vitae;
       (ii) disclosure of the amount and source (by agency and 
     program) of any Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) or 
     contract (or subcontract thereof) received during the current 
     calendar year or either of the 2 preceding calendar years by 
     the witness or by an entity represented by the witness; and
       (iii) disclosure of the amount and country of origin of any 
     payment or contract related to the subject matter of the 
     hearing originating with a foreign government received during 
     the current calendar year or either of the 2 preceding 
     calendar years by the witness or by an entity represented by 
     the witness.
       Such statements, with appropriate redactions to protect the 
     privacy of witnesses, shall be made publicly available in 
     electronic form not later than 1 day after the witness 
     appears.
       (e) Questioning of Witnesses.--Committee or Subcommittee 
     Members may question witnesses only when they have been 
     recognized by the Chairman of the Committee or Subcommittee 
     for that purpose. Each Member so recognized shall be limited 
     to questioning a witness for 5 minutes until such time as 
     each Member of the Committee or Subcommittee who so desires 
     has had an opportunity to question the witness for 5 minutes; 
     and thereafter the Chairman of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee may limit the time of a further round of 
     questioning after giving due consideration to the 
     importance of the subject matter and the length of time 
     available. All questions put to witnesses shall be germane 
     to the measure or matter under consideration. Unless a 
     majority of the Committee or Subcommittee determines 
     otherwise, no Committee or Subcommittee staff shall 
     interrogate witnesses.
       (f) Extended Questioning for Designated Members.--
     Notwithstanding paragraph (e), the Chairman and Ranking 
     Minority Member may designate an equal number of Members from 
     each party to question a witness for a period not longer than 
     60 minutes.
       (g) Witnesses for the Minority.--When any hearing is 
     conducted by the Committee or any Subcommittee upon any 
     measure or matter, the minority party Members on the 
     Committee or Subcommittee shall be entitled, upon request to 
     the Chairman by a majority of those minority Members before 
     the completion of such hearing, to call witnesses selected by 
     the minority to testify with respect to that measure or 
     matter during at least 1 day of hearing thereon as provided 
     in clause 2(j)(1) of House Rule XI.
       (h) Summary of Subject Matter.--Upon announcement of a 
     hearing, to the extent practicable, the Committee shall make 
     available immediately to all Members of the Committee a 
     concise summary of the subject matter (including legislative 
     reports and other material) under consideration. In addition, 
     upon announcement of a hearing and subsequently as they are 
     received, the Chairman of the Committee or Subcommittee 
     shall, to the extent practicable, make available to the 
     Members of the Committee any official reports from 
     departments and agencies on such matter. (See paragraph(f) of 
     Committee Rule XI.)
       (i) Open Hearings.--Each hearing conducted by the Committee 
     or Subcommittee shall be open to the public, including radio, 
     television, and still photography coverage, except as 
     provided in clause 4 of House Rule XI (See also paragraph (b) 
     of Committee Rule III.). In any event, no Member of the House 
     may be excluded from nonparticipatory attendance at any 
     hearing unless the House by majority vote shall authorize the 
     Committee or Subcommittee, for purposes of a particular 
     series of hearings on a particular bill or resolution or on a 
     particular subject of investigation, to close its hearings to 
     Members by means of the above procedure.
       (j) Hearings and Reports.--(1)(i) The Chairman of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee at a hearing shall announce in an 
     opening statement the subject of the investigation. A copy of 
     the Committee Rules (and the applicable provisions of clause 
     2 of House Rule XI, regarding hearing procedures, an excerpt 
     of which appears in Appendix A thereto) shall be made 
     available to each witness upon request. Witnesses at hearings 
     may be accompanied by their own counsel for the purpose of 
     advising them concerning their constitutional rights. The 
     Chairman of the Committee or Subcommittee may punish breaches 
     of order and decorum, and of professional ethics on the part 
     of counsel, by censure and exclusion from the hearings; but 
     only the full Committee may cite the offender to the House 
     for contempt.
       (ii) Whenever it is asserted by a Member of the Committee 
     that the evidence or testimony at a hearing may tend to 
     defame, degrade, or incriminate any person, or it is asserted 
     by a witness that the evidence or testimony that the witness 
     would give at a hearing may tend to defame, degrade, or 
     incriminate the witness, such testimony or evidence shall be 
     presented in executive session, notwithstanding the 
     provisions of paragraph (i) of this rule, if by a majority of 
     those present, there being in attendance the requisite number 
     required under the Rules of the Committee to be present for 
     the purpose of taking testimony, the Committee or 
     Subcommittee determines that such evidence or testimony may 
     tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person. The 
     Committee or Subcommittee shall afford a person an 
     opportunity voluntarily to appear as a witness; and the 
     Committee or Subcommittee shall receive and shall dispose of 
     requests from such person to subpoena additional witnesses.
       (iii) No evidence or testimony taken in executive session 
     may be released or used in public sessions without the 
     consent of the Committee or Subcommittee. In the discretion 
     of the Committee or Subcommittee, witnesses may submit brief 
     and pertinent statements in writing for inclusion in the 
     record. The Committee or Subcommittee is the sole judge of 
     the pertinence of testimony and evidence adduced at its 
     hearings. A witness may obtain a transcribed copy of his or 
     her testimony given at a public session. If given at an 
     executive session, a transcribed copy of testimony may be 
     obtained when authorized by the Committee or Subcommittee. 
     (See paragraph (c) of Committee Rule V.)
       (2) A proposed investigative or oversight report shall be 
     considered as read if it has been available to the Members of 
     the Committee for at least 24 hours (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, or legal holidays except when the House is in 
     session on such day) in advance of their consideration.

            RULE IX--THE REPORTING OF BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

       (a) Filing of Reports.--The Chairman shall report or cause 
     to be reported promptly to the House any bill, resolution, or 
     other measure approved by the Committee and shall take or 
     cause to be taken all necessary steps to bring such bill, 
     resolution, or other measure to a vote. No bill, resolution, 
     or measure shall be reported from the Committee unless a 
     majority of the Committee is actually present. A Committee 
     report on any bill, resolution, or other measure approved by 
     the Committee shall be filed within 7 calendar days (not 
     counting days on which the House is not in session) after the 
     day on which there has been filed with the Majority Staff 
     Director of the Committee a written request, signed by a 
     majority of the Committee, for the reporting of that bill 
     or resolution. The Majority Staff Director of the 
     Committee shall notify the Chairman immediately when such 
     a request is filed.
       (b) Content of Reports.--Each Committee report on any bill 
     or resolution approved by the Committee shall include as 
     separately identified sections:
       (1) a statement of the intent or purpose of the bill or 
     resolution;
       (2) a statement describing the need for such bill or 
     resolution;
       (3) a statement of Committee and Subcommittee consideration 
     of the measure, including a summary of amendments and motions 
     offered and the actions taken thereon;
       (4) the results of each record vote on any amendment in the 
     Committee and Subcommittee and on the motion to report the 
     measure or matter, including the total number of votes cast 
     for and against, and the names of Members voting for and 
     against such amendment or motion (See clause 3(b) of House 
     Rule XIII);
       (5) the oversight findings and recommendations of the 
     Committee with respect to the subject matter of the bill or 
     resolution, as required pursuant to clause 3(c)(1) of House 
     Rule XIII and clause 2(b)(1) of House Rule X;
       (6) the detailed statement described in House Rule XIII 
     clause 3(c)(2) and section 308(a) of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974 if the bill or resolution provides new budget 
     authority (other than continuing appropriations), new 
     spending authority described in section 401(c)(2) of such 
     Act, new credit authority, or an increase or decrease in 
     revenues or tax expenditures, except that the estimates with 
     respect to new budget authority shall include, when 
     practicable, a comparison of the total estimated funding 
     level for the relevant program (or programs) to the 
     appropriate levels under current law;
       (7) the estimate of costs and comparison of such estimates, 
     if any, prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
     Office in connection with such bill or resolution pursuant to 
     section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 if 
     submitted in timely fashion to the Committee;
       (8) a statement of general performance goals and 
     objectives, including outcome-related goals and objectives, 
     for which the measure authorizes funding;
       (9) an estimate by the Committee of the costs that would be 
     incurred in carrying out the bill or joint resolution in the 
     fiscal year in which it is reported and in each of the five 
     fiscal years following that fiscal year (or for the 
     authorized duration of any program authorized by the bill or 
     joint resolution if less than five years) (see clause 3(d)(1) 
     of House Rule XIII), together with--(i) a comparison of these 
     estimates with those made and submitted to the Committee by 
     any Government agency when practicable and (ii) a comparison 
     of the total estimated funding level for the relevant program 
     (or programs) with appropriate levels under current law (The 
     provisions of this clause do not apply if a cost estimate and 
     comparison prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
     Budget Office under section 402 of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974 has been timely submitted prior to the filing of 
     the report and included in the report);

[[Page H937]]

       (10) a list of congressional earmarks, limited tax 
     benefits, and limited tariff benefits in the bill or in the 
     report (and the name of any Member, Delegate, or Resident 
     Commissioner who submitted a request to the Committee for 
     each respective item included in such list) or a statement 
     that the proposition contains no congressional earmarks, 
     limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits;
       (11) the changes in existing law (if any) shown in 
     accordance with clause 3 of House Rule XIII;
       (12) the determination required pursuant to section 5(b) of 
     P.L. 92-463, if the legislation reported establishes or 
     authorizes the establishment of an advisory committee;
       (13) the information on Federal and intergovernmental 
     mandates required by section 423(c) and (d) of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as added by the Unfunded 
     Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (P.L. 104-4);
       (14) a statement regarding the applicability of section 
     102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (P.L. 104-
     1);
       (15) a statement indicating whether any provision of the 
     measure establishes or reauthorizes a program of the Federal 
     Government known to be duplicative of another Federal 
     program. The Statement shall at a minimum explain whether--
       (A) any such program was included in any report from the 
     Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
     section 21 of P.L. 111-139; or
       (B) the most recent catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, 
     published pursuant to the Federal Program Information Act 
     (P.L. 95-220, as amended by P.L. 98-169), identified other 
     programs related to the program established or reauthorized 
     by the measure; and
       (16) a statement estimating the number of directed rule 
     makings required by the measure.
       (c) Supplemental, Minority, Additional, or Dissenting 
     Views.--If, at the time of approval of any measure or matter 
     by the Committee, any Member of the Committee gives notice of 
     intention to file supplemental, minority, additional, or 
     dissenting views, all Members shall be entitled to not less 
     than 2 subsequent calendar days (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, and legal holidays except when the House is in 
     session on such date) in which to file such writing and 
     signed views with the Majority Staff Director of the 
     Committee. When time guaranteed by this paragraph has expired 
     (or, if sooner, when all separate views have been received), 
     the Committee may arrange to file its report with the Clerk 
     of the House not later than 1 hour after the expiration of 
     such time. All such views (in accordance with clause 2(l) of 
     House Rule XI and clause 3(a)(1) of House Rule XIII), as 
     filed by one or more Members of the Committee, shall be 
     included within and made a part of the report filed by the 
     Committee with respect to that bill or resolution.
       (d) Printing of Reports.--The report of the Committee on 
     the measure or matter noted in paragraph (a) above shall be 
     printed in a single volume, which shall:
       (1) include all supplemental, minority, additional, or 
     dissenting views that have been submitted by the time of the 
     filing of the report; and
       (2) bear on its cover a recital that any such supplemental, 
     minority, additional, or dissenting views (and any material 
     submitted under clause 3(a)(1) of House Rule XII) are 
     included as part of the report.
       (e) Immediate Printing; Supplemental Reports.--Nothing in 
     this rule shall preclude--
       (1) the immediate filing or printing of a Committee report 
     unless timely request for the opportunity to file 
     supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views has 
     been made as provided by paragraph (c); or
       (2) the filing by the Committee of any supplemental report 
     on any bill or resolution that may be required for the 
     correction of any technical error in a previous report made 
     by the Committee on that bill or resolution.
       (f) Availability of Printed Hearing Records.--If hearings 
     have been held on any reported bill or resolution, the 
     Committee shall make every reasonable effort to have the 
     record of such hearings printed and available for 
     distribution to the Members of the House prior to the 
     consideration of such bill or resolution by the House. Each 
     printed hearing of the Committee or any of its subcommittees 
     shall include a record of the attendance of the Members.
       (g) Committee Prints.--All Committee or Subcommittee prints 
     or other Committee or Subcommittee documents, other than 
     reports or prints of bills, that are prepared for public 
     distribution shall be approved by the Chairman of the 
     Committee or the Committee prior to public distribution.
       (h) Post Adjournment Filing of Committee Reports.--(1) 
     After an adjournment of the last regular session of a 
     Congress sine die, an investigative or oversight report 
     approved by the Committee may be filed with the Clerk at any 
     time, provided that if a Member gives notice at the time of 
     approval of intention to file supplemental, minority, 
     additional, or dissenting views, that Member shall be 
     entitled to not less than 7 calendar days in which to submit 
     such views for inclusion with the report.
       (2) After an adjournment of the last regular session of a 
     Congress sine die, the Chairman of the Committee may file at 
     any time with the Clerk the Committee's activity report for 
     that Congress pursuant to clause 1(d)(1) of House Rule XI 
     without the approval of the Committee, provided that a copy 
     of the report has been available to each Member of the 
     Committee for at least 7 calendar days and the report 
     includes any supplemental, minority, additional, or 
     dissenting views submitted by a Member of the Committee.
       (i) Conference.--The Chairman is directed to offer a motion 
     under clause 1 of House Rule XXII whenever the Chairman 
     considers it appropriate.


                  RULE X.--OTHER COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES

       (a) Authorization and Oversight Plan.--(1) Not later than 
     February 15 of the first session of a Congress, the Chairman 
     shall convene the Committee in a meeting that is open to the 
     public to adopt its authorization and oversight plan for that 
     Congress. Such plan shall be submitted simultaneously to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, to the 
     Committee on House Administration, and the Committee on 
     Appropriations.
       (2) Each such plan shall include, with respect to programs 
     and agencies within the committee's jurisdiction, and to the 
     maximum extent practicable--
       (A) a list of such programs or agencies with lapsed 
     authorizations that received funding in the prior fiscal year 
     or, in the case of a program or agency with a permanent 
     authorization, which has not been subject to a comprehensive 
     review by the Committee in the prior three Congresses;
       (B) a description of each such program or agency to be 
     authorized in the current Congress;
       (C) a description of each such program or agency to be 
     authorized in the next Congress, if applicable;
       (D) a description of any oversight to support the 
     authorization of each such program or agency in the current 
     Congress; and
       (E) recommendations for changes to existing law for moving 
     such programs or agencies from mandatory funding to 
     discretionary appropriations, where appropriate.
       (3) Each such plan may include, with respect to the 
     programs and agencies within the Committee's jurisdiction,--
       (A) recommendations for the consolidation or termination of 
     such programs or agencies that are duplicative, unnecessary, 
     or inconsistent with the appropriate roles and 
     responsibilities of the Federal Government;
       (B) recommendations for changes to existing law related to 
     Federal rules, regulations, statutes, and court decisions 
     affecting such programs and agencies that are inconsistent 
     with the authorities of the Congress under Article I of the 
     Constitution; and
       (C) a description of such other oversight activities as the 
     Committee may consider necessary.
       (4) In the development of such plan, the Chairman of the 
     Committee shall coordinate with other committees of 
     jurisdiction to ensure that programs and agencies are subject 
     to routine, comprehensive authorization efforts.
       The Committee and its appropriate subcommittees shall 
     review and study, on a continuing basis, the impact or 
     probable impact of tax policies affecting subjects within its 
     jurisdiction as provided in clause 2(c) of House Rule X. The 
     Committee shall include in the report filed pursuant to 
     clause 1(d) of House Rule XI separate sections summarizing 
     the legislative and oversight activities of the Committee 
     under House Rule X and House Rule XI, a summary of the 
     authorization and oversight plan submitted by the Committee 
     under clause 2(d) of House Rule X, a summary of actions taken 
     and recommendations made with respect to the oversight and 
     authorization plan, and a summary of any additional oversight 
     activities undertaken by the Committee and any 
     recommendations made or actions taken thereon.
       (b) Annual Appropriations.--The Committee shall, in its 
     consideration of all bills and joint resolutions of a public 
     character within its jurisdiction, ensure that appropriations 
     for continuing programs and activities of the Federal 
     government and the District of Columbia government will be 
     made annually to the maximum extent feasible and consistent 
     with the nature, requirements, and objectives of the programs 
     and activities involved. The Committee shall review, from 
     time to time, each continuing program within its jurisdiction 
     for which appropriations are not made annually in order to 
     ascertain whether such program could be modified so that 
     appropriations therefor would be made annually.
       (c) Budget Act Compliance: Views and Estimates (See 
     Appendix B).--Not later than 6 weeks after the President 
     submits his budget under section 1105(a) of Title 31, United 
     States Code, or at such time as the Committee on the Budget 
     may request, the Committee shall, submit to the Committee on 
     the Budget (1) its views and estimates with respect to all 
     matters to be set forth in the concurrent resolution on the 
     budget for the ensuing fiscal year (under section 301 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974) that are within its 
     jurisdiction or functions; and (2) an estimate of the total 
     amounts of new budget authority, and budget outlays resulting 
     therefrom, to be provided or authorized in all bills and 
     resolutions within its jurisdiction that it intends to be 
     effective during that fiscal year.
       (d) Budget Act Compliance: Recommended Changes.--Whenever 
     the Committee is directed in a concurrent resolution on the 
     budget to determine and recommend changes in laws, bills, or 
     resolutions under the reconciliation process, it shall 
     promptly make such determination and recommendations

[[Page H938]]

     and report a reconciliation bill or resolution (or both) to 
     the House or submit such recommendations to the Committee on 
     the Budget, in accordance with the Congressional Budget Act 
     of 1974.
       (e) Conference Committees.--Whenever in the legislative 
     process it becomes necessary to appoint conferees, the 
     Chairman shall, after consultation with the Ranking Minority 
     Member, determine the number of conferees the Chairman deems 
     most suitable and then recommend to the Speaker as conferees, 
     in keeping with the number to be appointed by the Speaker as 
     provided in clause 11 of House Rule I, the names of those 
     Members of the Committee of not less than a majority who 
     generally supported the House position and who were primarily 
     responsible for the legislation. The Chairman shall, to the 
     fullest extent feasible, include those Members of the 
     Committee who were the principal proponents of the major 
     provisions of the bill as it passed the House and such other 
     Committee Members of the majority party as the Chairman may 
     designate in consultation with the Members of the majority 
     party. Such recommendations shall provide a ratio of majority 
     party Members to minority party Members no less favorable to 
     the majority party than the ratio of majority party Members 
     to minority party Members on the Committee. In making 
     recommendations of Minority Party Members as conferees, the 
     Chairman shall consult with the Ranking Minority Member of 
     the Committee.
       (f) Hearing on Waste, Fraud, and Abuse.--(1) The Committee, 
     or a Subcommittee, shall hold at least one hearing during 
     each 120-day period following the establishment of the 
     Committee on the topic of waste, fraud, abuse, or 
     mismanagement in Government programs which the Committee may 
     authorize.
       (2) A hearing described in subparagraph (1) shall include a 
     focus on the most egregious instances of waste, fraud, abuse, 
     or mismanagement as documented by any report the Committee 
     has received from a Federal Office of the Inspector General 
     or the Comptroller General of the United States.
       (g) Hearing on Agency Financial Statements.--The Committee 
     or a Subcommittee, shall hold at least one hearing in any 
     session in which the Committee has received disclaimers of 
     agency financial statements from auditors of any Federal 
     agency that the Committee may authorize to hear testimony on 
     such disclaimers from representatives of any such agency.
       (h) Hearing on GAO High-Risk-List.--The Committee or a 
     Subcommittee, shall hold at least one hearing on issues 
     raised by reports issued by the Comptroller General of the 
     United States indicating that Federal programs or operations 
     that the Committee may authorize are at high risk for waste, 
     fraud, and mismanagement, known as the `high-risk-list' or 
     the `high-risk series'.
       (i) Activities Report.--(1) Not later than January 2 of 
     each odd-numbered year, the Committee shall submit to the 
     House a report on the activities of the Committee. After 
     adjournment sine die of the last regular session of a 
     Congress, or after December 15 of an even-numbered year, 
     whichever occurs first, the Chair may file the report, a copy 
     of which shall be made available to each Member of the 
     Committee for at least 7 calendar days, with the Clerk of the 
     House at any time.
       (2) Such report shall include separate sections summarizing 
     the legislative and oversight activities of the Committee 
     during that Congress.
       (3) The oversight section of such report shall include a 
     summary of the oversight plans submitted by the Committee 
     pursuant to clause 2(d) of House Rule X, a summary of the 
     actions taken and recommendations made with respect to each 
     such plan, and a summary of any additional oversight 
     activities undertaken by the Committee, and any 
     recommendations made or actions taken with respect thereto.


                        RULE XI.--SUBCOMMITTEES

       (a) Number and Composition.--There shall be such 
     subcommittees as specified in paragraph (c) of this rule. 
     Each of such subcommittees shall be composed of the number of 
     Members set forth in paragraph (c) of this rule, including ex 
     officio Members.1 The Chairman may create 
     additional subcommittees of an ad hoc nature as the Chairman 
     determines to be appropriate, subject to any limitations 
     provided for in the House Rules.
       (b) Ratios.--On each Subcommittee, there shall be a ratio 
     of majority party Members to minority party Members which 
     shall be consistent with the ratio on the full Committee. In 
     calculating the ratio of majority party Members to minority 
     party Members, there shall be included the ex officio Members 
     of the subcommittees and ratios below reflect that fact.
       (c) Jurisdiction.--Each Subcommittee shall have the 
     following general jurisdiction and number of Members:
       General Farm Commodities and Risk Management (23 members, 
     13 majority and 10 minority)--Policies, statutes, and markets 
     relating to commodities including barley, cotton, cottonseed, 
     corn, grain sorghum, honey, mohair, oats, other oilseeds, 
     peanuts, pulse crops, rice, soybeans, sugar, wheat, and wool; 
     the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management policies 
     and statutes, including Federal Crop Insurance; producer data 
     and privacy issues.
       Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit (16 members, 9 
     majority and 7 minority)--Policies, statutes, and markets 
     relating to commodity exchanges; agricultural credit; rural 
     development; energy; rural electrification.
       Conservation and Forestry (16 members, 9 majority and 7 
     minority)--Policies and statutes relating to resource 
     conservation, forestry, and all forests under the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture.
       Nutrition (23 members, 13 majority and 10 minority)--
     Policies and statutes relating to nutrition, including the 
     Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and domestic 
     commodity distribution and consumer initiatives.
       Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research (16 members, 9 
     majority and 7 minority)--Policies, statutes, and markets 
     relating to horticulture, including fruits, vegetables, nuts, 
     and ornamentals; bees; and organic agriculture; policies and 
     statutes relating to marketing and promotion orders; pest and 
     disease management; bioterrorism; adulteration and 
     quarantine matters; research, education, and extension; 
     and biotechnology.
       Livestock and Foreign Agriculture (16 members, 9 majority 
     and 7 minority)--Policies, statutes, and markets relating to 
     all livestock, poultry, dairy, and seafood, including all 
     products thereof; the inspection, marketing, and promotion of 
     such commodities and products; aquaculture; animal welfare; 
     grazing; foreign agricultural assistance and trade promotion.
       (d) Referral of Legislation.--
       (1)(a) In General.--All bills, resolutions, and other 
     matters referred to the Committee shall be referred to all 
     subcommittees of appropriate jurisdiction within 2 weeks 
     after being referred to the Committee. After consultation 
     with the Ranking Minority Member, the Chairman may determine 
     that the Committee will consider certain bills, resolutions, 
     or other matters.
       (b) Trade Matters.--Unless action is otherwise taken under 
     subparagraph (3), bills, resolutions, and other matters 
     referred to the Committee relating to foreign agriculture, 
     foreign food or commodity assistance, and foreign trade and 
     marketing issues will be considered by the Committee.
       (2) The Chairman, by a majority vote of the Committee, may 
     discharge a Subcommittee from further consideration of any 
     bill, resolution, or other matter referred to the 
     Subcommittee and have such bill, resolution, or other matter 
     considered by the Committee. The Committee having referred a 
     bill, resolution, or other matter to a Subcommittee in 
     accordance with this rule may discharge such Subcommittee 
     from further consideration thereof at any time by a vote of 
     the majority Members of the Committee for the Committee's 
     direct consideration or for reference to another 
     Subcommittee.
       (3) Unless the Committee, a quorum being present, decides 
     otherwise by a majority vote, the Chairman may refer bills, 
     resolutions, legislation, or other matters not specifically 
     within the jurisdiction of a Subcommittee, or that is within 
     the jurisdiction of more than one Subcommittee, jointly or 
     exclusively as the Chairman deems appropriate, including 
     concurrently to the subcommittees with jurisdiction, 
     sequentially to the subcommittees with jurisdiction (subject 
     to any time limits deemed appropriate), divided by subject 
     matter among the subcommittees with jurisdiction, or to an ad 
     hoc subcommittee appointed by the Chairman for the purpose of 
     considering the matter and reporting to the Committee 
     thereon, or make such other provisions deemed appropriate.
       (e) Participation and Service of Committee Members on 
     Subcommittees.--(1) The Chairman and the Ranking Minority 
     Member shall serve as ex officio Members of all subcommittees 
     and shall have the right to vote on all matters before the 
     subcommittees. The Chairman and the Ranking Minority Member 
     may not be counted for the purpose of establishing a quorum.
       (2) Any Member of the Committee who is not a Member of the 
     Subcommittee may have the privilege of sitting and 
     nonparticipatory attendance at Subcommittee hearings or 
     meetings in accordance with clause 2(g)(2) of House Rule XI. 
     Such Member may not:
       (i) vote on any matter;
       (ii) be counted for the purpose of establishing a quorum;
       (iii) participate in questioning a witness under the 5-
     Minute Rule, unless permitted to do so by the Subcommittee 
     Chairman in consultation with the Ranking Minority Member or 
     a majority of the Subcommittee, a quorum being present;
       (iv) raise points of order; or
       (v) offer amendments or motions.
       (f) Subcommittee Hearings and Meetings.--(1) Each 
     Subcommittee is authorized to meet, hold hearings, receive 
     evidence, and make recommendations to the Committee on all 
     matters referred to it or under its jurisdiction after 
     consultation by the Subcommittee Chairman with the Committee 
     Chairman. (See Committee Rule VIII.)
       (2) After consultation with the Committee Chairman, 
     Subcommittee Chairmen shall set dates for hearings and 
     meetings of their subcommittees and shall request the 
     Majority Staff Director to make any announcement relating 
     thereto. (See paragraph (b) of Committee Rule VIII.) In 
     setting the dates, the Committee Chairman and Subcommittee 
     Chairman shall consult with other Subcommittee Chairmen and 
     relevant Committee and Subcommittee Ranking Minority Members 
     in an effort to avoid simultaneously scheduling Committee and 
     Subcommittee meetings or hearings to the extent practicable.

[[Page H939]]

       (3) Notice of all Subcommittee meetings shall be provided 
     to the Chairman and the Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Committee by the Majority Staff Director.
       (4) Subcommittees may hold meetings or hearings outside of 
     the House if the Chairman of the Committee and other 
     Subcommittee Chairmen and the Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Subcommittee is consulted in advance to ensure that there is 
     no scheduling problem. However, the majority of the Committee 
     may authorize such meeting or hearing.
       (5) The provisions regarding notice and the agenda of 
     Committee meetings under paragraph (a) of Committee Rule II 
     and special or additional meetings under paragraph (b) of 
     Committee Rule II shall apply to Subcommittee meetings.
       (6) If a vacancy occurs in a Subcommittee chairmanship, the 
     Chairman may set the dates for hearings and meetings of the 
     Subcommittee during the period of vacancy. The Chairman may 
     also appoint an acting Subcommittee Chairman until the 
     vacancy is filled.
       (g) Subcommittee Action.--(1) Any bill, resolution, 
     recommendation, or other matter forwarded to the Committee by 
     a Subcommittee shall be promptly forwarded by the 
     Subcommittee Chairman or any Subcommittee Member authorized 
     to do so by the Subcommittee.
       (2) Upon receipt of such recommendation, the Majority Staff 
     Director of the Committee shall promptly advise all Members 
     of the Committee of the Subcommittee action.
       (3) The Committee shall not consider any matters 
     recommended by subcommittees until 2 calendar days have 
     elapsed from the date of action, unless the Chairman or a 
     majority of the Committee determines otherwise.
       (h) Subcommittee Investigations.--No investigation shall be 
     initiated by a Subcommittee without prior consultation with 
     the Chairman of the Committee or a majority of the Committee.


             RULE XII.--COMMITTEE BUDGET, STAFF, AND TRAVEL

       (a) Committee Budget.--The Chairman, in consultation with 
     the majority Members of the Committee and the minority 
     Members of the Committee, shall prepare a preliminary budget 
     for each session of the Congress. Such budget shall include 
     necessary amounts for staff personnel, travel, investigation, 
     and other expenses of the Committee and subcommittees. After 
     consultation with the Ranking Minority Member, the Chairman 
     shall include an amount budgeted to minority Members for 
     staff under their direction and supervision. Thereafter, the 
     Chairman shall combine such proposals into a consolidated 
     Committee budget and shall take whatever action is necessary 
     to have such budget duly authorized by the House.
       (b) Committee Staff.--(1) The Chairman shall appoint and 
     determine the remuneration of, and may remove, the 
     professional and clerical employees of the Committee not 
     assigned to the minority. The professional and clerical staff 
     of the Committee not assigned to the minority shall be under 
     the general supervision and direction of the Chairman, who 
     shall establish and assign the duties and responsibilities of 
     such staff members and delegate such authority as he or she 
     determines appropriate. (See clause 9 of House Rule X)
       (2) The Ranking Minority Member of the Committee shall 
     appoint and determine the remuneration of, and may remove, 
     the professional and clerical staff assigned to the minority 
     within the budget approved for such purposes. The 
     professional and clerical staff assigned to the minority 
     shall be under the general supervision and direction of the 
     Ranking Minority Member of the Committee who may delegate 
     such authority as he or she determines appropriate.
       (3) From the funds made available for the appointment of 
     Committee staff pursuant to any primary or additional expense 
     resolution, the Chairman shall ensure that each Subcommittee 
     is adequately funded and staffed to discharge its 
     responsibilities and that the minority party is fairly 
     treated in the appointment of such staff (See clause 6(d) of 
     House Rule X).
       (c) Committee Travel.--(1) Consistent with the primary 
     expense resolution and such additional expense resolution as 
     may have been approved, the provisions of this rule shall 
     govern official travel of Committee Members and Committee 
     staff regarding domestic and foreign travel (See clause 8 of 
     House Rule X). Official travel for any Member or any 
     Committee staff member shall be paid only upon the prior 
     authorization of the Chairman. Official travel may be 
     authorized by the Chairman for any Committee Member and any 
     Committee staff member in connection with the attendance of 
     hearings conducted by the Committee and its subcommittees and 
     meetings, conferences, facility inspections, and 
     investigations which involve activities or subject matter 
     relevant to the general jurisdiction of the Committee. Before 
     such authorization is given there shall be submitted to the 
     Chairman in writing the following:
       (i) The purpose of the official travel;
       (ii) The dates during which the official travel is to be 
     made and the date or dates of the event for which the 
     official travel is being made;
       (iii) The location of the event for which the official 
     travel is to be made; and
       (iv) The names of Members and Committee staff seeking 
     authorization.
       (2) In the case of official travel of Members and staff of 
     a Subcommittee to hearings, meetings, conferences, facility 
     inspections, and investigations involving activities or 
     subject matter under the jurisdiction of such Subcommittee to 
     be paid for out of funds allocated to the Committee, prior 
     authorization must be obtained from the Subcommittee Chairman 
     and the full Committee Chairman. Such prior authorization 
     shall be given by the Chairman only upon the representation 
     by the applicable Subcommittee Chairman in writing setting 
     forth those items enumerated in clause (1).
       (3) Within 60 days of the conclusion of any official travel 
     authorized under this rule, there shall be submitted to the 
     Committee Chairman a written report covering the information 
     gained as a result of the hearing, meeting, conference, 
     facility inspection, or investigation attended pursuant to 
     such official travel.
       (4) Local currencies owned by the United States shall be 
     made available to the Committee and its employees engaged in 
     carrying out their official duties outside the United States, 
     its territories or possessions. No appropriated funds shall 
     be expended for the purpose of defraying expenses of Members 
     of the Committee or its employees in any country where local 
     currencies are available for this purpose, and the following 
     conditions shall apply with respect to their use of such 
     currencies;
       (i) No Member or employee of the Committee shall receive or 
     expend local currencies for subsistence in any country at a 
     rate in excess of the maximum per diem rate set forth in 
     applicable Federal law; and
       (ii) Each Member or employee of the Committee shall make an 
     itemized report to the Chairman within 60 days following the 
     completion of travel showing the dates each country was 
     visited, the amount of per diem furnished, the cost of 
     transportation furnished, and any funds expended for any 
     other official purpose, and shall summarize in these 
     categories the total foreign currencies and appropriated 
     funds expended. All such individual reports shall be filed by 
     the Chairman with the Committee on House Administration and 
     shall be open to public inspection.


                     RULE XIII.--AMENDMENT OF RULES

       These Rules may be amended by a majority vote of the 
     Committee. A proposed change in these Rules shall not be 
     considered by the Committee as provided in clause 2 of House 
     Rule XI, unless written notice of the proposed change has 
     been provided to each Committee Member 2 legislative days in 
     advance of the date on which the matter is to be considered. 
     Any such change in the Rules of the Committee shall be 
     published in the Congressional Record within 30 calendar days 
     after its approval.


                                Endnote

       \1\ The Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Committee serve as ex officio Members of the Subcommittees. 
     (See paragraph (e) of this Rule).

                          ____________________



