

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2215-S2216]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to 
establish an independent commission to examine and report on the facts 
regarding the extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber 
operations and other attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States 
national election, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 179

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 179, a bill to expand the 
use of E-Verify, to hold employers accountable, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to establish a public health 
insurance option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 205

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 205, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the estate and generation-
skipping transfer taxes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare 
outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) and the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 294, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug Administration's jurisdiction 
over certain tobacco products, and to protect jobs and small businesses 
involved in the sale, manufacturing and distribution of traditional and 
premium cigars.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day 
health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for 
reduction of survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by 
veterans' dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 366

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 366, a bill to require the 
Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies to take risk 
profiles and business models of institutions into account when taking 
regulatory actions, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 374, a bill to enable concrete 
masonry products manufacturers to establish, finance, and carry out a 
coordinated program of research, education, and promotion to improve, 
maintain, and develop markets for concrete masonry products.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 382, a bill to require the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry to collect 
data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 393

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 393, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to allow

[[Page S2216]]

employers a credit against income tax for employees who participate in 
qualified apprenticeship programs.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) and the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 407, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to permanently extend the railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Carper), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), and 
the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) were added as cosponsors of S. 
497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide 
for Medicare coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items 
as items of durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill 
to prevent the sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring 
the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 563

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 563, a bill to amend the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to require that certain buildings 
and personal property be covered by flood insurance, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable authority 
for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation Fund to 
maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 604

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 604, a bill to allow certain 
State permitting authority to encourage expansion of broadband service 
to rural communities, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 630

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 630, a bill to amend the 
Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 to make 2,500 visas available for 
the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 701

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 701, a bill to improve the 
competitiveness of United States manufacturing by designating and 
supporting manufacturing communities.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn), and the 
Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) were added as cosponsors of S. 
720, a bill to amend the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include 
in the prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the United States 
boycotts fostered by international governmental organizations against 
Israel and to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United States to 
oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 722, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 763

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the 
Senator from Washington (Ms. Cantwell), and the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 763, a bill 
to improve surface and maritime transportation security.


                                 S. 766

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 766, a bill to amend titles 10 and 32, United States 
Code, to improve and enhance authorities relating to the employment, 
use, status, and benefits of military technicians (dual status), and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 770

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 770, a bill to require the Director of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology to disseminate resources to help 
reduce small business cybersecurity risks, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 774

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 774, a bill to address the 
psychological, developmental, social, and emotional needs of children, 
youth, and families who have experienced trauma, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 786

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 786, a bill to 
establish a grant program relating to the prevention of student and 
student athlete opioid misuse.


                                 S. 800

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 800, a bill to 
protect taxpayers from liability associated with the reclamation of 
surface coal mining operations, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 5, a joint 
resolution removing the deadline for the ratification of the equal 
rights amendment.

                          ____________________



