

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2017-H2019]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Katko, Mr. Kennedy, and 
             Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 1442. A bill to extend the period of eligibility for 
     non-competitive appointment of Peace Corps and VISTA 
     volunteers and certain overseas employees, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Cartwright, and Ms. Eshoo):
       H.R. 1443. A bill to promote energy savings in residential 
     buildings and industry, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Budget, Financial Services, Science, Space, 
     and Technology, Transportation and Infrastructure, and 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, 
             Mrs. Roby, Mr. Hurd, and Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 1444. A bill to authorize the Department of Labor's 
     voluntary protection program; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Ms. DeLauro, 
             and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 1445. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the circumstances under which the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs shall provide reimbursement for emergency 
     ambulance services; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Soto, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Correa, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Gutierrez):
       H.R. 1446. A bill to amend section 287(g) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality to prohibit State and local 
     officers and employees from performing immigration officer 
     functions; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself and Mr. Schneider):
       H.R. 1447. A bill to extend the protections of the Fair 
     Housing Act to persons suffering discrimination on the basis 
     of sex or sexual orientation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Mr. Welch, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Jones, Mr. Schrader, and Miss Rice of 
             New York):
       H.R. 1448. A bill to prohibit funds available for the 
     United States Armed Forces to be obligated or expended for 
     introduction of the Armed Forces into hostilities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Armed Services, and Rules, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Rohrabacher):
       H.R. 1449. A bill to require a report on the designation of 
     Pakistan as a state sponsor of terrorism, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, and Mr. Deutch):
       H.R. 1450. A bill to modify the prohibition on recognition 
     by United States courts of certain rights relating to certain 
     marks, trade names, or commercial names; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
       H.R. 1451. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the treatment of foreign corporations, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
       H.R. 1452. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     prohibit any payment for lodging and other travel expenses by 
     the Federal Government for any such expenses incurred at a 
     hotel owned or operated by the President; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Vargas, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Soto, Mr. Takano, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Grijalva, and Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman):
       H.R. 1453. A bill to reaffirm the commitment of the 
     Department of Homeland Security to countering all forms of 
     extremism, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LABRADOR (for himself and Mr. Poliquin):
       H.R. 1454. A bill to exempt certain 16- and 17-year-old 
     individuals employed in logging or mechanized operations from 
     child labor laws; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. BONAMICI:
       H.R. 1455. A bill to provide for the restoration of Federal 
     recognition to the Clatsop-Nehalem Confederated Tribes of 
     Oregon, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Sablan, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Garrett, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Ms. McSally, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Keating, and Mrs. Radewagen):
       H.R. 1456. A bill to prohibit the sale of shark fins, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. TIPTON (for himself, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. McHenry, 
             Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia):
       H.R. 1457. A bill to establish requirements for use of a 
     driver's license or personal identification card by certain 
     financial institutions for opening an account or obtaining a 
     financial product or service, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Cartwright, 
             Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Sires, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Welch, and Ms. McCollum):
       H.R. 1458. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the excise tax on gasoline, diesel, and 
     kerosene fuels; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. EMMER:
       H.R. 1459. A bill to place the Financial Stability 
     Oversight Council and the Office of Financial Research under 
     the regular appropriations process, to provide for certain 
     quarterly reporting and public notice and comment 
     requirements for the Office of Financial Research, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself and Mr. Hensarling):
       H.R. 1460. A bill to require the identification of certain 
     persons who participated in a rule making in publications 
     related to such rule making, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON:
       H.R. 1461. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit an annual 
     report to Congress relating to the use of official time by 
     employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to limit the 
     instances in which official time may be granted for certain 
     purposes to employees of the Department, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS:
       H.R. 1462. A bill to amend part A of title I of the 
     Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to allow 
     States, in accordance with State law, to let Federal funds 
     for the education of disadvantaged children follow low-income 
     children to the public school, charter school, accredited 
     private school, or supplemental educational service program 
     they attend, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 1463. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security from granting a work authorization to an alien found 
     to have been unlawfully present in the United States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 1464. A bill to direct the National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology to convene an effort to make 
     available to standard-developing organizations a consistent, 
     authoritative set of climate information, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself, Mr. Hurd, Mr. 
             Doggett, Mr. Smith of Texas, and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 1465. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to work with cybersecurity consortia for training, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself, Mr. Nolan, 
             Ms. Sanchez, Ms.

[[Page H2018]]

             Lee, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Soto, and Mr. 
             Cleaver):
       H.R. 1466. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a high quality child care tax credit, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr. Kinzinger):
       H.R. 1467. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration to prescribe regulations 
     establishing minimum standards for space for passengers on 
     passenger aircraft, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mr. Coffman, 
             Mr. Denham, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Amodei, Mr. Valadao, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto 
             Rico, Mr. Upton, and Mr. Reichert):
       H.R. 1468. A bill to authorize the cancellation of removal 
     and adjustment of status of certain aliens who are long-term 
     United States residents and who entered the United States as 
     children, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Homeland 
     Security, and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON (for himself, Mr. Poliquin, and Mr. 
             Jordan):
       H.R. 1469. A bill to establish the Benefit Reform and 
     Alignment Commission to consolidate and realign means-tested 
     direct spending program outlays; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committees on Education and the 
     Workforce, Agriculture, Natural Resources, Energy and 
     Commerce, Financial Services, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, Rules, and the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GALLEGO:
       H.R. 1470. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to limit the grounds of deportability for certain alien 
     members of the United States Armed Forces, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GROTHMAN:
       H.R. 1471. A bill to suspend assistance to countries 
     denying or delaying accepting aliens ordered removed from the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mrs. Radewagen, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Esty, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Mr. Hastings, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Kaptur, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mr. Lynch, Ms. Moore, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             Soto, Mr. Takano, Mr. Walz, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Pelosi, 
             and Mr. Bilirakis):
       H.R. 1472. A bill to expand eligibility for the program of 
     comprehensive assistance for family caregivers of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits available 
     to participants under such program, to enhance special 
     compensation for members of the uniformed services who 
     require assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Armed Services, Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Capuano, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Pallone, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Bass, Mr. Hastings, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Raskin, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 1473. A bill to prohibit the deployment of members of 
     the Armed Forces to Syria for purposes of engaging in ground 
     combat operations, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 1474. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Education 
     to award grants to educational organizations to carry out 
     educational programs about the Holocaust; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Meehan, Mr. King of New York, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 1475. A bill to prevent gun trafficking; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MOOLENAAR:
       H.R. 1476. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to permit individuals eligible for Indian Health Service 
     assistance to qualify for health savings accounts; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Soto, Ms. McCollum, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Foster, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Vela, Mrs. 
             Torres, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Rush, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Polis, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Raskin, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Mr. Takano, Ms. Bass, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Cleaver, Ms. Speier, and Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia):
       H.R. 1477. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds to 
     build a wall along the southern border, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida:
       H.R. 1478. A bill to repeal the provision that in practice 
     prohibits the Department of Health and Human Services from 
     sponsoring research on gun violence in fiscal year 2017, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 1479. A bill to amend the District of Columbia Home 
     Rule Act to eliminate Congressional review of newly-passed 
     District laws; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Lipinski, 
             and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 1480. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to allow for the personal importation of safe 
     and affordable drugs from approved pharmacies in Canada; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 1481. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to include automated fire sprinkler system retrofits as 
     section 179 property and classify certain automated fire 
     sprinkler system retrofits as 15-year property for purposes 
     of depreciation; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SIMPSON:
       H.R. 1482. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture 
     to maintain or replace certain facilities and structures for 
     commercial recreation services at Smith Gulch in Idaho, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself and Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 1483. A bill to amend the Forest and Rangeland 
     Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 and the Federal Land 
     Policy and Management Act of 1976 to discourage litigation 
     against the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management 
     relating to land management projects; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 1484. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to award grants to States to provide safety 
     measures to social workers and other similar professionals 
     who work with at-risk populations, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, 
             Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Peters, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. Sinema, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Hurd, 
             Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Messer, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Loebsack, 
             Mr. Welch, Mr. Faso, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. 
             Young of Iowa, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 1485. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide students with increased flexibility in the use of 
     Federal Pell Grants, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
       H.R. 1486. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to provide funding to secure non-profit facilities from 
     terrorist attacks, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself and Mr. O'Rourke):
       H.R. 1487. A bill to prohibit use of Federal funds to 
     apprehend, detain, or remove from the United States any alien 
     who was granted deferred action under the Deferred Action for 
     Childhood Arrivals Program, if the alien lost their deferred 
     action status solely as a direct or indirect result of any 
     action taken by the President or another Federal official; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. VISCLOSKY (for himself, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Banks 
             of Indiana, Mr. Rokita, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Messer, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Bucshon, and Mr. 
             Hollingsworth):
       H.R. 1488. A bill to retitle Indiana Dunes National 
     Lakeshore as Indiana Dunes National Park, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.

[[Page H2019]]

  

           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 1489. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     provide for congressional approval of national monuments and 
     restrictions on the use of national monuments, to establish 
     requirements for declaration of marine national monuments, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself and Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California):
       H. Res. 184. A resolution of inquiry requesting the 
     President and directing the Attorney General to transmit, 
     respectively, certain documents to the House of 
     Representatives relating to communications with the 
     government of Russia; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen):
       H. Res. 185. A resolution calling on the Government of Iran 
     to fulfill repeated promises of assistance in the case of 
     Robert Levinson, the longest held United States civilian in 
     our Nation's history; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Neal, 
             Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Thompson of California, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H. Res. 186. A resolution of inquiry directing the 
     Secretary of the Treasury to provide to the House of 
     Representatives the tax returns and other specified financial 
     information of President Donald J. Trump; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Keating, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Sires, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Schneider, Mrs. 
             Torres, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Conyers, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Smith of 
             New Jersey, Mr. Sherman, and Mr. Hastings):
       H. Res. 187. A resolution relating to efforts to respond to 
     the famine in South Sudan; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Royce of California, 
             Mr. Engel, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Keating, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska, and Ms. Judy Chu of California):
       H. Res. 188. A resolution condemning the Government of the 
     Islamic Republic of Iran for the 1988 massacre of political 
     prisoners and calling for justice for the victims; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



