

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H63-H65]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TAXPAYERS RIGHT-TO-KNOW ACT

  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 71) to providetaxpayers with an annual report disclosing the 
cost and performance of Government programs and areas of duplication 
among them,and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 71

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
     ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act maybe cited as the ``Taxpayers Right-To-Know 
     Act''.

     SEC. 2. INVENTORY OF GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS.

       (a) In General.--Section 1122(a) of title 31, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1)and (2) as paragraphs 
     (2) and (3), respectively;
       (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
     the following:
       ``(1) Definition of program.--For purposes of this 
     subsection, the term `program' means an organized set of 
     activitiesby one or more agencies directed toward a common 
     purpose or goal.'';
       (3) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated--
       (A) bystriking ``In general.--Not later than October 1, 
     2012, the Office of Management and Budget shall'' and 
     inserting``Website and program inventory.--The Director of 
     the Office of Management and Budget shall'';
       (B) by strikingsubparagraph (C) and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(C) include on the website--
       ``(i) a program inventory that shallidentify each program 
     of the Federal Government for which there is more than 
     $1,000,000 in annual budget authority, which shallinclude--

       ``(I) any activity that is commonly referred to as a 
     program by a Federal agency in communications with 
     Congress,including any activity identified as a program in a 
     budget request;
       ``(II) any activity that is commonly referred to as 
     aprogram by a Federal agency in communications with the 
     public, including each program for which financial awards are 
     made on acompetitive basis; and
       ``(III) any activity referenced in law as a program after 
     June 30, 2019; and

       ``(ii) for eachprogram identified in the program inventory, 
     the information required under paragraph (3) or paragraph 
     (4), as applicable.'';
       (4) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated--
       (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
     striking``Information.--Information for each program 
     described under paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``Information 
     for largerprograms.--Information for each program identified 
     in the program inventory required under paragraph (2) for 
     which there ismore than $10,000,000 in annual budget 
     authority'';
       (B) by striking subparagraph (C);
       (C) by redesignatingsubparagraph (B) as subparagraph (D);
       (D) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(A) anidentification of the program activities that are 
     aggregated, disaggregated, or consolidated as part of 
     identifying programs;
       ``(B) for each program activity described in subparagraph 
     (A), the amount of funding for the current fiscal year 
     andprevious 2 fiscal years;
       ``(C) an estimate of the amount of funding for the 
     program;'';
       (E) in subparagraph (D), as soredesignated, by striking 
     ``and'' at the end; and
       (F) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(E) an identification ofthe statutes that authorize the 
     program and any major regulations specific to the program;
       ``(F) for any program thatprovides grants or other 
     financial assistance to individuals or entities, for the most 
     recent fiscal year--
       ``(i) adescription of the individuals served by the program 
     and beneficiaries who received financial assistance under the 
     program,including an estimate of the number of individuals 
     and beneficiaries, to the extent practicable;
       ``(ii) for each programfor which the head of an agency 
     determines it is not practicable to provide an estimate of 
     the number of individuals andbeneficiaries served by the 
     program--

       ``(I) an explanation of why data regarding the number of 
     such individuals andbeneficiaries cannot be provided; and
       ``(II) a discussion of the measures that could be taken to 
     gather the data requiredto provide such an estimate; and

       ``(iii) a description of--

       ``(I) the Federal employees who administer the 
     program,including the number of full-time equivalents with a 
     pro rata estimate for full-time equivalents associated with 
     multipleprograms; and
       ``(II) other individuals whose salary is paid in part or 
     full by the Federal Government through a grant,contract, 
     cooperative agreement, or another form of financial award or 
     assistance who administer or assist in any way 
     inadministering the program, including the number of full-
     time equivalents, to the extent practicable;

       ``(G) links to anyevaluation, assessment, or program 
     performance reviews by the agency, an Inspector General, or 
     the Government AccountabilityOffice (including program 
     performance reports required under section 1116) released 
     during the preceding 5 years; and
       ``(H)to the extent practicable, financial and other 
     information for each program activity required to be reported 
     under the FederalFunding Accountability and Transparency Act 
     of 2006 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).''; and
       (5) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) Information for smaller programs.--Information for 
     each program identified in the program inventory 
     requiredunder paragraph (2) for which there is more than 
     $1,000,000 and not more than $10,000,000 in annual budget 
     authority shall, at aminimum, include--
       ``(A) an identification of the program activities that are 
     aggregated, disaggregated, or consolidated aspart of 
     identifying programs;
       ``(B) for each program activity described in subparagraph 
     (A), the amount of funding for thecurrent fiscal year and 
     previous 2 fiscal years;
       ``(C) an identification of the statutes that authorize the 
     program and anymajor regulations specific to the program;
       ``(D) for any program that provides grants or other 
     financial assistance toindividuals or entities, a description 
     of the individuals served by the program and beneficiaries 
     who received financialassistance under the program for the 
     most recent fiscal year; and
       ``(E) links to any evaluation, assessment, or 
     programperformance reviews by the agency, an Inspector 
     General, or the Government Accountability Office (including 
     program performancereports required under section 1116) 
     released during the preceding 5 years.
       ``(5) Archiving.--After the end of eachfiscal year, the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall archive 
     and preserve the information included in theprogram inventory 
     required under paragraph (2) relating to that fiscal year.''.

[[Page H64]]

       (b) Expired Grant Funding.--Notlater than February 1 of 
     each fiscal year, the Director of the Office of Management 
     and Budget shall publish on a public websitethe total amount 
     of undisbursed grant funding remaining in grant accounts for 
     which the period of availability to the granteehas expired.

     SEC. 3. GUIDANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION.

       (a) Guidance.--Not later than June30, 2018, the Director of 
     the Office of Management and Budget--
       (1) shall prescribe guidance to implement this Act, and 
     theamendments made by this Act;
       (2) shall issue guidance to agencies to identify how the 
     program activities used for reportingunder the Federal 
     Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (31 
     U.S.C. 6101 note) are associated with programsidentified in 
     the program inventory required under section 1122(a)(2)(C)(i) 
     of title 31, United States Code, as amended bysubsection (a);
       (3) may issue guidance to agencies to ensure that the 
     programs identified in the program inventory requiredunder 
     section 1122(a)(2)(C)(i) of title 31, United States Code, as 
     amended by subsection (a), are presented at a similar levelof 
     detail across agencies and are not duplicative or 
     overlapping; and
       (4) may, based on an analysis of the costs 
     ofimplementation, and after submitting to Congress a 
     notification of the action by the Director--
       (A) exempt from therequirements under section 1122(a) of 
     title 31, United States Code, an agency that--
       (i) is not listed in section 901(b) oftitle 31, United 
     States Code; and
       (ii) for the fiscal year during which the exemption is 
     made, has budget authority (asdefined in section 3 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 622)) of not more 
     than $10,000,000; and
       (B) extendthe implementation deadline under subsection (b) 
     by not more than 1 year.
       (b) Implementation.--This Act, and theamendments made by 
     this Act, shall be implemented not later than June 30, 2019.

     SEC. 4. NOADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

       No additional funds are authorized to carry out the 
     requirements of this Act and theamendments made by this Act. 
     Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts 
     otherwise authorized.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Utah (Mr. Chaffetz) and the gentleman fromMissouri (Mr. Clay) each will 
control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Utah.


                             General Leave

  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Membersmay have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous materials on the bill 
underconsideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Utah?
  There was noobjection.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, this is a very good bill brought to us by 
lead sponsorMr. Walberg of Michigan who has done considerable work on 
this not only at this point, but in Congresses of the past. Wehave 
cosponsorship from a number of people on both sides of the aisle--five 
members within the Oversight and Government ReformCommittee.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. Walberg).
  Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his leadership on 
this.
  Mr. Speaker, Irise today in support of the Taxpayers Right-To-Know 
Act.
  This bill is a bipartisan and bicameral effort to provide 
moreinformation about Federal programs and their activities online. The 
American people deserve to know what their government doeswith their 
hard-earned dollars. The Taxpayers Right-To-Know Act will make it 
easier to evaluate Federal Government spending byrequiring Federal 
agencies to identify their programs, provide basic information like 
what their programs do, how they perform,and how much they cost. 
Agencies must do a better job of managing their programs and 
identifying areas where taxpayer dollarsare wasted.
  The Government Accountability Office is tasked with reporting on 
duplication and continues to find new areas ofduplication across the 
government. In 6 years, GAO has identified 250 areas and 637 corrective 
actions in those areas to reducefragmentation, overlap, or duplication 
or address other opportunities for financial benefits. While only 41 
percent ofrecommended corrective actions have been taken, GAO estimates 
this progress will result in approximately $125 billion infinancial 
benefits and savings over 15 years.
  While GAO's work has been invaluable, their ability to look 
comprehensively atthe Federal Government is inherently limited because 
of the poor reporting by agencies about their activity. Quite simply, 
Mr.Speaker, without better data, billions more will be lost.
  Current law, specifically the Government Performance and 
ResultsModernization Act, requires agencies to report all their 
programs, their funding, and their performance information to theOffice 
of Management and Budget. However, OMB's current inventory is 
incomplete and provides inconsistent information. Thismakes it more 
difficult and time consuming to identify areas of waste and 
inefficiency.
  The Taxpayers Right-To-Know Actestablishes an across-the-board 
definition for ``program'' and requires the publication of detailed 
information on each Federalprogram. This change will allow American 
taxpayers and Federal watchdogs to better evaluate the effectiveness 
and utility ofgovernment programs.
  The Taxpayers Right-To-Know Act, Mr. Speaker, is an important and 
necessary step forward for thegovernment in providing programs that are 
accountable, effective, and efficient.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Senator Lankfordfor his work on the Senate 
companion bill in the last Congress, which will be reintroduced in 
future weeks. I also thankRepresentative Cooper of Tennessee for his 
continued bipartisan support and cosponsorship on this issue.
  I urge mycolleagues to support this legislation.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I mayconsume.
  The Taxpayers Right-To-Know Act builds upon two existing laws that 
came through the Oversight and Government ReformCommittee: the 
Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010 and the 
DATA Act, which was signed into law in 2014.

                              {time}  1245

  The Obama administration launched the performance.gov Website to 
implement the GPRA Modernization Act, and this bill would enhance the 
information available through that Web site.
  The bill would require the Office of Management and Budget to make 
available on a central Web site an inventory of allFederal agency 
programs that have a budget authority of more than $1 million.
  I thank Representative Walberg for makingchanges to help address 
those concerns in the version of the bill before us today. It is 
important that we continue to worktogether to ensure the bill will work 
as intended.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.Costello).
  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, it is important the 
FederalGovernment convey to taxpayers how it is spending their hard-
earned money. That is why I rise in support of H.R. 71, theTaxpayers 
Right-To-Know Act.
  For Federal programs authorized to spend over $1 million, this 
bipartisan bill would make moreinformation available and accessible 
online so that taxpayers may see where their money is being spent and 
how the program isperforming. For each Federal program meeting these 
requirements, the government would need to make public several key 
pieces ofinformation that are of interest to many of my constituents, 
including funding levels for the program, Federal laws thatauthorize 
the program, regulations related to the program, the results of 
performance reviews that measure the program'seffectiveness, and any 
overlap of the program with another Federal program.
  Simply put, this bill would help alleviate wasteand prevent taxpayer 
dollars from being spent on unnecessary, ineffective, or duplicative 
programs.
  I thank CongressmanTim Walberg and Congressman Jim Cooper for their 
continued leadership on this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, this billdid pass the House without any objection in the 
last session, and I would, once again, urge my colleagues to support 
thiscommonsense bill.

[[Page H65]]

  

  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  I am thankful for thegood work by Mr. Walberg and Mr. Cooper, who 
also serve on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. I thank 
Mr.Clay and, certainly, Mr. Cummings.
  In the 114th Congress, this bill was able to pass overwhelmingly in 
the Houseby a vote of 413-0--with no opposition. It is truly bipartisan 
and bicameral. It is a good bill. I thank Senator JamesLankford of 
Oklahoma for his work on the Senate side, and we do hope that it will 
make it swiftly through the Senate.
  TheTaxpayers Right-To-Know Act provides the public and Congress with 
increased transparency about Federal programs, including howmuch they 
cost and any benefits that they provide. It sounds like a good and 
worthy thing to do, and it passed the previousCongress. I urge my 
colleagues to vote in favor of it here in the 115th Congress, and I am 
glad it is one of the first thingsthat we are doing.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKERpro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Utah (Mr. Chaffetz) that the House suspend therules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 71.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspendedand the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



