

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H304]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       WE MUST STAND WITH FREEDOM-LOVING NATIONS AROUND THE WORLD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Kinzinger) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I was reflecting the other day. Last 
week, we all joined together in this Chamber, we held upour right hand, 
and we swore an oath to protect and defend the Constitution against all 
enemies, foreign and domestic.
  That is an oath I have taken both as a Member of Congress--now on my 
fourth term--and as a military pilot, something similarto that, talking 
about the importance of the military to protect and defend the 
Constitution. In both of these roles, I haveseen firsthand the 
sacrifice that men and women of the military have been willing to make 
to defend their freedoms, to defendthe Constitution, defend the 
country.
  This last month was especially tough for our Nation's security and 
for our foreign policy. The 8-year decline of Americanglobal 
leadership, under the President, came to a head. A sad trend built by 
the Obama administration continued as the WhiteHouse worked with our 
enemies and abandoned our friends.
  For one, the recent ceasefire in Syria was reached without United 
States' input, ultimately empowering tyrants in Iran andin Russia. In 
fact, to think about the situation in Syria, I want to remind people 
there are half a million dead Syrians rightnow, innocent civilians. And 
I have heard people say, completely incorrectly, that it doesn't 
matter; they are all basicallyterrorists. Untrue. But let's say it is.
  There are 50,000 children in Syria that did not get an opportunity to 
go be a teacher or a police officer or a firefighteror a doctor because 
of tyrants in Iran, because of Bashar al-Assad and because of Russia 
empowering them and using precision-guided munitions to hit innocent 
civilians and take their life away.
  Last week, the U.S. abstained from a vote in the United Nations 
Security Council on the biased resolution targeting our allyIsrael.
  Mr. Speaker, rather than turning on freedom-loving nations around the 
world, we must stand with them. Nowhere is this moreimportant than in 
the fight against terrorism.
  Before the holidays, a list went out from ISIS accounts with the 
names of churches in the United States that should beattacked over the 
holidays. Then, an attack in Berlin took the lives of 12 innocent 
civilians and injured more than 50 in aChristmas market. On New Year's 
Eve, there was a savage attack at a nightclub in Istanbul, killing 39 
revelers and injuringdozens.
  Both attacks were claimed by ISIS seeking to strike fear into 
freedom-loving people around the world. While we all mustremain 
vigilant, we cannot give in to that fear, and we must continue to live 
our lives.
  What we need right now, Mr. Speaker, is a renewed American moment, 
renewed American leadership after 8 years of decline. Weneed a 
Churchill moment. I think about Winston Churchill after the bombs 
rained down in London, and instead of hiding andcowering and talking 
about how terrible it is, he goes out on the streets, rallies the 
people, and says that you cannot shatterus. And the people unite behind 
him.
  It is time for America to exhibit the same kind of leadership 
exhibited by George W. Bush in the bullhorn speech after thefall of the 
World Trade Center. He showed Americans unity, strength, resolve, and 
he reminded the world that our foundationswill not be shaken even if 
you shake the foundations of our biggest buildings. And you can shatter 
our steel, but you can'tshatter the steel of American resolve. I 
haven't heard speeches like that in quite a while from the oval office.
  Mr. Speaker, it has been a rough election cycle for our country. It 
has been a tough, very divisive, and difficult time, butnow it is time 
to come together. We are going to have our partisan differences and 
battles, and that is fine. That is what weare out here for.
  But, Mr. Speaker, America needs to remember our mission, our God-
given mission. I believe that is to be an example of self-governance to 
billions of people that don't have what we have, but are desperate for 
it.
  We used that kind of leadership in the cold war as millions lived 
behind the Iron Curtain and saw what freedom could be. Andthere are 
iron curtains that exist today; terrorism, strongmen, a resurgent 
Russia--an iron curtain of soft expectations and lowexpectations of 
people.
  For the last 8 years, we failed to articulate that mission. Mr. 
Speaker, we are a nation in need of remembering thatmission, and it is 
my sincere hope that this will change very soon.

                          ____________________



