

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2425-S2427]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 57

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 57, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to revoke bonuses paid to employees 
involved in electronic wait list manipulations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 74

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
74, a bill to improve the ability of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, the Coast Guard, and coastal States to 
sustain healthy ocean and coastal ecosystems by maintaining and 
sustaining their capabilities relating to oil spill preparedness, 
prevention, response, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 108

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 108, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on medical 
devices.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm 
that the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to reform taxation of alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 260, a bill to repeal the provisions of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act providing for the Independent 
Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 266, a bill to award the Congressional Gold 
Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic achievements and 
courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 283

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 283, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for the treatment of veterans who 
participated in the cleanup of Enewetak Atoll as radiation exposed 
veterans for purposes of the presumption of service-connection of 
certain disabilities by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 293

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 293, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the deferral of 
inclusion in gross income for capital gains reinvested in opportunity 
zones.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult 
day health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 393

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Minnesota

[[Page S2426]]

(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 393, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow employers a credit against 
income tax for employees who participate in qualified apprenticeship 
programs.


                                 S. 413

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 413, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to prohibit prescription drug 
plan sponsors and MA-PD organizations under the Medicare program from 
retroactively reducing payment on clean claims submitted by pharmacies.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 545

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 545, a bill to preserve 
and protect the free choice of individual employees to form, join, or 
assist labor organizations, or to refrain from such activities.


                                 S. 548

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 548, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reform the low-income housing credit, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to count a period of 
receipt of outpatient observation services in a hospital toward 
satisfying the 3-day inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of 
skilled nursing facility services under Medicare.


                                 S. 583

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 583, a bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize COPS grantees to use grant funds 
to hire veterans as career law enforcement officers, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 594

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 594, a bill to authorize the Secretary of Homeland 
Security to work with cybersecurity consortia for training, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 655

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 655, a bill to exempt 
certain 16- and 17-year-old individuals employed in logging operations 
from child labor laws.


                                 S. 697

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 697, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to lower the mileage threshold for 
deduction in determining adjusted gross income of certain expenses of 
members of reserve components of the Armed Forces, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 722, a bill to 
impose sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic 
missile program, support for acts of international terrorism, and 
violations of human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 792

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 792, a bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
Act to establish an H-2B temporary non-agricultural work visa program, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for employer-
provided education assistance to employer payments of student loans.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 808, a bill to 
provide protections for certain sports medicine professionals who 
provide certain medical services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 811

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 811, a bill to ensure that 
organizations with religious or moral convictions are allowed to 
continue to provide services for children.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with disabilities to 
save additional amounts in their ABLE accounts above the current annual 
maximum contribution if they work and earn income.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 829, a bill to reauthorize the 
Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and 
Safety Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency 
Response grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 835

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 835, a bill to require the 
Supreme Court of the United States to promulgate a code of ethics.


                                 S. 845

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 845, a bill to 
protect sensitive community locations from harmful immigration 
enforcement action, and for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 59

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 59, a 
resolution expressing the support for the designation of February 12, 
2017, as ``Darwin Day'' and recognizing the importance of science in 
the betterment of humanity.


                               S. RES. 87

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), 
the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. 
Booker) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 87, a resolution expressing the sense of the 
Senate concerning the ongoing conflict in Syria as it reaches its six-
year mark in March, the ensuing humanitarian crisis in Syria and 
neighboring countries, the resulting humanitarian and national security 
challenges, and the urgent need for a political solution to the crisis.


                              S. RES. 106

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 106, a 
resolution expressing the sense of the Senate to support the 
territorial integrity of Georgia.


                              S. RES. 114

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 114, a resolution expressing the sense of the 
Senate on humanitarian crises in Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan, and 
Yemen.


                              S. RES. 116

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker), the 
Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. Markey) were

[[Page S2427]]

added as cosponsors of S. Res. 116, a resolution condemning the Assad 
regime for its continued use of chemical weapons against the Syrian 
people.


                              S. RES. 118

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. Res. 118, a resolution condemning hate crime and any other form of 
racism, religious or ethnic bias, discrimination, incitement to 
violence, or animus targeting a minority in the United States.

                          ____________________



