

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H716-H717]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  KENNESAW MOUNTAIN NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT ACT

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 558) to adjust the boundary of the Kennesaw Mountain 
National Battlefield Park to include the Wallis House and Harriston 
Hill, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 558

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Kennesaw Mountain National 
     Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       The Congress finds the following:
       (1) Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park was 
     authorized as a unit of the National Park System on June 26, 
     1935. Prior to 1935, parts of the park had been acquired and 
     protected by Civil War veterans and the War Department.
       (2) Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park protects 
     Kennesaw Mountain and Kolb's Farm, which are battle sites 
     along the route of General Sherman's 1864 campaign to take 
     Atlanta.
       (3) Most of the park protects Confederate positions and 
     strategy. The Wallis House is one of the few original 
     structures remaining from the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain 
     associated with Union positions and strategy.
       (4) The Wallis House is strategically located next to a 
     Union signal station at Harriston Hill.

     SEC. 3. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT; LAND ACQUISITION; 
                   ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) Boundary Adjustment.--The boundary of the Kennesaw 
     Mountain National Battlefield Park is modified to include the 
     approximately 8 acres identified as ``Wallis House and 
     Harriston Hill'', and generally depicted on the map titled 
     ``Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park, Proposed 
     Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 325/80,020, and dated 
     February 2010.
       (b) Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) shall be on 
     file and available for inspection in the appropriate offices 
     of the National Park Service.
       (c) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary of the Interior is 
     authorized to acquire, from willing owners only, land or 
     interests in land described in subsection (a) by donation or 
     exchange.
       (d) Administration of Acquired Lands.--The Secretary of the 
     Interior shall administer land and interests in land acquired 
     under this section as part of the Kennesaw Mountain National 
     Battlefield Park in accordance with applicable laws and 
     regulations.
       (e) Written Consent of Owner.--No non-Federal property may 
     be included in the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield 
     Park without the written consent of the owner. This provision 
     shall apply only to those portions of the Park added under 
     subsection (a).
       (f) No Use of Condemnation.--The Secretary of the Interior 
     may not acquire by condemnation any land or interests in land 
     under this Act or for the purposes of this Act.
       (g) No Buffer Zone Created.--Nothing in this Act, the 
     establishment of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield 
     Park, or the management plan for the Kennesaw Mountain 
     National Battlefield Park shall be construed to create buffer 
     zones outside of the Park. That activities or uses can be 
     seen, heard, or detected from areas within the Kennesaw 
     Mountain National Battlefield Park shall not preclude, limit, 
     control, regulate or determine the conduct or management of 
     activities or uses outside the Park.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. McClintock) and the gentleman from the Northern Mariana 
Islands (Mr. Sablan) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous materials on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 558, introduced by the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Loudermilk), expands the boundary of the Kennesaw National Battlefield 
Park by authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to acquire 
approximately 8 acres of land by donation or exchange only. The 
expanded area includes the historic Wallis House and Harriston Hill.
  The Wallis House is one of the few remaining structures associated 
with the Kennesaw Mountain Civil War battle, while Harriston Hill was 
strategically significant as the Union signal station.
  The Battle of Kennesaw Mountain in June of 1864 was critical to the 
Union campaign to split the Confederacy, and although it was a tactical 
victory for the Confederates, it opened the way for the Union's 
strategic victory of taking Atlanta. The sacrifices of more than 3,000 
Union troops on Kennesaw Mountain made possible Sherman's famous 
telegram to Lincoln 3 months later that ``Atlanta is ours and fairly 
won.''
  These battlefields remind succeeding generations of Americans of the 
price paid by so many for the preservation of our Constitution and the 
liberty it protects and the enormous responsibility that each of us has 
to maintain and defend that same Constitution today. Nearly identical 
legislation passed the House by voice vote in the 114th Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of the bill.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  This bill adjusts the boundary of the Kennesaw Mountain National 
Battlefield Park in Georgia to include two historically significant 
structures, the Wallis House and Kolb's Farm, and to assist in the 
preservation of the story of the Atlanta campaign. Additionally, the 
bill authorizes the National Park Service to acquire by donation 
approximately 8 acres that will be added to the Kennesaw National 
Battlefield Park.
  The Civil War was a significant event in the history of this country 
and remains relevant as we grapple with the civil rights discussions 
today. The preservation of these sites reinforces Congress' dedication 
to equality and enables the National Park Service to interpret and tell 
our national story.
  I thank the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Loudermilk) for continuing to 
support the preservation of the history of this great country.
  This bill passed the House last Congress by voice vote, and I 
encourage its swift adoption today.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1715

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to 
the sponsor of this bill, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Loudermilk).
  Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 558, a bill 
that

[[Page H717]]

will add valuable historic property to the Kennesaw Mountain National 
Battlefield Park, located right in the heart of Georgia's 11th 
Congressional District.
  Our Nation has long recognized the importance of restoring historic 
sites, especially those battlefields where Americans fought and died 
for freedom. Places such as Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield 
Park, where significant battles of America's Civil War took place, 
allow us to look back in time to get a glimpse of the events that 
shaped our Nation. It is extremely important that we understand our 
history; otherwise, we will be destined to repeat the mistakes of our 
past.
  This bill, which passed the House unanimously last Congress, welcomes 
our next generation to engage in the eye-opening stories of our past. A 
recent study of American history education revealed that only 23 
percent of college seniors could identify James Madison as the father 
of our Constitution; however, 98 percent of college graduates knew that 
Snoop Dogg was a rapper.
  Mr. Speaker, it is now more important than ever to ensure that the 
generations following us have access to these historic sites and the 
educational opportunities they provide or we risk losing touch with our 
history. My bill simply allows Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield 
Park to acquire two pieces of property, through donation, that will add 
to the historic and educational value of this historic battlefield.
  One of the properties this bill will preserve is a home that was 
built in 1853 by Mr. Josiah Wallis. Mr. Wallis built this home for his 
family, but it was eventually used as a hospital by the Confederate 
Army during the Civil War. In 1864, the Wallis House fell into the 
hands of General William Sherman of the Union Army during his campaign 
to take Atlanta.
  The house served as Sherman's headquarters during the Battle of 
Kolb's Farm, which was a resounding victory for the Union Army, but the 
victory was not without cost. When the smoke cleared, over 350 Union 
soldiers and over 1,000 Confederate soldiers lay dead.
  Five days later, Union General Oliver Howard used the Wallis House as 
his headquarters and communications center during the Battle of 
Kennesaw Mountain, one of the bloodiest 1-day battles of the entire 
war. This was also the last major battle before Atlanta fell to Union 
forces.
  While the assault by General Sherman was a tactical failure costing 
the lives of over 3,000 of his men, the battle also inflicted heavy 
losses on the Confederates. Having lost another 1,000 men, the 
Confederate Army could not stop General Sherman on his march to 
Atlanta.
  Adjacent to the Wallis House is 8 acres of land known as Harriston 
Hill. This property offers a sweeping view of the valley leading to the 
Confederate line on top of Kennesaw Mountain and was used by the Union 
as signaling positions during the battle. This location is essential 
for park visitors to understand the strategic positions taken by the 
Union and Confederate flag Armies during the battle.
  In addition to being critical sites in Civil War history, the Wallis 
House and Harriston Hill are two of the few original locations 
remaining from the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain associated with the 
Union Army. Most of the park's current attractions correspond with 
Confederate history, and these additions will prove to be major 
historical acquisitions that will enhance the value of the park and 
provide insight into the Union's side of the story.
  In 2002, the Cobb County Government purchased the Wallis House and 
Harriston Hill to prevent the house from being demolished. Since then, 
the county has been seeking to transfer the property to the park. My 
bill simply modifies the boundary of Kennesaw Mountain National 
Battlefield Park to include the house and the hill and authorizes the 
park to acquire the property by donation.
  Along with the Cobb County Government, this land transfer is 
supported by the National Park Service, Kennesaw Mountain National 
Battlefield Park, and several park volunteer organizations and 
historical societies in my district.
  This legislation is an essential step toward preserving our Nation's 
heritage and a valuable part of Civil War history. The Wallis House and 
Harriston Hill will provide tremendous educational and historical value 
to Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park, and it is my hope that 
the park will quickly acquire this property and restore it to its 
original condition for visitors to enjoy for generations to come.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I urge the 
adoption of the bill.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of the bill.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 558.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



