

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H537-H540]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


    RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR THE 115TH CONGRESS

  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I respectfully submit the Rules of the 
Committee on Armed Services for the 115th Congress, asadopted by the 
committee on January 12, 2017.


                       RULE 1. GENERALPROVISIONS

       (a) The Rules of the House of Representatives are the rules 
     of the Committee on ArmedServices (hereinafter referred to in 
     these rules as the ``Committee'') and its subcommittees so 
     far as applicable.
       (b)Pursuant to clause 2(a)(2) of rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House of Representatives, the Committee's rules shall be 
     publiclyavailable in electronic form and published in the 
     Congressional Record not later than 30 days after the chair 
     of the committeeis elected in each odd-numbered year.


                  RULE 2. FULL COMMITTEE MEETING DATE

       (a) The Committee shall meet every Wednesday at 10:00 a.m., 
     when the House of Representatives is in session, and atsuch 
     other times as may be fixed by the Chairman of the Committee 
     (hereinafter referred to as the ``Chairman''), or by 
     writtenrequest of members of the Committee pursuant to clause 
     2(c) of rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives.
       (b) AWednesday meeting of the Committee may be dispensed 
     with by the Chairman, but such action may be reversed by a 
     written requestof a majority of the members of the Committee.


                   RULE 3. SUBCOMMITTEE MEETINGDATES

       Each subcommittee is authorized to meet, hold hearings, 
     receive evidence, and report to theCommittee on all matters 
     referred to it. Insofar as possible, meetings of the 
     Committee and its subcommittees shall notconflict. A 
     subcommittee Chairman shall set meeting dates after 
     consultation with the Chairman, other subcommittee Chairmen, 
     andthe Ranking Minority Member of the subcommittee with a 
     view toward avoiding, whenever possible, simultaneous 
     scheduling ofCommittee and subcommittee meetings or hearings.


   RULE 4. JURISDICTION AND MEMBERSHIP OFCOMMITTEE AND SUBCOMMITTEES

       (a) Jurisdiction
       (1) The Committee retains jurisdiction of all 
     subjectslisted in clause 1(c) and clause 3(b) of rule X of 
     the Rules of the House of Representatives and retains 
     exclusive jurisdictionfor: defense policy generally, ongoing 
     military operations, the organization and reform of the 
     Department of Defense andDepartment of Energy, counter-drug 
     programs, security and humanitarian assistance (except 
     special operations-related activities)of the Department of 
     Defense, acquisition and industrial base policy, technology 
     transfer and export controls, jointinteroperability, detainee 
     affairs and policy, force protection policy and inter-agency 
     reform as it pertains to the Departmentof Defense and the 
     nuclear weapons programs of the Department of Energy. In 
     addition the committee will be responsible forintelligence 
     policy (including coordination of military intelligence 
     programs), national intelligence programs, and Departmentof 
     Defense elements that are part of the Intelligence Community. 
     While subcommittees are provided 
     jurisdictionalresponsibilities in subparagraph (2), the 
     Committee retains the right to exercise oversight and 
     legislative jurisdiction overall subjects within its purview 
     under rule X of the Rules of the House of Representatives.
       (2) The Committee shall beorganized to consist of seven 
     standing subcommittees with the following jurisdictions:
       Subcommittee on Tactical Air and LandForces: All Army, Air 
     Force and Marine Corps acquisition programs (except Marine 
     Corps amphibious assault vehicle programs,strategic missiles, 
     space, lift programs, special operations, science and 
     technology programs, and information technologyaccounts) and 
     the associated weapons systems sustainment. In addition, the 
     subcommittee will be responsible for Navy and MarineCorps 
     aviation programs and the associated weapons systems 
     sustainment, National Guard and Army, Air Force and Marine 
     CorpsReserve modernization, and ammunition programs.
       Subcommittee on Military Personnel: Military personnel 
     policy, ReserveComponent integration and employment issues, 
     military health care, military education, and POW/MIA issues. 
     In addition, thesubcommittee will be responsible for Morale, 
     Welfare and Recreation issues and programs.
       Subcommittee on Readiness: Militaryreadiness, training, 
     logistics and maintenance issues and programs. In addition, 
     the subcommittee will be responsible for allmilitary 
     construction, depot policy, civilian personnel policy, 
     environmental policy, installations and family housing 
     issues,including the base closure process, and energy policy 
     and programs of the Department of Defense.
       Subcommittee on Seapower andProjection Forces: Navy 
     acquisition programs, Naval Reserve equipment, and Marine 
     Corps amphibious assault vehicle programs(except strategic 
     weapons, space, special operations, science and technology 
     programs, and information technology programs),deep strike 
     bombers and related systems, lift programs, seaborne unmanned 
     aerial systems and the associated weapons systemssustainment. 
     In addition, the subcommittee will be responsible for 
     Maritime programs under the jurisdiction of the Committee 
     asdelineated in paragraphs 5 and 9 of clause 1(c) of rule X 
     of the Rules of the House of Representatives.
       Subcommittee onStrategic Forces: Strategic weapons (except 
     deep strike bombers and related systems), space programs 
     (including nationalintelligence space programs), ballistic 
     missile defense, the associated weapons systems sustainment, 
     and Department of Energynational security programs.
       Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities: Defense-
     wide and joint enabling activities andprograms to include: 
     Special Operations Forces; counter-proliferation and counter-
     terrorism programs and initiatives; scienceand technology 
     policy and programs; information technology programs; 
     homeland defense and Department of Defense relatedconsequence 
     management programs; related intelligence support; and other 
     enabling programs and activities to include cyberoperations, 
     strategic communications, and information operations; and the 
     Cooperative Threat Reduction program.
       Subcommitteeon Oversight and Investigations: Any matter 
     within the jurisdiction of the Committee, subject to the 
     concurrence of the Chairmanof the Committee and, as 
     appropriate, affected subcommittee chairmen. The subcommittee 
     shall have no legislativejurisdiction.
       (b) Membership of the Subcommittees
       (1) Subcommittee memberships, with the exception of 
     membership on theSubcommittee on Oversight and 
     Investigations, shall be filled in accordance with the rules 
     of the Majority party's conferenceand the Minority party's 
     caucus, respectively.
       (2) The Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Subcommittee on Oversightand Investigations shall be filled 
     in accordance with the rules of the Majority party's 
     conference and the Minority party'scaucus, respectively. 
     Consistent with the party ratios established by the Majority 
     party, all other Majority members of thesubcommittee shall be 
     appointed by the Chairman of the Committee, and all other 
     Minority members shall be appointed by theRanking Minority 
     Member of the Committee.
       (3) The Chairman of the Committee and Ranking Minority 
     Member thereof may sit as exofficio members of all 
     subcommittees. Ex officio members shall not vote in 
     subcommittee hearings or meetings or be taken 
     intoconsideration for the purpose of determining the ratio of 
     the subcommittees or establishing a quorum at subcommittee 
     hearings ormeetings.
       (4) A member of the Committee who is not a member of a 
     particular subcommittee may sit with the subcommittee 
     andparticipate during any of its hearings but shall not have 
     authority to vote, cannot be counted for the purpose of 
     achieving aquorum, and cannot raise a point of order at the 
     hearing.


                RULE 5. COMMITTEE PANELS AND TASKFORCES

       (a) Committee Panels
       (1) The Chairman may designate a panel of the Committee 
     consisting ofmembers of the Committee to inquire into and 
     take testimony on a matter or matters that fall within the 
     jurisdiction of morethan one subcommittee and to report to 
     the Committee.
       (2) No panel appointed by the Chairman shall continue in 
     existence formore than six months after the appointment. A 
     panel so

[[Page H538]]

     appointed may, upon the expiration of six months, be 
     reappointed bythe Chairman for a period of time which is not 
     to exceed six months.
       (3) Consistent with the party ratios established by 
     theMajority party, all Majority members of the panels shall 
     be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee, and all 
     Minority membersshall be appointed by the Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee. The Chairman of the Committee shall 
     choose one of theMajority members so appointed who does not 
     currently chair another subcommittee of the Committee to 
     serve as Chairman of thepanel. The Ranking Minority Member of 
     the Committee shall similarly choose the Ranking Minority 
     Member of the panel.
       (4) Nopanel shall have legislative jurisdiction.
       (b) Committee and Subcommittee Task Forces
       (1) The Chairman of the Committee,or a Chairman of a 
     subcommittee with the concurrence of the Chairman of the 
     Committee, may designate a task force to inquireinto and take 
     testimony on a matter that falls within the jurisdiction of 
     the Committee or subcommittee, respectively. TheChairman and 
     Ranking Minority Member of the Committee or subcommittee 
     shall each appoint an equal number of members to the 
     taskforce. The Chairman of the Committee or subcommittee 
     shall choose one of the members so appointed, who does not 
     currently chairanother subcommittee of the Committee, to 
     serve as Chairman of the task force. The Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee orsubcommittee shall similarly 
     appoint the Ranking Minority Member of the task force.
       (2) No task force appointed by theChairman of the Committee 
     or subcommittee shall continue in existence for more than 
     three months. A task force may only bereappointed for an 
     additional three months with the written concurrence of the 
     Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of theCommittee or 
     subcommittee whose Chairman appointed the task force.
       (3) No task force shall have legislative jurisdiction.


           RULE 6. REFERENCE AND CONSIDERATION OF LEGISLATION

       (a) The Chairman shall refer legislation and other matters 
     to the appropriate subcommittee or to thefull Committee.
       (b) Legislation shall be taken up for a hearing or markup 
     only when called by the Chairman of the Committeeor 
     subcommittee, as appropriate, or by a majority of the 
     Committee or subcommittee, as appropriate.
       (c) The Chairman, withapproval of a majority vote of a 
     quorum of the Committee, shall have authority to discharge a 
     subcommittee from consideration ofany measure or matter 
     referred thereto and have such measure or matter considered 
     by the Committee.
       (d) Reports andrecommendations of a subcommittee may not be 
     considered by the Committee until after the intervention of 
     three calendar daysfrom the time the report is approved by 
     the subcommittee and available to the members of the 
     Committee, except that this rulemay be waived by a majority 
     vote of a quorum of the Committee.
       (e) The Chairman, in consultation with the Ranking 
     MinorityMember, shall establish criteria for recommending 
     legislation and other matters to be considered by the House 
     ofRepresentatives, pursuant to clause 1 of rule XV of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives. Such criteria shall 
     not conflictwith the Rules of the House of Representatives 
     and other applicable rules.


          RULE 7. PUBLICANNOUNCEMENT OF HEARINGS AND MEETINGS

       (a) Pursuant to clause 2(g)(3) of rule XI of the Rules of 
     theHouse of Representatives, the Chairman of the Committee, 
     or of any subcommittee, panel, or task force, shall make a 
     publicannouncement of the date, place, and subject matter of 
     any hearing or meeting before that body at least one week 
     before thecommencement of a hearing and at least three days 
     before the commencement of a meeting. However, if the 
     Chairman of theCommittee, or of any subcommittee, panel, or 
     task force, with the concurrence of the respective Ranking 
     Minority Member,determines that there is good cause to begin 
     the hearing or meeting sooner, or if the Committee, 
     subcommittee, panel, or taskforce so determines by majority 
     vote, a quorum being present for the transaction of business, 
     such chairman shall make theannouncement at the earliest 
     possible date. Any announcement made under this rule shall be 
     promptly published in the DailyDigest, promptly entered into 
     the committee scheduling service of the House Information 
     Resources, and promptly made publiclyavailable in electronic 
     form.
       (b) At least 24 hours prior to the commencement of a 
     meeting for the markup of legislation, orat the time of an 
     announcement under paragraph (a) made within 24 hours before 
     such meeting, the Chairman of the Committee, orof any 
     subcommittee, panel, or task force shall cause the text of 
     such measure or matter to be made publicly available 
     inelectronic form as provided in clause 2(g)(4) of rule XI of 
     the Rules of the House of Representatives.


        RULE 8. BROADCASTING OF COMMITTEE HEARINGS AND MEETINGS

       (a) Pursuant to clause 2(e)(5) of ruleXI of the Rules of 
     the House of Representatives, the Committee shall, to the 
     maximum extent practicable, provide audio and videocoverage 
     of each hearing or meeting for the transaction of business in 
     a manner that allows the public to easily listen to andview 
     the proceedings. The Committee shall maintain the recordings 
     of such coverage in a manner that is easily accessible to 
     thepublic.
       (b) Clause 4 of rule XI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives shall apply to the Committee.


            RULE 9. MEETINGS AND HEARINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC

       (a) Each hearing and meeting forthe transaction of 
     business, including the markup of legislation, conducted by 
     the Committee, or any subcommittee, panel, ortask force, to 
     the extent that the respective body is authorized to conduct 
     markups, shall be open to the public except when 
     theCommittee, subcommittee, panel, or task force in open 
     session and with a majority being present, determines by 
     record vote thatall or part of the remainder of that hearing 
     or meeting on that day shall be in executive session because 
     disclosure oftestimony, evidence, or other matters to be 
     considered would endanger the national security, would 
     compromise sensitive lawenforcement information, or would 
     violate any law or rule of the House of Representatives. 
     Notwithstanding the requirements ofthe preceding sentence, a 
     majority of those present, there being in attendance no fewer 
     than two members of the Committee,subcommittee, panel, or 
     task force may vote to close a hearing or meeting for the 
     sole purpose of discussing whether testimonyor evidence to be 
     received would endanger the national security, would 
     compromise sensitive law enforcement information, orwould 
     violate any law or rule of the House of Representatives. If 
     the decision is to proceed in executive session, the vote 
     mustbe by record vote and in open session, a majority of the 
     Committee, subcommittee, panel, or task force being present.
       (b)Whenever it is asserted by a member of the Committee or 
     subcommittee that the evidence or testimony at a hearing may 
     tend todefame, degrade, or incriminate any person, or it is 
     asserted by a witness that the evidence or testimony that the 
     witness wouldgive at a hearing may tend to defame, degrade, 
     or incriminate the witness, notwithstanding the requirements 
     of (a) and theprovisions of clause 2(g)(2) of rule XI of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives, such evidence or 
     testimony shall bepresented in executive session, if by a 
     majority vote of those present, there being in attendance no 
     fewer than two members ofthe Committee or subcommittee, the 
     Committee or subcommittee determines that such evidence may 
     tend to defame, degrade, orincriminate any person. A majority 
     of those present, there being in attendance no fewer than two 
     members of the Committee orsubcommittee may also vote to 
     close the hearing or meeting for the sole purpose of 
     discussing whether evidence or testimony tobe received would 
     tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person. The 
     Committee or subcommittee shall proceed to receivesuch 
     testimony in open session only if the Committee or 
     subcommittee, a majority being present, determines that such 
     evidence ortestimony will not tend to defame, degrade, or 
     incriminate any person.
       (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, and with theapproval of 
     the Chairman, each member of the Committee may designate by 
     letter to the Chairman, one member of that member'spersonal 
     staff, and an alternate, which may include fellows, with Top 
     Secret security clearance to attend hearings of theCommittee, 
     or that member's subcommittee(s), panel(s), or task force(s) 
     (excluding briefings or meetings held under theprovisions of 
     committee rule 9(a)), which have been closed under the 
     provisions of rule 9(a) above for national securitypurposes 
     for the taking of testimony. The attendance of such a staff 
     member or fellow at such hearings is subject to theapproval 
     of the Committee, subcommittee, panel, or task force as 
     dictated by national security requirements at that time. 
     Theattainment of any required security clearances is the 
     responsibility of individual members of the Committee.
       (d) Pursuant toclause 2(g)(2) of rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House of Representatives, no Member, Delegate, or 
     Resident Commissioner may beexcluded from nonparticipatory 
     attendance at any hearing of the Committee or a subcommittee, 
     unless the House of Representativesshall by majority vote 
     authorize the Committee or subcommittee, for purposes of a 
     particular series of hearings on a particulararticle of 
     legislation or on a particular subject of investigation, to 
     close its hearings to Members, Delegates, and theResident 
     Commissioner by the same procedures designated in this rule 
     for closing hearings to the public.
       (e) The Committee orthe subcommittee may vote, by the same 
     procedure, to meet in executive session for up to five 
     additional consecutive days ofhearings.


                            RULE 10. QUORUM

       (a) For purposes of taking testimony andreceiving evidence, 
     two members shall constitute a quorum.
       (b) One-third of the members of the Committee or 
     subcommitteeshall constitute a quorum for taking any action, 
     with the following exceptions, in which case a majority of 
     the Committee orsubcommittee shall constitute a quorum:

[[Page H539]]

       (1) Reporting a measure or recommendation;
       (2) Closing Committee orsubcommittee meetings and hearings 
     to the public;
       (3) Authorizing the issuance of subpoenas;
       (4) Authorizing the use ofexecutive session material; and
       (5) Voting to proceed in open session after voting to close 
     to discuss whether evidence ortestimony to be received would 
     tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person.
       (c) No measure or recommendation shall bereported to the 
     House of Representatives unless a majority of the Committee 
     is actually present.


                     RULE 11. THE FIVE-MINUTE RULE

       (a) Subject to rule 15, the time any one member may address 
     theCommittee or subcommittee on any measure or matter under 
     consideration shall not exceed five minutes and then only 
     when themember has been recognized by the Chairman or 
     subcommittee chairman, as appropriate, except that this time 
     limit may be exceededby unanimous consent. Any member, upon 
     request, shall be recognized for not more than five minutes 
     to address the Committee orsubcommittee on behalf of an 
     amendment which the member has offered to any pending bill or 
     resolution. The five-minutelimitation shall not apply to the 
     Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the Committee or 
     subcommittee.
       (b)(1) Members whoare present at a hearing of the Committee 
     or subcommittee when a hearing is originally convened shall 
     be recognized by theChairman or subcommittee chairman, as 
     appropriate, in order of seniority. Those members arriving 
     subsequently shall berecognized in order of their arrival. 
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Chairman and the Ranking 
     Minority Member will takeprecedence upon their arrival. In 
     recognizing members to question witnesses in this fashion, 
     the Chairman shall take intoconsideration the ratio of the 
     Majority to Minority members present and shall establish the 
     order of recognition for questioningin such a manner as not 
     to disadvantage the members of either party.
       (2) Pursuant to rule 4 and subject to rule 15, a memberof 
     the Committee who is not a member of a subcommittee may be 
     recognized by a subcommittee chairman in order of their 
     arrivaland after all present subcommittee members have been 
     recognized.
       (3) The Chairman of the Committee or a subcommittee, 
     withthe concurrence of the respective Ranking Minority 
     Member, may depart with the regular order for questioning 
     which is specifiedin paragraphs (a) and (b) of this rule 
     provided that such a decision is announced prior to the 
     hearing or prior to the openingstatements of the witnesses 
     and that any such departure applies equally to the Majority 
     and the Minority.
       (c) No person otherthan a Member, Delegate, or Resident 
     Commissioner of Congress and committee staff may be seated in 
     or behind the dais areaduring Committee, subcommittee, panel, 
     or task force hearings and meetings.


              RULE 12. POWER TOSIT AND ACT; SUBPOENA POWER

       (a) For the purpose of carrying out any of its functions 
     and duties underrules X and XI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives, the Committee and any subcommittee is 
     authorized (subject tosubparagraph (b)(1) of this paragraph):
       (1) to sit and act at such times and places withinthe 
     United States, whether the House is in session, has recessed, 
     or has adjourned, and to hold hearings, and
       (2) to requireby subpoena, or otherwise, the attendance and 
     testimony of such witnesses and the production of such books, 
     records,correspondence, memorandums, papers and documents, 
     including, but not limited to, those in electronic form, as 
     it considersnecessary.
       (b)(1) A subpoena may be authorized and issued by the 
     Committee, or any subcommittee with the concurrence of 
     thefull Committee Chairman and after consultation with the 
     Ranking Minority Member of the Committee, under subparagraph 
     (a)(2) inthe conduct of any investigation, or series of 
     investigations or activities, only when authorized by a 
     majority of the membersvoting, a majority of the Committee or 
     subcommittee being present. Authorized subpoenas shall be 
     signed only by the Chairman, orby any member designated by 
     the Committee.
       (2) Pursuant to clause 2(m) of rule XI of the Rules of the 
     House ofRepresentatives, compliance with any subpoena issued 
     by the Committee or any subcommittee under subparagraph 
     (a)(2) may beenforced only as authorized or directed by the 
     House of Representatives.


                       RULE 13. WITNESSSTATEMENTS

       (a) Any prepared statement to be presented by a witness to 
     the Committee or a subcommitteeshall be submitted to the 
     Committee or subcommittee at least 48 hours in advance of 
     presentation and shall be distributed to allmembers of the 
     Committee or subcommittee as soon as practicable but not less 
     than 24 hours in advance of presentation. A copy ofany such 
     prepared statement shall also be submitted to the Committee 
     in electronic form. If a prepared statement containsnational 
     security information bearing a classification of Confidential 
     or higher, the statement shall be made available in 
     theCommittee rooms to all members of the Committee or 
     subcommittee as soon as practicable but not less than 24 
     hours in advance ofpresentation; however, no such statement 
     shall be removed from the Committee offices. The requirement 
     of this rule may be waivedby a majority vote of the Committee 
     or subcommittee, a quorum being present. In cases where a 
     witness does not submit astatement by the time required under 
     this rule, the Chairman of the Committee or subcommittee, as 
     appropriate, with theconcurrence of the respective Ranking 
     Minority Member, may elect to exclude the witness from the 
     hearing.
       (b) The Committeeand each subcommittee shall require each 
     witness who is to appear before it to file with the Committee 
     in advance of his or herappearance a written statement of the 
     proposed testimony and to limit the oral presentation at such 
     appearance to a briefsummary of the submitted written 
     statement.
       (c) Pursuant to clause 2(g)(5) of rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House ofRepresentatives, written witness statements, with 
     appropriate redactions to protect the privacy of the witness, 
     shall be madepublicly available in electronic form not later 
     than one day after the witness appears.


                RULE14. ADMINISTERING OATHS TO WITNESSES

       (a) The Chairman, or any member designated by the Chairman, 
     mayadminister oaths to any witness.
       (b) Witnesses, when sworn, shall subscribe to the following 
     oath:
       ``Do you solemnly swear(or affirm) that the testimony you 
     will give before this Committee (or subcommittee) in the 
     matters now under consideration willbe the truth, the whole 
     truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?''


                    RULE 15.QUESTIONING OF WITNESSES

       (a) When a witness is before the Committee or a 
     subcommittee, members of theCommittee or subcommittee may put 
     questions to the witness only when recognized by the Chairman 
     or subcommittee chairman, asappropriate, for that purpose 
     according to rule 11 of the Committee.
       (b) Members of the Committee or subcommittee who sodesire 
     shall have not more than five minutes to question each 
     witness or panel of witnesses, the responses of the witness 
     orwitnesses being included in the five-minute period, until 
     such time as each member has had an opportunity to question 
     eachwitness or panel of witnesses. Thereafter, additional 
     rounds for questioning witnesses by members are within the 
     discretion ofthe Chairman or subcommittee chairman, as 
     appropriate.
       (c) Questions put to witnesses before the Committee or 
     subcommitteeshall be pertinent to the measure or matter that 
     may be before the Committee or subcommittee for 
     consideration.


         RULE 16. PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE HEARINGS AND MARKUPS

       The transcripts of thosehearings conducted by the 
     Committee, subcommittee, or panel will be published 
     officially in substantially verbatim form, withthe material 
     requested for the record inserted at that place requested, or 
     at the end of the record, as appropriate. Thetranscripts of 
     markups conducted by the Committee or any subcommittee may be 
     published officially in verbatim form. Any requeststo correct 
     any errors, other than those in transcription, will be 
     appended to the record, and the appropriate place where 
     thechange is requested will be footnoted. Any transcript 
     published under this rule shall include the results of record 
     votesconducted in the session covered by the transcript and 
     shall also include materials that have been submitted for the 
     record andare covered under rule 19. The handling and 
     safekeeping of these materials shall fully satisfy the 
     requirements of rule 20. Notranscript of an executive session 
     conducted under rule 9 shall be published under this rule.


                     RULE 17. VOTING AND ROLLCALLS

       (a) Voting on a measure or matter may be by record vote, 
     divisionvote, voice vote, or unanimous consent.
       (b) A record vote shall be ordered upon the request of one-
     fifth of those memberspresent.
       (c) No vote by any member of the Committee or a 
     subcommittee with respect to any measure or matter shall be 
     cast byproxy.
       (d) In the event of a vote or votes, when a member is in 
     attendance at any other committee, subcommittee, orconference 
     committee meeting during that time, the necessary absence of 
     that member shall be so noted in the record vote record,upon 
     timely notification to the Chairman by that member.
       (e) The Chairman of the Committee or a subcommittee, as 
     appropriate,with the concurrence of the Ranking Minority 
     Member or the most senior Minority member who is present at 
     the time, may elect topostpone requested record votes until 
     such time or point at a markup as is mutually decided. When 
     proceedings resume on apostponed question, notwithstanding 
     any intervening order for the previous question, the 
     underlying proposition shall remainsubject to further debate 
     or amendment to the same extent as when the question was 
     postponed.


                       RULE 18. COMMITTEE REPORTS

       (a) If, at the time of approval of any measure or matter by 
     theCommittee, any member of the Committee gives timely notice 
     of intention to file supplemental, Minority, additional or 
     dissentingviews, all members shall be entitled to not less 
     than two calendar days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays,

[[Page H540]]

     and legal holidaysexcept when the House is in session on such 
     days) in which to file such written and signed views with the 
     Staff Director of theCommittee, or the Staff Director's 
     designee. All such views so filed by one or more members of 
     the Committee shall be includedwithin, and shall be a part 
     of, the report filed by the Committee with respect to that 
     measure or matter.
       (b) With respect toeach record vote on a motion to report 
     any measure or matter, and on any amendment offered to the 
     measure or matter, the totalnumber of votes cast for and 
     against, the names of those voting for and against, and a 
     brief description of the question, shallbe included in the 
     Committee report on the measure or matter.
       (c) Not later than 24 hours after the adoption of any 
     amendmentto a measure or matter considered by the Committee, 
     the Chairman shall cause the text of each such amendment to 
     be made publiclyavailable in electronic form as provided in 
     clause 2(e)(6) of rule XI of the Rules of the House 
     ofRepresentatives.


           RULE 19. PUBLIC INSPECTION OF COMMITTEE ROLLCALLS

       The result of each record vote in any meeting of the 
     Committee shall be made available by the Committee for 
     inspection bythe public at reasonable times in the offices of 
     the Committee and also made publicly available in electronic 
     form within 48hours of such record vote pursuant to clause 
     2(e)(1)(B)(i) of rule XI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives. Informationso available shall include a 
     description of the amendment, motion, order, or other 
     proposition and the name of each membervoting for and each 
     member voting against such amendment, motion, order, or 
     proposition and the names of those members presentbut not 
     voting.


     RULE 20. PROTECTION OF NATIONAL SECURITY AND OTHERINFORMATION

       (a) Except as provided in clause 2(g) of rule XI of the 
     Rules of the House ofRepresentatives, all national security 
     information bearing a classification of Confidential or 
     higher which has been received bythe Committee or a 
     subcommittee shall be deemed to have been received in 
     executive session and shall be given appropriatesafekeeping.
       (b) The Chairman of the Committee shall, with the approval 
     of a majority of the Committee, establish suchprocedures as 
     in his judgment may be necessary to prevent the unauthorized 
     disclosure of any national security information thatis 
     received which is classified as Confidential or higher. Such 
     procedures shall, however, ensure access to this information 
     byany member of the Committee or any other Member, Delegate, 
     or Resident Commissioner of the House of Representatives, 
     staff ofthe Committee, or staff designated under rule 9(c) 
     who have the appropriate security clearances and the need to 
     know, who hasrequested the opportunity to review such 
     material.
       (c) The Chairman of the Committee shall, in consultation 
     with the RankingMinority Member, establish such procedures as 
     in his judgment may be necessary to prevent the unauthorized 
     disclosure of anyproprietary information that is received by 
     the Committee, subcommittee, panel, or task force. Such 
     procedures shall beconsistent with the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives and applicable law.


                       RULE 21.COMMITTEE STAFFING

       The staffing of the Committee, the standing subcommittees, 
     and any panel or taskforce designated by the Chairman or 
     chairmen of the subcommittees shall be subject to the Rules 
     of the House ofRepresentatives.


                       RULE 22. COMMITTEE RECORDS

       The records of theCommittee at the National Archives and 
     Records Administration shall be made available for public use 
     in accordance with rule VIIof the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives. The Chairman shall notify the Ranking 
     Minority Member of any decision, pursuant toclause 3(b)(3) or 
     clause 4(b) of rule VII, to withhold a record otherwise 
     available, and the matter shall be presented to theCommittee 
     for a determination on the written request of any member of 
     the Committee.


                       RULE 23.HEARING PROCEDURES

       Clause 2(k) of rule XI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives shall apply tothe Committee.


                  RULE 24. COMMITTEE ACTIVITY REPORTS

       Not later thanJanuary 2nd of each odd-numbered year the 
     Committee shall submit to the House a report on its 
     activities, pursuant to clause1(d) of rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House of Representatives.

                          ____________________



