

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S594-S595]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 249. A bill to provide that the pueblo of Santa Clara 
     may lease for 99 years certain restricted land, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Ms. Hassan, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Ms. Hirono, and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 250. A bill to prohibit any hiring freeze from affecting 
     any Department of Defense position at, or in support of, a 
     public shipyard; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, and Ms. 
             Stabenow):
       S. 251. A bill to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory 
     Board in order to ensure that it cannot be used to undermine 
     the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             King, Mr. Reed, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Brown, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Franken, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 252. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to require drug manufacturers to provide drug rebates for 
     drugs dispensed to low-income individuals under the Medicare 
     prescription drug benefit program; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Casey, and 
             Mr. Heller):
       S. 253. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient rehabilitation therapy 
     caps; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms. Murkowski, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             Mr. Tester, Mr. Franken, Mr. Heinrich, and Mr. 
             Schatz):
       S. 254. A bill to amend the Native American Programs Act of 
     1974 to provide flexibility and reauthorization to ensure the 
     survival and continuing vitality of Native American 
     languages; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Cardin, and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 255. A bill to increase the rates of pay under the 
     General Schedule and other statutory pay systems and for 
     prevailing rate employees by 3.2 percent, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 256. A bill to establish the Stop, Observe, Ask, and 
     Respond to Health and Wellness Training pilot program to 
     address human trafficking in the health care system; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. KING (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 257. A bill to clarify the boundary of Acadia National 
     Park, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 258. A bill to provide for the restoration of legal 
     rights for claimants under holocaust-era insurance policies; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Rubio, and Mr. 
             Menendez):
       S. 259. A bill to modify the prohibition on recognition by 
     United States courts of certain rights relating to certain 
     marks, trade names, or commercial names; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Risch, Mr. Roberts, Mr. 
             Portman, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Grassley, Mr. McCain, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Flake, Mr. 
             Heller, Mr. Thune, Mr. Daines, Mr. Moran, Mr. Blunt, 
             Mr. Cochran, Mr. Scott, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
             Isakson, Mr. Shelby, and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 260. A bill to repeal the provisions of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act providing for the 
     Independent Payment Advisory Board; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Mr. King, Mrs. McCaskill, 
             Mr. McCain, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Scott, and Ms. 
             Heitkamp):
       S. 261. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain disclosure 
     requirements for restaurants and similar retail food 
     establishments, and to amend the authority to bring 
     proceedings under section 403A; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Portman, 
             Mr. Casey, and Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 262. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to extend and modify the section 45 credit for refined coal 
     from steel industry fuel, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. Flake, Mr. Manchin, 
             Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Cornyn, and Mr. Inhofe):
       S. 263. A bill to facilitate efficient State implementation 
     of ground-level ozone standards, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 264. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow charitable organizations to make statements relating 
     to political campaigns if such statements are made in 
     ordinary course of carrying out its tax exempt purpose; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. 
             Merkley):
       S. 265. A bill to prevent conflicts of interest that stem 
     from executive Government employees receiving bonuses or 
     other compensation arrangements from nongovernment sources, 
     from the revolving door that raises concerns about the 
     independence of financial services regulators, and from the 
     revolving door that casts aspersions over the awarding of 
     Government contracts and other financial benefits; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 266. A bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic achievements and 
     courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 267. A bill to provide for the correction of a survey of 
     certain land in the State of Alaska; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 268. A bill to provide the legal framework necessary for 
     the growth of innovative private financing options for 
     students to

[[Page S595]]

     fund postsecondary education, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 269. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     property to the Tanana Tribal Council located in Tanana, 
     Alaska, and to the Bristol Bay Area Health Corporation 
     located in Dillingham, Alaska, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Portman, 
             and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 270. A bill to prohibit the use of premiums paid to the 
     Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation as an offset for other 
     Federal spending; to the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mrs. FISCHER:
       S. 271. A bill to strengthen highway funding in the near 
     term, to offer States additional financing tools, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Brown, Ms. Warren, and 
             Mr. Merkley):
       S. 272. A bill to enhance the security operations of the 
     Transportation Security Administration and the stability of 
     the transportation security workforce by applying a unified 
     personnel system under title 5, United States Code, to 
     employees of the Transportation Security Administration who 
     are responsible for screening passengers and property, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
           By Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Hatch, Mr. 
             Heller, Mr. Lee, Mr. Daines, and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 273. A bill to provide for the protection and recovery 
     of the greater sage-grouse by facilitating State recovery 
     plans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
             Durbin, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Wyden, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Mr. Udall, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Carper, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Markey, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
             Hassan, Mr. Brown, Ms. Stabenow, Ms. Cortez Masto, 
             Mr. Kaine, Ms. Harris, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Coons, Mr. Menendez, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Booker, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Franken, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             King, Mr. Casey, Mr. Warner, Mr. Reed, Mr. Schatz, 
             Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Duckworth, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 274. A bill to nullify the effect of the recent 
     executive order that temporarily restricted individuals from 
     certain countries from entering the United States; read the 
     first time.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, and Ms. 
             Stabenow):
       S.J. Res. 16. A joint resolution approving the 
     discontinuation of the process for consideration and 
     automatic implementation of the annual proposal of the 
     Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of 
     the Social Security Act; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Risch, Mr. Roberts, Mr. 
             Portman, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Grassley, Mr. McCain, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Heller, Mr. Thune, Mr. Daines, Mr. Moran, 
             Mr. Johnson, Mr. Isakson, and Mr. Scott):
       S.J. Res. 17. A joint resolution approving the 
     discontinuation of the process for consideration and 
     automatic implementation of the annual proposal of the 
     Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of 
     the Social Security Act; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S.J. Res. 18. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the final rule submitted by the Department of 
     the Interior relating to Non-Subsistence Take of Wildlife, 
     and Public Participation and Closure Procedures, on National 
     Wildlife Refuges in Alaska; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Isakson, 
             Mr. Johnson, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Lee, and Mr. Rounds):
       S.J. Res. 19. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to prepaid accounts under the 
     Electronic Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

                          ____________________



