

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2524-H2525]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         RECOGNIZING JUDGE MICHAEL J. NEWMAN'S ACCOMPLISHMENTS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Ohio 
(Mr. Turner) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. TURNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Honorable 
Michael J. Newman, Magistrate Judge for the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of Ohio, and who is president of the 
Federal Bar Association, for his achievements in piloting a special 
veterans court in Dayton, Ohio.
  With Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and the Dayton VA Medical Center 
both located in the Dayton community, and with the large number of 
veterans residing in my 10th Congressional District, southwest Ohio is 
a prime region for establishing a court that concentrates on veterans' 
issues.
  Judge Newman's veterans court appears to be the first of its kind in 
the State of Ohio, and it aims to address an area of need in the Miami 
Valley, assisting military veterans who have been charged with 
relatively minor offenses get their lives back on track.
  In many cases, treatment and strong guidance is a better course of 
action to remedy misdemeanor Federal offenses than jail time, which can 
lead to a cascade of negative unintended consequences, such as 
difficulty in obtaining employment.
  Thanks to Judge Newman's efforts to cooperate with the United States 
Attorney's Office and the Federal Public Defender's Office, veterans in 
the Dayton, Ohio, area can receive treatment for mental health and 
substance abuse issues, which so often underpin these minor offenses, 
rather than sitting in jail.
  Veterans who decide to participate in Judge Newman's 6-month-long 
pilot program are required to work closely with a Veterans Justice 
Outreach coordinator, who acts as a mentor and caseworker, providing 
guidance, facilitating treatment, and helping secure housing and 
employment.
  Besides meeting with their veterans officer, veterans must also 
attend medical appointments, receive recommended treatment, and not 
reoffend in order to graduate. Upon successful completion, the 
misdemeanor charges are frequently dismissed, allowing former 
servicemembers to truly earn themselves a second chance at life.
  Of the more than 33 veteran participants thus far, 20 have 
successfully completed the program, and several others are continuing 
to make progress as we speak.
  I commend Judge Newman for instituting an innovative Federal veterans 
court program that addresses critical needs within our community and 
resolves programs by rehabilitating rather than simply punishing the 
brave men and women who have served our country.
  I also would like to congratulate Judge Newman for his work in 
implementing a civics program for students to learn about the Federal 
courts. Developing a partnership between the Federal judiciary and the 
Federal Bar Association, these interactive court camps invite 
elementary, middle, and high school students into the Federal courts to 
learn about the third branch of government.
  During court camp, Federal judges meet with the groups of students in 
school classrooms, as well as Federal courtrooms, to teach them about 
the

[[Page H2525]]

selection process for Federal judges, explain how decisions are made in 
both criminal and civil cases, and offer an insider's view on how the 
Federal court system works.
  Under Judge Newman's leadership, the Federal Bar Association's 
partnership with the United States Courts will give thousands of young 
people across the country the opportunity to meet with Federal judges 
and explore the judicial branch of government.
  In Dayton, Ohio, alone, where Judge Newman sits, over 1,000 students 
will participate in the civics program, learning more about the 
Constitution and Bill of Rights, the separation of powers, the role of 
the Federal judge, the structure of the Federal court system, and how 
to become a judge or lawyer themselves.
  The Federal Bar Association has also added a civics page to its 
website to make educational materials available for lawyers and judges 
who choose to serve as mentors in the program.
  In an effort to encourage direct involvement by American government 
teachers and students alike, the Federal Bar Association, again under 
Judge Newman's leadership, is holding a national essay contest for 
middle and high school students on the subject ``What Does an Impartial 
Judicial System Mean to Me?''
  In addition to honoring the student essay winners, the Federal Bar 
Association and United States Courts will also recognize a select group 
of top-notch civics teachers from across the United States.
  As president of the Federal Bar Association and a United States 
magistrate, Judge Newman has spearheaded this effort, publicly urging 
the association's 19,000 members to join him in engaging the next 
generation of attorneys, judges, and legislators.
  I commend Judge Newman on his tireless work to connect our young 
people to the best and brightest in the field of law, and for 
reemphasizing the critical importance of civics in American society.

                          ____________________



