

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2750-H2753]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for himself, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Bera, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Capuano, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Correa, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mrs. Demings, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Engel, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. 
             Esty, Mr. Evans, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Fudge, 
             Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Gonzalez 
             of Texas, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Heck, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. 
             Huffman, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Keating, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Levin, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Ben Ray 
             Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Neal, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Peterson, Ms. Pingree, Ms. 
             Plaskett, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Richmond, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Sherman, 
             Mr. Sires, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Speier, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Titus, 
             Mr. Tonko, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Vela, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Walz, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. 
             Maxine Waters of California, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Welch, Ms. Wilson of Florida, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 1902. A bill to protect our Social Security system and 
     improve benefits for current and future generations; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Education and the Workforce, and Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Courtney, and Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H.R. 1903. A bill to improve compliance with mine safety 
     and health laws, empower miners to raise safety concerns, 
     prevent future mine tragedies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Pascrell, and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 1904. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to align physician supervision requirements 
     under the Medicare program for radiology services performed 
     by advanced level radiographers with State requirements; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr. Issa, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Foster, Mr. Payne, Ms. Bass, 
             and Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 1905. A bill to prohibit Federal agencies and Federal 
     contractors from requesting that an applicant for employment 
     disclose criminal history record information before the 
     applicant has received a conditional offer, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committees on House 
     Administration, the Judiciary, Armed Services, and Education 
     and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Clay, Ms. Lee, Ms. Bass, Mr. Cardenas, and 
             Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 1906. A bill to provide for the sealing or expungement 
     of records relating to Federal nonviolent criminal offenses, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Agriculture, and Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Rush, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Ms. Norton, Ms. Lee, Mr. Hastings, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Richmond, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Bass, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. Norcross, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Payne, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Eshoo, and Mr. Smith 
             of Washington):
       H.R. 1907. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to conduct research and development to mitigate the 
     consequences of threats to voting systems, to amend the Help 
     America Vote Act of 2002 to require the voting systems used 
     in elections for Federal office to comply with national 
     standards developed by the National Institute of Standards 
     and Technology for operational security and ballot 
     verification, to establish programs to promote research in 
     innovative voting system technologies, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     and Homeland Security, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             DeFazio):
       H.R. 1908. A bill to provide for the use of funds in the 
     Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for the purposes for which the 
     funds were collected and to ensure that funds credited to the 
     Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are used to support navigation; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and the Budget, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Norton, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Evans, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 1909. A bill to prioritize educating and training for 
     existing and new environmental health professionals; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to

[[Page H2751]]

     the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. 
             Cook, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Faso, Mr. Jones, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Renacci, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Young of Iowa, and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 1910. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the process for determining the eligibility of 
     caregivers of veterans to certain benefits administered by 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. Schneider, 
             Mr. Roskam, Mr. Engel, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Bilirakis, and Mr. Veasey):
       H.R. 1911. A bill to amend the State Department Basic 
     Authorities Act of 1956 to monitor and combat anti-Semitism 
     globally, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
             and Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H.R. 1912. A bill to ensure that claims for benefits under 
     the Black Lung Benefits Act are processed in a fair and 
     timely manner, to better protect miners from pneumoconiosis 
     (commonly known as ``black lung disease''), and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Denham, 
             and Mr. Cook):
       H.R. 1913. A bill to establish the Clear Creek National 
     Recreation Area in San Benito and Fresno Counties, 
     California, to designate the Joaquin Rocks Wilderness in such 
     counties, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself and Mr. Deutch):
       H.R. 1914. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     grant owners of copyright in sound recordings the exclusive 
     right to prohibit the broadcast transmission of the sound 
     recordings by means of terrestrial radio stations, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 1915. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide the Administrator of the Small Business 
     Administration authority to increase amount for general 
     business loans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Small Business.
           By Mr. SHUSTER (for himself, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. 
             Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Hunter, Mr. Turner, Mr. Moulton, and Ms. Tsongas):
       H.R. 1916. A bill to ensure the ballistic missile defense 
     capacity of the Army; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Sessions, Mrs. 
             Roby, and Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1917. A bill to allow for judicial review of any final 
     rule addressing national emission standards for hazardous air 
     pollutants for brick and structural clay products or for clay 
     ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance with such 
     rule; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Sires, Mr. Duncan 
             of South Carolina, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Yoho, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Cuellar, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             DeSantis, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             McCaul, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Donovan, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, and Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida):
       H.R. 1918. A bill to oppose loans at international 
     financial institutions for the Government of Nicaragua unless 
     the Government of Nicaragua is taking effective steps to hold 
     free, fair, and transparent elections, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FERGUSON (for himself, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, 
             Mr. Barton, Mr. Grothman, and Mr. Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 1919. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify eligibility for the child tax credit; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. UPTON (for himself, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Shimkus, Ms. DeGette, and Mr. Tiberi):
       H.R. 1920. A bill to amend part B of title XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act to exclude customary prompt pay discounts 
     from manufacturers to wholesalers from the average sales 
     price for drugs and biologicals under Medicare, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana:
       H.R. 1921. A bill to amend the Head Start Act to authorize 
     block grants to States for prekindergarten education, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself and Mr. Cummings):
       H.R. 1922. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to establish fair and consistent eligibility requirements for 
     graduate medical schools operating outside the United States 
     and Canada; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 1923. A bill to prohibit the use of members of the 
     United States Armed Forces to carry out offensive combat 
     operations in Syria; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Vargas, and 
             Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 1924. A bill to provide definitions of terms and 
     services related to community-based gang intervention to 
     ensure that funding for such intervention is utilized in a 
     cost-effective manner and that community-based agencies are 
     held accountable for providing holistic, integrated 
     intervention services, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself and Mr. Griffith):
       H.R. 1925. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to protect at-risk youth against termination of Medicaid 
     eligibility while an inmate of a public institution; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Pocan, and Mr. Serrano):
       H.R. 1926. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     ensure that juveniles adjudicated in Federal delinquency 
     proceedings are not subject to solitary confinement while 
     committed to juvenile facilities; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CLAY (for himself, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Ms. 
             Adams, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Bishop 
             of Georgia, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carson of Indiana, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Hoyer, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Rush, Mr. Serrano, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Turner, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Sablan, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Ross, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Graves of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Peters, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Raskin, Mrs. Demings, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 1927. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     establish within the National Park Service the African 
     American Civil Rights Network, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and Mr. Thomas J. Rooney 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 1928. A bill to provide a permanent appropriation of 
     funds for the payment of death gratuities and related 
     benefits for survivors of deceased members of the uniformed 
     services in event of any period of lapsed appropriations; to 
     the Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. CRIST:
       H.R. 1929. A bill to increase the maximum amount of 
     increased cost of compliance coverage available under the 
     National Flood Insurance Program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mr. 
             Peters):
       H.R. 1930. A bill to require the Administration of General 
     Services to issue guidance relating to the procurement of 
     reclaimed refrigerants; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Capuano, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Kildee,

[[Page H2752]]

             Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Lynch, Ms. Moore, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Raskin, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Lipinski, and Mr. Sarbanes):
       H.R. 1931. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to discourage corporate inversions and to impose tax on 
     unrepatriated earnings and unrecognized gains in connection 
     with corporate expatriations; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Foster, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr. Hastings, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Lynch, Ms. McCollum, 
             Ms. Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Ruiz, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Takano, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Lipinski):
       H.R. 1932. A bill to end offshore corporate tax avoidance, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Mr. Fleischmann, 
             Mr. DesJarlais, Mrs. Blackburn, and Mrs. Black):
       H.R. 1933. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow individuals to receive a premium assistance 
     credit for insurance not purchased on an Exchange, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER:
       H.R. 1934. A bill to establish a 5-year ban on individuals 
     appointed to Executive Schedule positions and Members of 
     Congress engaging in lobbying activities at the Federal 
     level; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER:
       H.R. 1935. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for the termination of further retirement coverage 
     for Members of Congress under the Federal Employees' 
     Retirement System, except for the right to continue 
     participating in the Thrift Savings Plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER:
       H.R. 1936. A bill to prohibit congressional recesses until 
     Congress adopts a concurrent resolution on the budget that 
     results in a balanced Federal budget by the last fiscal year 
     covered by such resolution, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Rules, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GARRETT:
       H.R. 1937. A bill to provide loan forgiveness to borrowers 
     of Federal student loans who agree to delay eligibility to 
     collect social security benefits, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GARRETT:
       H.R. 1938. A bill to require the President-elect to submit 
     copies to the Committee on House Administration of the House 
     of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration of the Senate of the Federal income tax 
     returns filed for the 4 most recent taxable years, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1939. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to ensure equal access of Medicare beneficiaries 
     to community pharmacies in underserved areas as network 
     pharmacies under Medicare prescription drug coverage, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr. Carson of Indiana, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Al Green of Texas, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Lee, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 1940. A bill to allow homeowners of moderate-value 
     homes who are subject to mortgage foreclosure proceedings to 
     remain in their homes as renters; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
       H.R. 1941. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to make the exception for returning workers permanent, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
       H.R. 1942. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Comptroller General of the United States to 
     periodically conduct an audit of the Veterans Health 
     Administration budget, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself and Mr. Grothman):
       H.R. 1943. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to ensure that each 
     wheelchair, furnished to a veteran because of a service-
     connected disability, restores the maximum achievable 
     mobility in the activities of daily life, employment, and 
     recreation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Duncan 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Cole, and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 1944. A bill to amend section 100905 of title 54, 
     United States Code, to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     and the Secretary of Agriculture to require annual permits 
     and assess annual fees for commercial filming activities on 
     Federal land for film crews of 5 persons or fewer, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Duncan 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Cole, and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 1945. A bill to establish the Wildlife and Hunting 
     Heritage Conservation Council Advisory Committee to advise 
     the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture on wildlife 
     and habitat conservation, hunting, recreational shooting, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 1946. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     require reporting by the National Institutes of Health on 
     requests for funding research that were not granted and had 
     the greatest potential for improving public health, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 1947. A bill to affirm the religious freedom of 
     taxpayers who are conscientiously opposed to participation in 
     war, to provide that the income, estate, or gift tax payments 
     of such taxpayers be used for nonmilitary purposes, to create 
     the Religious Freedom Peace Tax Fund to receive such tax 
     payments, to improve revenue collection, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself and Mr. Luetkemeyer):
       H.R. 1948. A bill to raise the consolidated assets 
     threshold under the small bank holding company policy 
     statement, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself and 
             Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 1949. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     and the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and 
     Campus Crime Statistics Act to combat campus sexual assault, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Brady 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Evans, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Perry, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr.

[[Page H2753]]

             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Marino, Mr. Barletta, 
             Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Dent, Mr. 
             Smucker, and Mr. Cartwright):
       H.R. 1950. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 120 West Pike Street in 
     Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, as the ``Police Officer Scott 
     Bashioum Post Office Building``; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. 
             Kihuen):
       H.R. 1951. A bill to provide that the salaries of Members 
     of a House of Congress will be held in escrow if that House 
     has not agreed to a concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     fiscal year 2018 by April 15, 2017, to eliminate automatic 
     pay adjustments for Members of Congress, to prohibit the use 
     of funds provided for the official travel expenses of Members 
     of Congress and other officers and employees of the 
     legislative branch for first-class airline accommodations, 
     and to amend title 18, United States Code, to establish a 
     uniform 5-year post-employment ban on lobbying by former 
     Members of Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, and Oversight and Government Reform, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself, Mr. Amash, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Nadler, and Mrs. Love):
       H.R. 1952. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, 
     with respect to the revocation or suspension of drivers' 
     licenses of individuals convicted of drug offenses, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Heck, Mr. Tipton, 
             Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Jenkins of Kansas, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Roskam, Mrs. 
             Brooks of Indiana, and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 1953. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for the coordination of programs to 
     prevent and treat obesity, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. Titus, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Esty, Mr. Peters, and Mr. Sablan):
       H.R. 1954. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     expand health care and benefits from the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs for military sexual trauma, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1955. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to make permanent the extension of the Medicare-
     dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased payments 
     under the Medicare low-volume hospital program; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee:
       H.R. 1956. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     increase the amounts of educational assistance payable under 
     Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Program of 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Gallego, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Lowenthal, and 
             Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 1957. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to address and take action to prevent 
     bullying and harassment of students; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself and Mr. Royce of 
             California):
       H.R. 1958. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     include retrofit loans such as property assessed clean energy 
     loans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Ms. Herrera Beutler):
       H.R. 1959. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the exclusion for employer-provided 
     dependent care assistance; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER (for herself, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Costa, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. McCollum, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Velazquez, and Mr. 
             Yarmuth):
       H.R. 1960. A bill to require the Supreme Court of the 
     United States to promulgate a code of ethics; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. STEWART:
       H.R. 1961. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     land to Washington County, Utah, to authorize the exchange of 
     Federal land and non-Federal land in the State of Utah, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself and Mr. Neal):
       H.R. 1962. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to protect older, longer service and grandfathered 
     participants in defined benefit plans; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself and Mr. Smith of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 1963. A bill to provide protection for survivors of 
     domestic violence or sexual assault under the Fair Housing 
     Act; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS:
       H.R. 1964. A bill to preserve competition among mortgage 
     lenders, provide relief from unnecessary regulatory 
     requirements on responsible community mortgage lenders, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself and Mr. Woodall):
       H.J. Res. 94. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to repeal the sixteenth 
     article of amendment; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Engel):
       H. Con. Res. 47. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that until the conclusion of the FBI's criminal 
     and counterintelligence investigations into the nature of the 
     Russian connection to the Trump campaign, the Trump 
     Administration is acting under a ``gray cloud`` of the 
     appearance of a conflict of interest, and, as such, should 
     refrain from taking any actions or making any changes to 
     United States policy that could be seen as benefitting 
     President Putin or his inner circle; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, and Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself, Ms. Jenkins of 
             Kansas, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Gowdy, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. 
             Norton, Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. Demings, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Granger, Mr. Mitchell, 
             Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, Ms. Lee, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Speier, Ms. Adams, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mrs. Radewagen, Ms. Stefanik, Ms. McSally, 
             Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mrs. Hartzler, Mrs. Noem, Mr. 
             Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Scalise, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mrs. Comstock, Ms. 
             Foxx, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mrs. Walorski, Mrs. Love, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Renacci, Mr. 
             Olson, Mr. Issa, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Conaway, Mr. Stewart, and Mrs. Roby):
       H. Res. 249. A resolution honoring the life and legacy of 
     the first woman to serve in the United States Congress, 
     Jeannette Pickering Rankin, on the 100th anniversary of her 
     swearing-in to Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. 
             Vargas):
       H. Res. 250. A resolution expressing the need to eliminate 
     life without parole for children; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER (for herself, Mr. Payne, Ms. Bonamici, 
             and Ms. McCollum):
       H. Res. 251. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week of April 9, 2017, through April 22, 
     2017, as National Young Audiences Arts for Learning Week; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



