

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1444-S1445]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL CAMILLE M. NICHOLS

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I want to pay special tribute to an 
exceptional officer of the U.S. Army, MG Camille M. Nichols. Currently 
serving as the director of the Department of Defense Sexual Assault 
Prevention and Response Office, General Nichols will retire after more 
than 41 years of Active military service on April 1, 2017. From 
enlisted private, to academy graduate, to two-star general, MG Camille 
Nichols has demonstrated the Army values of duty, integrity, selfless 
service, and dedication to country. Many of my colleagues and I have 
had the pleasure of working with Major General Nichols on a number of 
issues and programs, and it is my distinct privilege to recognize her 
accomplishments.
  MG Camille Nichols began her military career in 1975, as an enlisted 
soldier in the U.S. Army. While serving in Germany and at the 
insistence of her leadership, she applied for acceptance as a cadet 
candidate to the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School, thus 
enabling her to join the U.S. Military Academy Class, USMA, class of 
1981. Upon her graduation from USMA, Major General Nichols was 
commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers. 
Throughout her years of service, Major General Nichols attended 
numerous advanced military and civilian schools, receiving three 
masters degrees, and while working full time, earned a Ph.D. in 
engineering management from George Washington University.
  After serving in several command and high-level staff positions, 
General Nichols developed expertise in contracting and acquisition 
procedures and systems. These demonstrated abilities were recognized by 
her selection as one of the general officers named to stand up the U.S. 
Army's Contracting Command. It cannot be overstated that, in all her 
leadership and staff roles, Camille Nichols positively influenced the 
lives of thousands of military personnel while she did the Nation's 
bidding around the world and at home. From Korea to Saudi Arabia; from 
Operation Iraqi Freedom/New Dawn to commanding general of U.S. Army 
Contracting Command, Major General Nichols has been out front, pressing 
hard to ensure the Army is well-equipped with a 21st century fighting 
force capable of defeating the enemy.
  As the director of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office, 
Major General Nichols' undeterred leadership, soldier-scholar depth and 
breadth of knowledge, commitment to eliminating sexual assault, and 
commonsense approach to problem solving have contributed immeasurably 
to the improvement and execution of Sexual Assault Prevention and 
Response program and the DOD-wide strategy. She also spearheaded 
specialized policies and strategies focusing on prevention efforts, 
combating retaliation, and addressing the needs of male victims. Major 
General Nichols' efforts have been instrumental in shaping and 
articulating program initiatives, plans,

[[Page S1445]]

and objectives to Congress, senior defense leaders, and the American 
public, earning the respect of both her superiors and peers.
  I ask that you and our colleagues join me, as well as Major General 
Nichols' family, many friends, and peers in saluting this distinguished 
officer's many contributions and sacrifices in the defense of our great 
Nation. It is fitting that today we publicly recognize her service and 
wish her health, happiness, and success in the years to come. 
Congratulations, Major General Nichols, on completing an exceptional 
and exemplary career.

                          ____________________



