

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2065-H2066]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK ACT OF 2017

  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 267) to redesignate the Martin Luther King, Junior, National 
Historic Site in the State of Georgia, and for other purposes, as 
amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 267

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Martin Luther King, Jr. 
     National Historical Park Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

       The Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Martin Luther 
     King, Junior, National Historic Site in the State of Georgia, 
     and for other purposes'' (Public Law 96-428) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a) of the first section, by striking 
     ``the map entitled `Martin Luther King, Junior, National 
     Historic Site Boundary Map', number 489/80,013B, and dated 
     September 1992'' and inserting ``the map entitled `Martin 
     Luther King, Jr. National Historical Park Proposed Boundary 
     Revision', numbered 489/128,786 and dated June 2015'';
       (2) by striking ``Martin Luther King, Junior, National 
     Historic Site'' each place it appears and inserting ``Martin 
     Luther King, Jr. National Historical Park'';
       (3) by striking ``national historic site'' each place it 
     appears and inserting ``national historical park''; and
       (4) by striking ``historic site'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``historical park''.

     SEC. 3. REFERENCES.

       Any reference in a law (other than this Act), map, 
     regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
     States to ``Martin Luther King, Junior, National Historic 
     Site'' shall be deemed to be a reference to ``Martin Luther 
     King, Jr. National Historical Park''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Tipton) and the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Brown) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Colorado.


                             general leave

  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous materials on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Colorado?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 267, introduced by Congressman John Lewis, 
redesignates the Martin Luther King, Junior, National Historic Site in 
the State of Georgia as the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historical 
Park. It also authorizes the National Park Service to include the 
Prince Hall Masonic Temple in the historical park's boundaries.
  The Prince Hall Masonic Temple long served as the headquarters of the 
Southern Christian Leadership Conference. This well-known civil rights 
organization was cofounded by Dr. King, who also served as its first 
president. Including the Prince Hall Masonic Temple within the unit's 
boundaries will allow the National Park Service to provide technical 
assistance to the building's owners with regard to repairs, 
renovations, and maintenance that will preserve its historic integrity.
  Our Nation's historic sites and historical parks provide us with the 
unique opportunity to share the very spaces in which the generations 
before us lived and worked. At these sites, Americans are able to 
metaphorically walk in the footsteps of our Nation's Founders and of 
those who followed them and perfected their vision for our country. At 
this time of division in our country, it is important to be able to 
look back at leaders like Martin Luther King, Jr., who promoted unity 
and the dignity of the human person.
  Congressman Lewis' bill before the House today will expand 
opportunities for Americans to learn about the legacy of Dr. King and 
other icons of the civil rights movement. I urge adoption of this 
legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  H.R. 267 is an important and historically significant piece of 
legislation that has broad bipartisan support. In fact, it passed the 
House on a voice vote just over a year ago. The bill accomplishes two 
primary goals: to designate the Martin Luther King, Junior, National 
Historic Site in Atlanta, Georgia, as a national historical park; and 
to adjust the boundary of the park to include the Prince Hall Masonic 
Temple, the first headquarters of the Southern Christian Leadership 
Conference. Taken together, these actions will enhance the National 
Park Service's ability to tell and elevate the story of Dr. King.
  The site, which is the final resting place of the great civil rights 
leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., continues to connect visitors with 
the historical and contemporary struggles for civil rights in this 
country.

                              {time}  1700

  These stories are as relevant today as they were half a century ago. 
By officially designating the area as a national historical park, this 
legislation will provide the site with the acknowledgement it so justly 
deserves.
  Lastly, I want to thank Congressman Lewis, who remains an important 
and iconic civil rights leader, for bringing this important bill 
forward.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Lewis), my esteemed 
colleague.
  Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Colorado and the gentleman from Maryland for supporting this 
legislation.
  I am a proud sponsor of the Martin Luther King, Jr. National 
Historical Park Act.
  First, let me thank each and every member and the staff from the 
Natural Resources Committee for their hard work and support of this 
act.
  Mr. Speaker, this nonpartisan bill will simply change these historic 
Atlanta places from being a site to a park. At no additional cost to 
taxpayers, this bill will create the first national historic park in 
the State of Georgia. This small change will significantly improve the 
way the National Park Service preserves, shares, and presents the 
history of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., site or park.
  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was our moral compass. He represented 
the best of America. His mission was to create the beloved community, a 
community at peace with itself and our neighbors. Throughout his life, 
Dr. King urged each and every one of us to recognize the dignity and 
worth of every human being.
  Passing this simple piece of legislation will improve how this 
important history and legacy is shared with visitors from across our 
country and from around the world.

[[Page H2066]]

  Again, Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the chair and ranking 
member for their support of this legislation.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Johnson).
  Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Maryland for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, today, I rise in proud support, and I join my colleague, 
Congressman Lewis, in supporting H.R. 267 and its efforts to 
redesignate the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site as the 
Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historical Park.
  For decades, large numbers of people have descended on this site to 
see the birthplace where the dreamer was moved by destiny into 
leadership of the modern civil rights movement. The site as it stands 
now, which also contains the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church, has 
faced hardships over the years leading to budget cutbacks and a 
decrease in staff.
  H.R. 267 would increase funding that would help preserve this 
American landmark and increase the size of the park so that future 
generations can continue to visit and enjoy.
  Just like Dr. King never led a march without a plan, we shouldn't 
leave this critical piece of the civil rights movement without a plan 
for its future. We should continue to work to preserve the place where 
Dr. King was born, lived, worked, worshipped, and where he is buried.
  Mr. Speaker, I stand in strong support of H.R. 267, the Martin Luther 
King, Jr. National Historical Park Act of 2017.
  The time has come to update the historic sites and monuments at the 
Martin Luther King, Jr., National Historic Site. This common sense 
legislation seeks to end the current restrictions that prevent the site 
from adopting the proposed ``Martin Luther King, Jr. National 
Historical Park Proposed Boundary Revision'' and reclassifying the 
landmark more appropriately as a ``National Park.''
  Originally, this site established in 1980, encompassed the portions 
of Auburn Avenue in Atlanta, Georgia, the house in which Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. was born, and the Ebenezer Baptist Church where Dr. 
King's family prayed. Public Law 96-428 memorialized these buildings 
with the intent to ``protect and interpret for the benefit, inspiration 
and education of present and future generations the places where Martin 
Luther King, Jr. was born, where he lived, worked, and worshipped, and 
where he is buried.''
  Unfortunately, the MLK National Historic Site remains classified as a 
``National Site.'' The National Park Service defines areas with similar 
geography and size as national parks. The title ``National Site'' no 
longer fits with the current structure of this historic landmark. The 
current boundaries of site limit the National Park Service's ability to 
conserve important landmarks in Atlanta. The provisions outlined in 
this bill will allow the site to expand and in turn preserve the 
history of Dr. King's life for thousands of Americans to personally 
experience and ensure our nation never forgets his dream. An extension 
of the current boundaries of the site would help greater serve the 
mission of the site.
  Dr. King altered the course of American history. Our nation's 
citizens owe a debt to the sacrifices and tireless crusade led by this 
great man. Dr. King encouraged love and empathy for in the hearts of 
countless Americans. His contribution to humanity has been priceless.
  We must never forget the sacrifices made by the heroes of the Civil 
Rights Movement. I stand with my esteemed colleague and civil rights 
champion, Congressman John Lewis, who proposed this legislation. I 
strongly urge my colleagues to support this resolution.
  Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers. I 
again urge adoption of this important legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I take great pleasure that 
we may come to the floor today to celebrate and recognize the 
remarkable legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr. King is characterized by 
modeling his life after Jesus Christ in order to live a life dedicated 
to the service of others, whether that be preaching the Gospel to his 
congregation at Ebenezer Baptist Church, or to the pursuit of justice 
and equality.
  Mr. Speaker, my home state of Georgia has the great honor of 
preserving King's legacy at the Martin Luther King, Jr. National 
Historic Site. And today we have the opportunity under the leadership 
of my friend and fellow Georgian, John Lewis, to pass H.R. 267, the 
Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historical Park Act, to re-designate 
the site as a National Historic Park.
  I strongly believe that this site meets and exceeds the requirements 
for re-designation as a National Historic Park and fully support my 
friend in his effort. Mr. Speaker, I'd like to thank Congressman Lewis 
for leading this legislation. As a cosponsor of this bill, a member of 
the Committee on Natural Resources, and as a fellow Georgian, I offer 
my strongest support and encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of 
H.R. 267.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Tipton) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 267, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I object to the vote on the ground that a 
quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not 
present.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.
  The point of no quorum is considered withdrawn.

                          ____________________



