

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H396-H397]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      EXPANDING MEDICARE COVERAGE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Roybal-Allard) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, since its implementation in 1965, 
Medicare has excluded coverage for hearing aids andrelated audiology 
services, routine dental care, and routine eye exams and eyeglasses 
despite the fact that large numbers ofolder Americans need these 
essential items and services. Today, with well over 100 original 
cosponsors, I will be introducingthe Seniors Have Eyes, Ears, and Teeth 
bill, which will lift these terribly unfair restrictions on the 
population most in needof these services.
  We know that hearing loss affects more than 40 percent of persons 
over 60 years old, more than 60 percent of those over 70,and almost 80 
percent of those over 80 years of age. Yet, sadly, only one in five 
seniors currently diagnosed with hearingissues uses a hearing aid, 
which can range in cost from $1,000 to $6,000. For the more than half 
of Medicare beneficiaries wholive on incomes below $24,150 per year, 
these high, out-of-pocket expenses are out of their reach.
  We also know seniors account for approximately 80 percent of the 2.8 
million Americans with low vision. Routine eye examsfor these seniors 
can cost from $50 to $300 or more, and the average cost for a pair of 
prescription glasses is $196.
  Mr. Speaker, it is increasingly well documented that untreated vision 
and hearing loss not only diminishes quality of life,but also increases 
the risk for costly health outcomes such as falls and resulting 
disability, depression, and dementia. Alsotragic is that nearly 70 
percent of older Americans currently have no form of dental insurance. 
This lack of insurance has beenidentified as the major barrier to 
accessing dental care for seniors. It is a well-known fact that neglect 
of oral health canresult in the deterioration of overall physical 
health and that the lack of access to even routine dental exams and 
cleaningscan exacerbate serious and complicated overall health problems 
that increase with age.
  Expanding Medicare to cover vision, dental, and hearing services is a 
cost-effective intervention because it will preventhealthcare costs due 
to accidents, falls, cognitive impairments and increases in chronic 
conditions and oral cancer. But mostimportantly, giving our seniors the 
gift of hearing, vision, and oral health will go a long way toward 
helping our seniors enjoytheir golden years free from depression and 
social isolation.
  Mr. Speaker, few bills are ever introduced with this overwhelming 
support. Additionally, it has the strong support from theNational 
Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. I invite my 
colleagues to join me and the over 100 originalcosponsors of this 
legislation in supporting dental, vision, and hearing care for our 
seniors.

                                    National Committee To Preserve


                                   Social Security & Medicare,

                                 Washington, DC, January 11, 2017.
     Hon. LucilleRoybal-Allard,
     House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Representative Roybal-Allard: On behalf of the 
     millions of members and supporters of the National Committee 
     to Preserve Social Security andMedicare, I am

[[Page H397]]

     writing to endorse, the ``Seniors Have Eyes, Ears and Teeth 
     Act.'' It is our hope that action will be takenon your 
     legislation during the current 115th Congress.
       The ``Seniors Have Eyes, Ears and Teeth Act'' would help 
     millions ofMedicare beneficiaries who need vision, hearing 
     and dental care, which is not covered by Medicare. Paying for 
     these services isa hardship for many Medicare beneficiaries, 
     half of whom live on incomes below $24,150 per year. Medicare 
     households spend onaverage 15 percent of their income, over 
     two times more than younger households, on Medicare cost 
     sharing and for services notcovered by Medicare.
       Routine dental services are very important to the overall 
     health of Medicare beneficiaries, and today,many Medicare 
     beneficiaries suffer isolation and severe health problems 
     because they cannot afford to pay for vision and 
     hearingexaminations or to buy eyeglasses or hearing aids. For 
     these reasons, the National Committee's current Legislative 
     Agendaincludes support for expanding Medicare benefits to 
     cover vision, hearing and dental health services and 
     equipment, which areimportant for healthy aging.
       Thank you for your leadership on this important issue. We 
     look forward to working with you tosecure enactment of the 
     ``Seniors Have Eyes, Ears and Teeth Act,'' which would 
     improve the Medicare program for today's seniorsas well as 
     future generations of beneficiaries.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Max Richtman,
     President and CEO.

                          ____________________



