

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 9 (Friday, January 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H536-H537]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          115TH CONGRESS STAFF DEPOSITION AUTHORITY PROCEDURES

                                          House ofRepresentatives,


                                           Committee on Rules,

                                 Washington, DC, January 13, 2017.
     Hon. Paul D.Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Mr. Speaker:Pursuant to section 3(b)(2) of House Resolution 
     5, 115th Congress, I hereby submit the following regulations 
     regarding theconduct of depositions by committee and select 
     committee staff for printing in the Congressional Record.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Pete Sessions,
                                     Chairman, Committee on Rules.


          115th Congress Staff Deposition Authority Procedures

       1. Notices for the taking of depositionsshall specify the 
     date, time, and place of examination (if other than within 
     the committee offices). Depositions shall be takenunder oath 
     administered by a member or a person otherwise authorized to 
     administer oaths.
       2.Consultation with the ranking minority member shall 
     include three days notice before any deposition is taken. All 
     members of thecommittee shall also receive three days notice 
     that a deposition will be taken. For purposes of these 
     procedures, a day shallnot include Saturdays, Sundays, or 
     legal holidays except when the House is in session on such a 
     day.
       3. Witnesses may be accompanied at a deposition by 
     personal, nongovernmental counsel to advise them of their 
     rights. Onlymembers, committee staff designated by the chair 
     or ranking minority member, an official reporter, the 
     witness, and thewitness's counsel are permitted to attend. 
     The chair of the committee that noticed the deposition may 
     designate that depositionas part of a joint investigation 
     between committees. If such a designation is made, the chair 
     and ranking minority member of thecommittee that provided 
     notice of such deposition may each also designate up to two 
     committee staff from committees designatedas part of the 
     joint investigation to attend the deposition after 
     consultation with the chair or ranking minority member of 
     thedesignated committees. Observers or counsel for other 
     persons, including counsel for government agencies, may 
     notattend.
       4. If member attendance is required, the deposition will 
     stand in recess for any period inwhich a member is not 
     present.
       5. A deposition shall be conducted by any member or staff 
     attorneydesignated by the chair or ranking minority member. 
     When depositions are conducted by committee staff attorneys, 
     there shall beno more than two committee staff attorneys 
     permitted to question a witness per round. One of the 
     committee staff attorneys shallbe designated by the chair and 
     the other by the ranking minority member per round. Other 
     committee staff members designated bythe chair or ranking 
     minority member, including designated staff from additional 
     committees in the case of a jointinvestigation, may attend, 
     but may not question the witness.
       6. Deposition questions shall bepropounded in rounds. The 
     length of each round shall be determined by the chair after 
     consultation with the ranking minoritymember, shall not 
     exceed 90 minutes per side, and shall provide equal time to 
     the majority and the minority. In each round, amember or 
     committee staff attorney designated by the chair shall ask 
     questions first, and the member or committee staff 
     attorneydesignated by the ranking minority member shall ask 
     questions second.
       7. Only the witness or thewitness's personal counsel may 
     make objections during a deposition. Objections must be 
     stated concisely and in a non-argumentative and non-
     suggestive manner. A committee may punish counsel who violate 
     these requirements by censure, and bysuspension or exclusion, 
     either generally or in a particular investigation, from 
     further representation of clients before thecommittee. A 
     committee may also cite the counsel to the House for 
     contempt. If the witness raises an objection, the 
     depositionwill proceed, and testimony taken is subject to any 
     objection. The witness may refuse to answer a question only 
     to preserve atestimonial privilege. When the witness has 
     objected and refused to answer a question to preserve a 
     testimonial privilege, thechair of the committee may rule on 
     any such objection after the deposition has recessed. If the 
     chair overrules any suchobjection and thereby orders a 
     witness to answer any question to which a testimonial 
     privilege objection was lodged, such rulingshall be filed 
     with the clerk of the committee and shall be provided to the 
     members and the witness no less than three daysbefore the 
     reconvened deposition. If the witness or a member of the 
     committee chooses to appeal the ruling of the chair, 
     suchappeal must be made within three days, in writing, and 
     shall be preserved for committee consideration. A deponent 
     who refuses toanswer a question after being directed to 
     answer by the chair in writing may be subject to sanction, 
     except that no sanctionsmay be imposed if the ruling of the 
     chair is reversed on appeal.

[[Page H537]]

  

       8. Committee chairs shallensure that the testimony is 
     either transcribed or electronically recorded or both. If a 
     witness's testimony is transcribed, thewitness or the 
     witness's counsel shall be afforded an opportunity to review 
     a copy. No later than five days after a transcriptis made 
     available to the witness, the witness may submit suggested 
     changes to the chair. Committee staff may make 
     anytypographical and technical changes. Substantive changes, 
     modifications, clarifications, or amendments to the 
     depositiontranscript submitted by the witness must be 
     accompanied by a letter signed by the witness requesting the 
     changes and a statementof the witness's reasons for each 
     proposed change. Any substantive changes, modifications, 
     clarifications, or amendments shallbe included as an appendix 
     to the transcript conditioned upon the witness signing the 
     transcript.
       9.The individual administering the oath, if other than a 
     member, shall certify on the transcript that the witness was 
     duly sworn.The transcriber shall certify that the transcript 
     is a true record of the testimony, and the transcript shall 
     be filed, togetherwith any electronic recording, with the 
     clerk of the committee in Washington, DC. Depositions shall 
     be considered to have beentaken in Washington, DC, as well as 
     the location actually taken once filed there with the clerk 
     of the committee for thecommittee's use. The chair and the 
     ranking minority member shall be provided with a copy of the 
     transcripts of the deposition atthe same time.
       10. The chair and ranking minority member shall consult 
     regarding the release ofdeposition transcripts and 
     recordings. If either objects in writing to a proposed 
     release of a deposition transcript orrecording, or a portion 
     thereof, the matter shall be promptly referred to the 
     committee for resolution.
       11. A witness shall not be required to testify unless the 
     witness has been provided with a copy of Rule XI of the 
     Rulesof the House of Representatives and these procedures.

     

                          ____________________



