

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S745-S746]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Alexander, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Carper, Mr. Enzi, Mrs. 
             Fischer, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Kaine, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. McCain, Mr. Portman, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 306. A bill to provide for a biennial budget process and 
     a biennial appropriations process and to enhance oversight 
     and the performance of the Federal Government; to the 
     Committee on the Budget.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Coons, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             and Mrs. Fischer):
       S. 307. A bill to enhance the database of emergency 
     response capabilities of the Department of Defense; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 308. A bill to amend title XI of the Social Security Act 
     to require applicable manufacturers to include information 
     regarding payments made to physician assistants, nurse 
     practitioners, and other advance practice nurses in 
     transparency reports submitted under section 1128G of such 
     Act; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 309. A bill to establish a Community-Based Institutional 
     Special Needs Plan demonstration program to target home and 
     community-based care to eligible Medicare beneficiaries; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 310. A bill to clarify that nonprofit organizations such 
     as Habitat for Humanity may accept donated mortgage 
     appraisals, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 311. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize grants for training and support services for 
     families and caregivers of people living with Alzheimer's 
     disease or a related dementia; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 312. A bill to redesignate the Saint-Gaudens National 
     Historic Site as the ``Saint-Gaudens National Historical 
     Park'' , and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 313. A bill to clarify that volunteers at a children's 
     consignment event are not employees under the Fair Labor 
     Standards Act of 1938; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Daines):
       S. 314. A bill to enhance consumer rights relating to 
     consumer report disputes by requiring provision of 
     documentation provided by consumers; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Boozman, 
             Mr. Cotton, Mr. King, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 315. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army to place 
     in Arlington National Cemetery a monument honoring the 
     helicopter pilots and crewmembers who were killed while 
     serving on active duty in the Armed Forces during the Vietnam 
     era, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Barrasso):
       S. 316. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to 
     recognize the authority of States to regulate oil and gas 
     operations and promote American energy security, development, 
     and job creation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Johnson, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. McCain, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Portman, Mr. Daines, and Mrs. Fischer):
       S. 317. A bill to provide taxpayers with an annual report 
     disclosing the cost and performance of Government programs 
     and areas of duplication among them, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 318. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968 to enhance the COPS ON THE BEAT grant 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Rounds, Mr. Franken, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 319. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish within 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs a center of excellence in 
     the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and 
     rehabilitation of health

[[Page S746]]

     conditions relating to exposure to burn pits; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 320. A bill to require the Federal Aviation 
     Administration to establish annual performance objectives and 
     to hold the Chief NextGen Officer accountable for meeting 
     such objectives; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.

                          ____________________



