

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 10 (Tuesday, January 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H552]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Brady of Texas, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             McCaul, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Shimkus, Mrs. Black, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Burgess, and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 582. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     require multi-line telephone systems to have a configuration 
     that permits users to directly initiate a call to 9-1-1 
     without dialing any additional digit, code, prefix, or post-
     fix, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 583. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to revoke certain changes to the ownership 
     reporting requirements for noncommercial educational 
     broadcast stations; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself, Mr. Payne, Mr. McCaul, and 
             Mr. Ratcliffe):
       H.R. 584. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to enhance preparedness and response capabilities for cyber 
     attacks, bolster the dissemination of homeland security 
     information related to cyber threats, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Lynch, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Heck, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             and Mr. Serrano):
       H.R. 585. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to prohibit mandatory pre-dispute arbitration 
     agreements, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Allen, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. 
             Crawford, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Graves of Georgia, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, 
             Mr. Latta, Mr. Long, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Russell, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, and Mr. 
             Woodall):
       H.R. 586. A bill to provide that human life shall be deemed 
     to begin with fertilization; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. KENNEDY:
       H.R. 587. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to provide 
     that any inaction by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
     that allows a rate change to go into effect shall be treated 
     as an order by the Commission for purposes of rehearing and 
     court review; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PALLONE:
       H.R. 588. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to conduct a study on network resiliency during 
     times of emergency, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



