

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2634]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       RECOGNIZING VICTORIA RIOS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize an 
outstanding young lady from our south Florida community, Victoria Rios.
  Vicki is the winner of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge from my 
congressional district, and she is a remarkable senior high student at 
Gulliver Preparatory.
  Her app, Simple Sign, was created out of the most noble and sincere 
desire to help those with hearing impairment, and her app was inspired 
by her special needs younger sister, Zoe.
  Simple Sign is an easy-to-use app that includes photos and videos 
that helps individuals easily and quickly learn sign language through a 
cell phone or tablet.
  The future of our great Nation relies on innovators from all 
backgrounds and walks of life in STEM careers, and I could not be more 
proud of Vicki choosing this extraordinary calling. I hope that this 
accomplishment will inspire her classmates, friends, and other young 
women across south Florida to pursue a career in STEM fields.
  Congratulations, Victoria, and I cannot wait to see all of the 
amazing designs that you will create in the future.


                          2017 AIDS Walk Miami

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to encourage all of south 
Florida to participate in the 2017 AIDS Walk Miami on Sunday, April 23, 
at Soundscape Park located in my congressional district of Miami Beach.
  This 5K walk through the streets of beautiful South Beach seeks to 
cultivate a culture of awareness and prevention, as well as help 
provide services for the more than 15,000 individuals who have been 
impacted by HIV/AIDS in our south Florida community.
  Since 1989, this AIDS walk has been one of Miami's largest HIV/AIDS 
awareness charity event and continues to attract thousands of 
participants from all over the Nation who walk together to raise funds 
to prevent new infections, maximize the health outcomes and quality of 
life of those infected, and ultimately end the HIV/AIDS epidemic in 
south Florida.
  Unfortunately, last year, south Florida led our Nation in AIDS-
related deaths, and Miami was one of the Nation's top HIV hotspots.
  This walk lends vital support to local groups and organizations, such 
as Care Resource and the Food for Life Network, that are working to 
transform the lives of patients and caregivers throughout our south 
Florida community.
  The Food for Life Network food bank provides and delivers groceries, 
meals, and nutritional education to men, women, and children living 
with HIV/AIDS in Miami-Dade County. Since 1987, its staff and 
volunteers have provided over 1.5 million meals and groceries as well 
as other crucial services, such as free screening for sexually 
transmitted diseases, free medical and dental care, access to health 
and nutrition specialists, and so much more, Mr. Speaker.
  Care Resource is improving the health and quality of life of our 
diverse south Florida community, especially those impacted by HIV/AIDS, 
by providing essential health services, such as pediatric and dental 
care, immunizations, HIV primary care, and more.
  It is because of the work and commitment of organizations like these 
that AIDS is no longer a death sentence and patients can live long and 
fulfilling lives.
  So, again, Mr. Speaker, I invite everyone in south Florida to come 
out to the 2017 AIDS Walk Miami and help celebrate our great success 
against this disease and the great progress that we have achieved for 
the thousands living with HIV/AIDS in south Florida and to reaffirm our 
strong commitment to the work that is yet to be done.
  Together we can achieve the goal of an AIDS-free generation in the 
near future.


              Commemorating the Work of The Humane Society

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to commemorate one of the 
Nation's largest animal protection organizations, The Humane Society of 
the United States.
  Each year, The Humane Society and its affiliates provide sanctuaries, 
veterinary programs, emergency shelters, and rescues to over 100,000 
animals, leading in efforts to confront animal cruelty and providing 
care and services to many animals in need.
  In addition, The Humane Society works tirelessly to educate and 
advocate by providing essential training and services to local shelters 
and animal groups lacking resources and through policy initiatives on 
both the State and national level.
  Animal welfare and wildlife conservation are vital to our south 
Florida community. That is why, Mr. Speaker, I am so pleased to pay 
tribute to the outstanding commitment of all the volunteers of The 
Humane Society of the United States and wish all of them great success 
as we continue working together to combat animal cruelty and negligence 
to create a better world for all animals.

                          ____________________



