

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H614-H615]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       STAFF SERGEANT JAMES ``JIMMY'' MORIARTY--TEXAS GREEN BERET

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Poe) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on Friday, November 4, 2016, a 
military base in Jafr, Jordan, was attacked. A hail of violent gunfire 
suddenly rang out while three Americans were returning to base. They 
were ambushed. After the smoke cleared, three Green Berets from the 5th 
Special Forces Group were killed in support of Operation Inherent 
Resolve. One of those heroic men was 27-year-old Staff Sergeant James 
``Jimmy'' Moriarty.
  To be clear, neither the family nor I is satisfied that we have 
received all of the facts about the deaths of those three Green Berets, 
but we do know the facts about Staff Sergeant Moriarty of the United 
States Army.
  Staff Sergeant Moriarty was a Texas native--one of Houston's own. He 
was a proud Green Beret. He was scheduled to come home in 2 weeks to 
spend the holidays with his family. Jimmy was, unquestionably, one of 
the best. Growing up in Houston, he earned a bachelor's degree in 
economics from the University of Texas. He spoke fluent Arabic--maybe 
with a Texas accent, Mr. Speaker. As part of the 5th Special Forces 
Group, he was 3 months into his third tour of duty in Jordan. Upon 
graduation from the University of Texas, Jimmy made the choice to serve 
his Nation in the United States Army. He was a volunteer. He was a 
proud member of the United States Army Special Forces. During his 
service to America, he earned the Good Conduct Medal, the National 
Defense Service Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, 
the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the NCO Professional 
Development ribbon, and an Army Service Ribbon.
  The brave men of the Green Berets are our Nation's warriors. They are 
sent to take on the toughest missions that our Nation faces. From the 
jungles of Vietnam to the desert sands of the Middle East, they are, as 
John Wayne once said, America's best. These men are the warriors our 
enemies fear. They respond to terrorists and other outlaws to keep 
America safe throughout the globe. Proudly wearing silver wings on 
their chests, they are, without question, America's finest warriors.
  Mr. Speaker, in the words of Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell, another 
Texan:

       In times of uncertainty, there is a special breed of 
     warrior ready to answer our Nation's call--a common man with 
     an uncommon desire to succeed. Forged by adversity,

[[Page H615]]

     the Green Beret stands alongside America's finest special 
     operations forces to serve our country and the American 
     people and to protect their way of life.

  Jimmy Moriarty was one of those men.
  Moriarty was loved by his two sisters, who incessantly saw to it that 
their younger brother would be a well-rounded man. It is without a 
doubt that this distinguished soldier will be missed by his family, his 
friends, and his community.
  We grieve the loss of this American warrior, but we celebrate and 
honor his life and his service. We are fortunate to have Green Berets 
like Moriarty standing in support of our country. We are fortunate that 
a man like Jimmy served this Nation as a volunteer. He stood for the 
best of those American ideals and values that the Special Forces 
represent. He was a son of freedom and a son of liberty and a son of 
Texas. He epitomized everything that is good and right about America.
  Our thoughts and prayers go out to him and his family and friends and 
to the other two Green Berets who were killed in Jordan.
  On December 5, 2016, taps was played for the last time as Staff 
Sergeant James Moriarty was buried in the deafening silence of 
Arlington National Cemetery--next to thousands of other Americans who 
gave their lives for this great Nation. Jimmy Moriarty was a rare 
breed. He was the American breed.
  During World War II, General George Patton said:

       While we mourn the loss of such men, we should thank God 
     that such men ever lived.

  And that is just the way it is.

                          ____________________



