

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2099-S2100]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 29

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 29, a bill to permit 
disabled law enforcement officers, customs and border protection 
officers, firefighters, air traffic controllers, nuclear materials 
couriers, members of the Capitol Police, members of the Supreme Court 
Police, employees of the Central Intelligence Agency performing 
intelligence activities abroad or having specialized security 
requirements, and diplomatic security special agents of the Department 
of State to receive retirement benefits in the same manner as if they 
had not been disabled.


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 204

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 204, a bill to authorize the 
use of unapproved medical products by patients diagnosed with a 
terminal illness in accordance with State law, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 233

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 233, a bill to 
authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out certain major 
medical facility leases of the Department of Veterans Affairs.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Sanders) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 322, a bill to protect victims of domestic 
violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence from emotional 
and psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or threats of 
violence against their pets.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult 
day health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 348

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 348, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services to negotiate lower covered part D drug prices 
on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries.


                                 S. 366

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 366, a bill to require the 
Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies to take risk 
profiles and business models of institutions into account when taking 
regulatory actions, and for other purposes.

[[Page S2100]]

  



                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a 
voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 387

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 387, a bill to 
amend the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to subject the 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to the regular appropriations 
process, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 465

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 465, a bill to provide for 
an independent outside audit of the Indian Health Service.


                                 S. 469

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 469, a bill 
to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the 
importation of affordable and safe drugs by wholesale distributors, 
pharmacies, and individuals.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 517

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 517, a bill to 
amend the Clean Air Act with respect to the ethanol waiver for Reid 
vapor pressure limitations under such Act.


                                 S. 552

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 552, a bill to amend 
the Truth in Lending Act and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to 
provide justice to victims of fraud.


                                 S. 595

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 595, a bill to provide 
U.S. Customs and Border Protection with additional flexibility to 
expedite the hiring process for applicants for law enforcement 
positions, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 717

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 717, a bill to promote pro bono legal services as a 
critical way in which to empower survivors of domestic violence.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to 
Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts 
of international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 748

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 748, a bill 
to protect United States citizens and residents from unlawful 
profiling, arrest, and detention, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 751, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use of 
amounts in a National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address 
the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for other 
purposes.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson), the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) 
and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) were added as cosponsors of 
S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent resolution supporting the Local Radio 
Freedom Act.

                          ____________________



