

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S19]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        HONORING DOUGLAS COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPUTY ZACKARI PARRISH

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I rise to speak about a horrible tragedy 
that took place in the early morning hours of December 31 in Douglas 
County, CO, when most Coloradoans were waking up and preparing for a 
celebration that evening to bring in the new year. Hours later, a 
gunman would open fire on Douglas County sheriff's deputies in what has 
been described by law enforcement as an ambush-style attack.
  The gunman injured two citizens as well as Sheriff's Deputies Michael 
Doyle, Jeff Pelle, Taylor Davis, and Castle Rock Police Department 
Officer Thomas O'Donnell. A fifth officer, Douglas County Sheriff's 
Deputy Zackari Parrish, heroically gave his life during this ambush in 
an attempt to save the lives of others.
  Deputy Parrish was 29 years old and is survived by his wife, Gracie, 
and their two young daughters.
  Zack's lifelong dream was to become a police officer. He attended 
Arapahoe Community College Law Enforcement Academy part time while he 
worked full time at a bank so he could make these dreams come true. 
Following graduation, Zack served for 2 years as an officer at the 
Castle Rock Police Department and spent the last 7 months as a Douglas 
County sheriff's deputy. His selfless nature and devotion to his family 
and friends was a testament to his tireless drive to protect his 
community. He was what every officer strives to be--dedicated to the 
job, persistent, and detail oriented.
  At a vigil to honor Zack earlier this week, his fellow deputies 
shared Zack's ``knack for finding things other cops missed.'' They 
spoke of ``how he always wanted to chase the bad guys'' and how, even 
when it was time to go home, Zack would ``stay late to make one more 
check on patrol.'' His family and friends spoke of how Zack was known 
for his ``bear-sized love'' and even more so for his bear-sized hugs.
  These are the qualities of those who righteously wear the blue 
uniform. These are the qualities that keep the rest of us safe and 
sound. These are the qualities of a hero. Zack, like all law 
enforcement officers, went to work each and every day being prepared to 
walk that thin blue line.
  Colleagues at the vigil spoke about how Zack was not only dedicated 
to the difficult parts of the job but also to lifting the spirits of 
his fellow officers. According to his fellow deputies, Zack was known 
as the guy who would ``hunt for the best Christmas lights.'' It is that 
kind of passion, good nature, and of course love for his community that 
Zack will be remembered for.
  As we saw on New Year's Eve, while the rest of us spent time with our 
families and friends, our brave law enforcement officers were 
protecting our communities. Their sacrifice is why we were able to 
celebrate with our loved ones.
  We owe so much to Zack and the law enforcement officers across 
Colorado and across the country for their service. When a tragic event 
like this unfolds, I am often reminded of the words of LTC Dave 
Grossman, who wrote that American law enforcement is the loyal and 
brave sheep dog that is always standing watch for the wolf that lurks 
in the dark.
  Regardless of their personal safety, our law enforcement officers run 
toward the danger. They are always there to help others serve our 
communities, and often through the worst of times, they provide hope 
and safety to our families, including mine, including yours.
  I continue to pray--and let all of us continue to pray--for the other 
four officers and two citizens who were injured in the attack. We must 
continue to honor Zack's memory and support his brothers in blue as 
they continue his work and support his dearly loved family as they 
begin the new year in a way they never could have imagined. We honor 
his legacy and those who serve.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



