

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1204-S1212]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of 
Elizabeth L. Branch, of Georgia, to be United States Circuit Judge for 
the Eleventh Circuit.
  Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                     Tribute to Marian Benton Tasco

  Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise today to commemorate Black History 
Month and to pay tribute to a Pennsylvanian who has dedicated her life 
to public service.
  Today, we honor former Philadelphia councilwoman Marian Benton Tasco, 
whose 50-year career in public service has improved the lives of 
countless people in our State. Throughout her career, Marian Tasco 
consistently fought for the people of her community. From her first 
days as a typist working in the city of Philadelphia to the end of her 
seventh term serving on

[[Page S1205]]

the city council, Marian Tasco's life has been dedicated to helping 
people. Today we celebrate Marian's commitment to public service.
  Born during the days of segregation in Greensboro, NC, Marian Tasco 
was joyfully raised through the love and care of her mother, Mazie 
Benton; her great-grandmother, Susie Short; and her grandparents, Alice 
and Thomas Benton. At an early age, Marian expressed an interest in 
community service through volunteer activities with the Brownies and 
Girl Scouts of America. Even as a child, Marian Tasco was inspired to 
help others.
  It was at this point in her life that Marian imagined that she would 
go on to become an educator. With that goal in mind, she began her 
education at Bennett College, a historically Black liberal arts college 
for women, which is located in Greensboro. Marian worked during the 
summers to pay for her tuition. After 2 years, Marian had to leave 
Bennett when she could no longer afford to pay the cost of tuition. 
Later in life, Marian would return to Bennett College as a member of 
the board of trustees and actively work to support the growth of the 
college.
  After leaving Bennett, Marian Tasco moved to Philadelphia to be with 
her family and to continue her education at Temple University. Again 
working to pay her way through school, she attended classes at night 
until her graduation.
  While she maintained a strong interest in serving others, she decided 
that, rather than education, politics and government would be her venue 
for service. In 1959, Marian began her work for the city of 
Philadelphia as a clerk typist I in the Philadelphia Police 
Department's Pawn Brokers Division. As a result of her diligent work, 
not long thereafter, she was promoted to clerk typist II. In this new 
role, she was reassigned to the registrar's office of the Philadelphia 
Museum of Art.
  Like many others who have served the public, Marian Tasco's story in 
politics began on the frontlines of the community--the community she 
would later go on to serve.
  Under the leadership of a distinguished lawyer, Charles Bowser, 
Marian served as a task force coordinator for the Greater Philadelphia 
Urban Affairs Coalition. This is an organization that she continues to 
serve today as a board member. One of Marian's greatest accomplishments 
was the creation of a youth-focused summer work program that still 
exists today. Her experience at the Urban Affairs Coalition affirmed 
her interest in public affairs and community outreach and helped 
increase her understanding of the needs of the African-American 
community in Philadelphia.
  As her career progressed and new opportunities emerged, Marian Tasco 
remained committed to the path of service. Following her work as an 
assistant to the former secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 
C. Delores Tucker, Marian brought her passion for service to the office 
of the late U.S. Congressman William H. Gray III. He also, of course, 
served as House majority whip and chairman of the Budget Committee. She 
worked as both campaign manager and director of constituent services 
for Congressman Gray.
  Serving with Secretary Tucker and Congressman Gray made Marian Tasco 
worthy of recognition, but Marian wanted to do more. She decided that 
with her years of experience in community activism and public service, 
she would seek elected office. It was at the urging of Marian's mentor, 
former Representative, City Councilman, and Secretary of Public Welfare 
John White, Jr., that she made the decision to seek elected office.
  In 1983, Marian became the first African American elected 
Philadelphia city commissioner. Instantly, she helped develop voter 
education and registration programs in the city and worked to grow 
civic education focusing on Philadelphia's young people.
  In 1988, Marian began her first term on the Philadelphia City Council 
as a representative for the ninth district of the city. For over 27 
years, she served in a number of communities, including East Oak Lane, 
West Oak Lane, Mount Airy, Olney, Logan, Lawncrest, and Oxford Circle. 
She would go on to be reelected seven times and pioneer initiatives to 
improve the quality of life for Philadelphians young and old.
  Throughout her tenure in office, Councilwoman Tasco's role continued 
to grow in responsibility and scope. She eventually rose to serve as 
Philadelphia City Council's majority leader, as well as majority whip.
  Marian Tasco has served as ward leader for the 50th Ward of 
Philadelphia for the last three decades. She was also unanimously 
elected by the Pennsylvania Democratic State Committee to represent 
Pennsylvania on the Democratic National Committee. In this DNC role, 
Councilwoman Tasco's reach grew beyond Philadelphia into the national 
political arena.
  She helped institute meaningful change in Philadelphia and literally 
across the Nation. Among other issues, she worked to fight predatory 
lending, and her work in that area positively impacted the lives of 
many Philadelphians. Her commitment to ``protect Americans from 
unscrupulous dealings of financial institutions'' spanned both Broad 
Street and Wall Street and helped inspire some of President Barack 
Obama's work. Her advocacy on this issue dates back to the early 1990s, 
when she worked with community organizations to alert Philadelphia 
residents about the potential harm of money offered by loan sharks. In 
2004, she briefed then-State Senator Obama on the issue during his 
campaign for the U.S. Senate. In commemoration of her efforts, 
President Obama invited Councilwoman Tasco to join him for the signing 
of the historic Dodd-Frank legislation.
  Marian Tasco's accomplishments in public office made Philadelphia a 
better place to live and work, and the people of Pennsylvania's largest 
city remembered. Her retirement celebrations had over 1,200 attendees, 
including elected officials, labor leaders, community leaders, clergy, 
and, of course, constituents--the people she served. Councilwoman Tasco 
is a beloved figure throughout the city of Philadelphia and beyond. She 
is beloved by her peers and those she represented as a councilwoman.
  Marian's work in public service was a shining example for others to 
follow. Philadelphia mayor and former city council member Jim Kenney 
and former mayor and councilman Michael Nutter have both cited the 
councilwoman as a mentor. In fact, Mayor Kenney even noted that 
Councilwoman Tasco ``raised him'' from the age of 32, when he was a new 
council member.
  She also has a proven legacy of recognizing and developing young 
talent on her own team. Two current members of the Philadelphia City 
Council, Derrick Green and Cherelle Parker, and the late Judge Brenda 
Frazier-Clemons all served as members of her staff.
  Councilwoman Marian Tasco's lifetime of service has been the subject 
of commendation. She has received a notable list of awards and honors, 
including an honorary doctorate of laws degree from Lincoln University. 
Her years of work to improve the city of Philadelphia resulted in a 
lifetime appointment to the Board of Directors of City Trusts, the 
Philadelphia Cultural Fund, and the Pennsylvania Convention Center 
Authority Board, just to name a few. For her advocacy on behalf of 
behavioral health programs and work to push local healthcare reforms, 
the former Lindley Court senior living apartments were renamed in her 
honor.
  Marian Tasco has spent the better part of her life working to improve 
her community, and she has inspired the next generation of public 
servants. As we celebrate this Black History Month, we honor those who 
have made a real commitment to serve others. Marian Tasco has always 
honored that commitment.
  On behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the city of 
Philadelphia, and all those whose lives have been impacted and inspired 
by her work, it is my privilege on this day to pay tribute to Marian 
Tasco, a former member and leader of the City Council of Philadelphia 
and a devoted public servant who worked her way from clerk typist I to 
citywide leader with national impact.
  Well done, Marian. Your adopted city and our Commonwealth are proud 
of your noble work.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.

[[Page S1206]]

  

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                            School Violence

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today marks nearly 2 weeks since the murder 
of 17 students and staff in Parkland, FL. May today also mark the 
moment that we resolved to do something about school violence. May it 
mark the moment that left and right determined to lay aside their 
differences and work together to prevent future tragedies.
  To keep our children safe from harm, there is no panacea, no one 
legislative solution, and it disheartens me when I hear talk about what 
can't be done. It is time to focus on what can be done.
  Fortunately, solutions on the State level--including in my home State 
of Utah--can help show us the way forward. Working in the realm of the 
possible, Utah State legislators have come together to forge bipartisan 
solutions to stop school violence. When I was in Salt Lake last week, I 
learned firsthand about the Safe Utah smartphone app. The Safe Utah 
crisis text and tip line is a statewide service that provides real-time 
crisis intervention to use through texting and a confidential tip 
program. Licensed clinicians from the University Neuropsychiatric 
Institute at the University of Utah Health respond to all incoming 
chats, texts, and calls 24/7 by providing supporting or crisis 
counseling, suicide prevention, and referral services.
  The Safe Utah Program--developed with funding from the Utah State 
Legislature in collaboration with the University Neuropsychiatric 
Institute, the Utah State Office of Education, the Utah Office of the 
Attorney General, and the Utah Anti-Bullying Coalition--is a testament 
to what can be done when mental health, education, and law enforcement 
agencies work together to prevent student violence.
  Not only is the app innovative, it works. Since the app was unveiled 
in 2016, 86 planned school attacks have been stopped. Think about that, 
86 school attacks stopped in a relatively small State. That number 
translates to dozens of lives saved and hundreds of heartbreaks spared. 
For thousands of families across the State, this simple app made a 
world of difference. Imagine the potential if these kinds of 
technologies were available to students across the country. We could 
quickly get help for those who need it and, in the process, save 
countless lives.
  That is why, later this week, I will introduce the Students, 
Teachers, and Officers Preventing School Violence Act, or the STOP 
School Violence Act. My bill makes Department of Justice grants 
available to States to fund programs designed to reduce school 
violence.
  To that end, the STOP School Violence Act will fund four initiatives. 
First, it will provide grant funding for evidence-based training to 
prevent student violence against others and self, including training 
for local law enforcement officers, school personnel, and students. 
This is not just active shooter training but training designed to give 
students and teachers the knowledge to recognize and properly respond 
to warning signals or signals to stop school violence before it occurs.
  Second, the bill will fund evidence-based technology and equipment to 
improve security and prevent school violence. This includes the 
development and operation of anonymous reporting systems like the Safe 
Utah app, as well as improvements to school security infrastructure to 
deter and respond to threats of school violence, and, when prevention 
efforts fall short--as they unfortunately will in some cases--locks on 
classroom doors, reinforced entryways, and other commonsense security 
infrastructure improvements will help.
  Third, the bill will provide funding for the development and 
operation of evidence-based school threat assessment and crisis 
intervention teams, which may include evidence-based training for 
school officials in responding to mental health crises. Again, school 
personnel need the tools to assess and respond to threats before they 
materialize, including those threats that originate from individuals 
struggling with mental health issues.
  Finally, the bill will provide funding for continued coordination 
with local law enforcement. Law enforcement alone cannot prevent school 
violence--just as no amount of prevention training, security 
infrastructure improvements, or mental health resources would be able 
to singularly prevent tragedies like that in Parkland, but law 
enforcement, and in particular those officers who already staff 
schools, have an important role to play in any comprehensive solution 
to prevent school violence.
  Now, some of you may point out something my bill will not address, 
and that is guns. On this issue, many reforms have been proposed over 
the last 12 days--some old and some new. I believe we can find common 
ground here, too, such as that outlined in the bipartisan Fix NICS Act, 
which ensures that our background check system is operating as 
designed.
  A background check is only as good as the records in the database. 
The FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System is 
currently incomplete because many Federal agencies and States have not 
provided all records that establish someone as prohibited from owning a 
firearm under current law, especially those related to mental health 
adjudications and involuntary commitment orders.
  The bipartisan Fix NICS Act will ensure more of those records make it 
into the database by holding Federal agencies accountable for uploading 
relevant records and incentivizing States to upload all relevant 
information. Including these missing records will help ensure more 
accurate and complete background checks, thereby keeping dangerous 
weapons out of the hands of felons, fugitives, drug addicts, persons 
with serious mental illness, and other prohibited persons.
  I will be the first to admit there is no single, perfect solution--
not the STOP School Violence Act and not the Fix NICS Act, but both of 
these bills can help save lives. Remember the 86 planned school attacks 
since the Save Utah app was unveiled and remember the 26 lives that 
might have been spared if the domestic violence offense of the shooter 
in Sutherland Springs, TX, had been properly entered into the FBI 
background check database.
  Now is not the time for argument but for action. Rather than letting 
the perfect be the enemy of the good, I implore my friends on both 
sides of the aisle to come together for the safety of our children. 
Rather than resorting to recycled talking points, I ask my colleagues 
to heed Minority Leader Schumer's call to ``pass real legislation that 
makes a difference.'' Rather than retreating to our partisan foxholes, 
I call on Republicans and Democrats alike to surrender their rhetorical 
weapons. For the good of the Nation, and the good of our children, all 
of us must look beyond the horizon of our political differences to find 
common ground.
  Is this legislation enough to solve the problem of school violence? 
No. Quite frankly, it is not enough, but it is a start, and it is a 
start upon which we can all agree. We will not solve the problem of 
school violence overnight, but with incremental efforts--such as the 
legislation I have proposed--we can make a lasting difference and even 
save thousands of lives.
  So let's not delay any further. We owe it to our children, and to all 
of those affected by gun violence, to take decisive action in those 
areas where we do agree. This is important stuff. We can't just throw 
in the sponge and act like we have this problem solved when we still 
have work to do. So I hope we will take heed to what I have just 
suggested--I think it can be very helpful to us--and we follow the 
suggestions I have made here today.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                   Parkland, Florida, School Shooting

  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I bring a 
report to the Senate from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in 
Parkland, FL, a suburb of Ft. Lauderdale. The teachers and staff of the 
school returned to work today, which is less than 2 weeks after a 
former student walked on to the campus with an AR-15 and opened fire on 
all three floors of a classroom building.

[[Page S1207]]

  I have spent time the past couple of weeks in Parkland, visiting with 
some of the families. Those of us who are parents can only imagine the 
grief and anger that they are feeling, just like the grief and anger 
after every one of these massacres. I have also spent time meeting with 
some of the courageous students who have turned this tragedy into a 
call for action. As I have suggested to them, their hope gives me hope. 
Their determination gives me all the more determination. These students 
have told us over and over that they don't plan to stop until Congress 
and the State legislators around the country start enacting commonsense 
gun reform. They have said that they are not going to stop, and neither 
am I.
  What happened at that high school shouldn't happen anywhere in this 
country. It shouldn't have happened in Columbine. It shouldn't have 
happened in Newtown. It shouldn't have happened in Orlando. It 
shouldn't have happened at the Ft. Lauderdale airport or Parkland. It 
shouldn't happen, period. Now it is up to us to make sure that it never 
happens again.
  This Senator grew up on a ranch. I have always had guns. I have 
hunted all my life. I still hunt with my son. An AR-15 or a SIG Sauer 
MCX, the gun that was used at the Pulse nightclub, is not for hunting; 
they are for killing. Yet, despite these horrific events, these 
devastating tragedies are occurring throughout our country over and 
over, and Congress refuses to act. Why is it that we can't enact the 
most commonsense measures to protect the people we represent?
  We need a comprehensive background check on the purchase of a weapon, 
a commonsense background check that would not only include if there is 
a criminal record or if someone has been adjudicated mentally 
incompetent but all the other myriad reasons, all the other things 
surrounding mental health. Was the shooter on the terrorist watch list? 
Had Omar Mateen, the shooter, been on the terrorist watch list, he 
would have been caught. He was the shooter in Orlando. We need to get 
assault rifles off the streets.
  Protecting our fellow citizens should be a top priority. If making it 
more difficult for someone to walk into a store and purchase a weapon 
of war will do that, why can't we get that done? Why? I will tell you 
why. Because there are folks who are more concerned about an A-plus 
rating from the NRA than they are about providing those commonsense 
solutions to the problems.
  I want to read something that appeared in a national magazine, 
reprinted in the paper that is published in Broward County, where the 
shooting occurred. It is from a radiologist who is in the trauma center 
at Broward Health, which is a hospital chain organization in the area 
of Broward County. Her name is Dr. Heather Sher. She was working the 
day of the school shooting, and she went to work in the trauma center 
on some of the victims. She has treated countless gunshot wounds in 
trauma centers throughout her career, but this one was the second time 
that she had treated someone shot by an assault rifle like the AR-15. 
Here is what Dr. Sher had to say:

       Routine handgun injuries leave entry and exit wounds and 
     linear tracks through the victim's body that are roughly the 
     size of the bullet. If the bullet [from a handgun] does not 
     directly hit something crucial like the heart or the aorta . 
     . . chances are, we can save the victim. The bullets fired by 
     an AR-15 are different.

  She continues:

       With an AR-15, the shooter does not have to be particularly 
     accurate. The victim does not have to be unlucky. If a victim 
     takes a direct hit to the liver from an AR-15, the damage is 
     far graver than that of a handgun bullet injury. Handgun 
     injuries to the liver are generally survivable unless the 
     bullet hits the main blood supply to the liver. An AR-15 
     bullet to the middle of the liver would cause so much 
     bleeding and tissue loss that the patient would likely never 
     make it to a trauma center to receive our care.

  She continues:

       As a doctor, I feel I have a duty to inform the public of 
     what I have learned as I have observed these wounds and cared 
     for these patients. It's clear to me that AR-15 or other 
     high-velocity weapons, especially when outfitted with a high-
     capacity magazine, have no place in a civilian's gun cabinet. 
     . . . Banning the AR-15 should not be a partisan issue.

  The senseless shootings are not going to stop until we change 
ourselves as a culture. I believe, with these students who have been so 
strong in their statements, so determined to make a change, that time 
might be now. It didn't happen after Sandy Hook Elementary. Nothing 
happened. It didn't happen after the myriad of others. It didn't happen 
just 2 years ago after the Orlando nightclub shooting. Again, it did 
not happen after the Ft. Lauderdale airport shooting.
  Is it different now? It certainly is time for us to come together and 
enact commonsense gun measures to keep our communities safe. It is time 
for us to come together--not as Republicans or Democrats but as human 
beings--and to say that this time it is going to be different.
  You hear so many different things. You hear about mental health, and 
that is certainly a part of it. You hear about school protection, and 
that is certainly a part of it. You hear about the miscues not only in 
the FBI, and that is certainly a part of it, but the miscues in the 
Florida Department of Children and Families a year prior that had noted 
that this shooter--all of those things ought to be a part of the 
solution. If you get right down to it, we ought to come together, not 
as Republicans or Democrats but as human beings, and say that if we 
want to solve the problem, the solution is commonsense background 
checks in order to purchase a weapon and getting assault rifles off the 
streets.
  Let's do this. Let's use this tragedy as the catalyst to enact real 
change in our society--changes that are going to have a real impact. 
Let's make what happened at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School a 
significant moment in this country's history, not because it was one of 
the largest mass shootings but because it was the last.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Georgia.
  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I wish to ask that before the remarks 
that I plan to make now are made and memorialized by the reporter, I be 
able to say to my friend from Florida, on behalf of the people of 
Georgia, who stopped me in the halls and corridors, at the grocery 
stores, the churches--everywhere we went--what happened in Florida was 
an attack everywhere in America, not just in Florida. The tragedy of 
school shootings has magnified itself, so much so that every one of us 
feels it more than anybody realizes.
  I want to share with you the prayers, the hopes, and concern of the 
people of Georgia. It is a pleasure to work together with you and the 
other Members of the Senate so that we can find common ground as we 
move forward to address this situation. Having just been home, and 
being with the citizens I represent, I can say that the first and 
foremost item on the minds of every citizen of Georgia is the tragedy 
that took place in Florida. Our hearts and prayers go out to you and 
all the families and all those who survived the terrible tragedy.
  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I say to my friend from Georgia: 
Hallelujah that you have expressed that heartfelt concern and that your 
constituents in the State of Georgia have been very emotionally touched 
by this whole incident, this terrible incident that we have gone 
through again in this country. I am grateful for the comments of the 
Senator from Georgia.
  Mr. ISAKSON. I thank the Senator from Florida.
  Mr. President, I rise today with a great sense of pride and honor to 
commend to my fellow Senators Elizabeth ``Lisa'' Branch, who has been 
nominated to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit of the 
United States of America by President Trump.
  There are significant reasons why I am so excited to do this. I am 
going to save the most significant for last. One of the things I am so 
proud of in our constitutional responsibility of advice and consent for 
the appointments of the administration is that, every time, we appoint 
someone who is the right person at the right time and the right place, 
and Lisa is certainly that for the court of appeals and for the bench 
of the United States of America and the Eleventh Circuit.
  Lisa was a partner in the commercial litigation practice of Smith, 
Gambrell & Russell, a limited liability partnership in Atlanta, where 
she began her legal career in 1996. She moved on to work in the George 
W. Bush administration from 2004 to 2008 as the Counselor to the 
Administrator of the Office

[[Page S1208]]

of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the U.S. Office of Management 
and Budget and, for 1 year, as the Associate General Counsel for Rules 
and Legislation at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. She served 
for 2 years as a law clerk to Judge J. Owen Forrester of the U.S. 
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. She received her 
BA degree from Davidson College in North Carolina--an outstanding 
institution--and her law degree from Emory University, which is one of 
the most renowned law schools in the United States of America.

  She is a great lady and a great lawyer. She was named to the Court of 
Appeals in Georgia by Gov. Nathan Deal, the current Governor of the 
State, and will serve us in the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals with 
honor and privilege in the United States of America.
  Most importantly, on a personal note, as I make these remarks, I am 
sure my father, Ed Isakson, and his best friend, Harold Russell, who is 
the Russell of Smith, Gambrell & Russell, are looking down from Heaven 
on this occasion today and recognizing it for the following reason:
  When Lisa went with Smith, Gambrell & Russell, she went to work with 
a firm that represented my father and his company--a firm that 
represented me. She is not unknown to me as a person, as a lawyer, as a 
litigator. She is a great individual in our State and has provided a 
great service to our State. She will be a great judge for the United 
States of America. She also worked with Harold Russell, who was my 
dad's best friend, and Harold represented my father for years in 
business.
  I know today, in Heaven, they are looking down during this special 
occasion of an outstanding Georgia jurist who is renowned in our State 
and is about to be confirmed by the U.S. Senate to be on the Court of 
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.
  I commend to my colleagues in the Senate Elizabeth ``Lisa'' Branch to 
be confirmed, and I urge their favorable votes to see to it that takes 
place.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I yield back all time on our side and ask 
unanimous consent that the cloture motion be voted on.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                             Cloture Motion

  Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the Senate the pending 
cloture motion, which the clerk will state.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the nomination 
     of Elizabeth L. Branch, of Georgia, to be United States 
     Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.
         Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Roy Blunt, Tim Scott, Todd 
           Young, Richard C. Shelby, John Boozman, Roger F. 
           Wicker, Marco Rubio, Mike Crapo, Steve Daines, Jerry 
           Moran, Tom Cotton, Chuck Grassley, David Perdue, John 
           Cornyn, John Thune.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unanimous consent, the mandatory quorum 
call has been waived.
  The question is, Is it the sense of the Senate that debate on the 
nomination of Elizabeth L. Branch, of Georgia, to be United States 
Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, shall be brought to a close?
  The yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Corker), the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds), and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan).
  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. 
Rounds) would have voted ``yea.''
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) is 
necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lankford). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The yeas and nays resulted--yeas 72, nays 22, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 37 Ex.]

                                YEAS--72

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--22

     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cortez Masto
     Duckworth
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Heinrich
     Hirono
     Markey
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murray
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schumer
     Stabenow
     Udall
     Warren
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--6

     Corker
     Heller
     Jones
     McCain
     Rounds
     Sullivan
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this vote, the yeas are 72, the nays are 
22.
  The motion is agreed to.
  The Senator from North Dakota.


              Congratulating the U.S. Women's Hockey Team

  Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the U.S. women's 
hockey team for their outstanding victories in the 2018 Winter 
Olympics. All told, the team won four games, including two 5-to-0 wins 
over Finland and Russia, and finished as champions after a 3-to-2 
victory over Team Canada. Their achievement stands as a powerful 
example of hard work, perseverance, and collaboration.
  North Dakota is proud to be represented among the talented members of 
this team by two athletes, the Lamoureux twins, Jocelyne and Monique. 
These sisters are natives of Grand Forks, ND, and alumni of the 
University of North Dakota, where they played three seasons of NCAA 
women's hockey.
  This was their third trip to the Olympics with Team USA, having won 
silver medals in 2010 and 2014 and, of course, now the gold in 2018. 
They have a tremendous collegiate record and a tremendous Olympic 
record now, as well. Across their Olympic careers, they have scored 13 
goals and provided 17 assists, for a total of 30 points. They displayed 
tremendous skill, tremendous work ethic, and a tremendous team spirit 
as leaders of a great women's Olympic hockey team.
  Jocelyne holds an Olympic record now, as well, having scored two 
goals in less than 6 seconds in the match against Finland. However, it 
was in the final game where the Lamoureux twins really shined. It was a 
close game throughout. While Team USA started out with the lead, Team 
Canada came back in the second period with a 2-to-1 lead. Remember, 
Canada had won gold in the last two Olympics. It was Monique who 
brought the game to a tie in the final period, and then Jocelyne scored 
the game-winning goal in the shootout. How great is that? It was 
unbelievable and exciting. It was such a great representation of 
sportsmanship for our Nation, coming back after twice seeing Canada 
take the gold, ending up with silver, and now coming back and winning 
the gold. This ended Canada's four-time gold-winning streak in women's 
hockey. Obviously, it was a joyous occasion--certainly for my State of 
North Dakota but also for our whole country. It is uplifting and 
positive--all the things you want the Olympics to be.
  As they arrive home from South Korea, we congratulate Team USA for 
their historic victory and thank them for representing our Nation with 
their incredible dedication, tireless effort, and tremendous 
sportsmanship.
  I yielded floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Ohio.


           Honoring Officers Eric Joering and Anthony Morelli

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, this month, Ohio laid to rest two 
remarkable public servants, Westerville Police

[[Page S1209]]

Officers Eric Joering and Anthony Morelli. Together, these men 
dedicated decades of their lives to the police force, giving the 
ultimate sacrifice to keep their fellow Ohioans safe.
  Officer Joering and Officer Morelli were doing their jobs, responding 
to a desperate 9-1-1 call when they were tragically shot and killed 
earlier this month. In the days since their passing, we have heard 
stories of their incredible service to their community, their fellow 
officers, and their families.
  Both men were married with children. Officer Joering was 39 and had 
three young daughters. His pastor, Reverend Hammond, spoke to the local 
news about Officer Joering's dedication to his family. He said that 
Officer Joering would do anything for his daughters. He let them style 
his hair. He let them paint his nails. Reverend Hammond quipped: ``I 
heard he drew the line at makeup.''
  Officer Morelli was a 30-year veteran of the Westerville police 
force. Westerville is a Columbus suburb. He had two children. His 
daughter is getting married this summer. His colleagues remembered his 
infectious smile and his passion for life. Westerville Police Chaplain 
James Meacham said Officer Morelli ``went to heaven and partied.''
  These two heroes were laid to rest 10 days ago with services at St. 
Paul Catholic Church in Westerville, drawing thousands of Ohioans and 
fellow officers to pay their respects. Thousands of people waited in 
line in the cold and rain to enter the church. Officers from around the 
country came to honor these men, as they so often do. The church 
parking lot filled with patrol cars from Illinois, Texas, West 
Virginia, Michigan, and so many other States. They had to use a TV at a 
gym next door as an overflow room to accommodate everyone. After the 
services, a long procession of police vehicles wound its way through 
Westerville. Ohioans lined the streets, waving American flags and 
wearing blue ribbons pinned to their raincoats.
  The tribute to these officers won't end with that memorial service. 
In times of tragedy, Ohioans always rise to the occasion. A donation 
page for the families set up by the local Fraternal Order of Police has 
raised more than half a million dollars. The city of Westerville will 
honor Officers Morelli and Joering with a permanent memorial in First 
Responders Park. The Westerville City Council voted unanimously to 
retire Officer Joering's K-9 partner, Officer Sam, and send him home 
with Officer Joering's family. They were there last week to take Sam 
home. One of Joering's daughters wore Sam's badge around her neck. 
Otterbein University, the local 4-year, private, distinguished 
university very nearby, will offer full-tuition scholarships to each of 
the three Joering girls.
  While none of these gestures can ever repay them or their loved ones 
for their service and sacrifice, today we honor these heroes' memories 
and lift up the entire Westerville community and all those who knew 
them.
  The best way for the public to honor these public servants is by 
supporting all Ohio officers and working to give law enforcement the 
resources they need to do their jobs. From the bipartisan legislation 
we passed last year to speed up claims processing for the families of 
fallen officers, to getting local police officers the resources they 
need to protect themselves as they fight the opioid epidemic, we must 
do all we can to support these women and men who sacrifice so much.
  Let's honor the memory of Officer Joering and Officer Morelli by 
recommitting ourselves to protecting and supporting their fellow 
officers and the families who sacrifice alongside them.


                  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

  Mr. President, this month, the toy company Hasbro announced that it 
is introducing a new version of the board game Monopoly. In this 
version--imagine this--players get rewarded, not punished, for 
cheating. It is Wall Street 2018.
  It might be fun to be the banker in this new, rigged version of 
Monopoly when you are playing with game pieces and pretend money, but 
it is not so fun when you are a Wells Fargo employee. It is not so fun 
if you have been victimized by Equifax. It is not so fun if you are one 
of the millions of people who have had to go through the process to get 
restitution from their banks. Families get ripped off by shady payday 
lenders and by big banks. Families lose real money, not Monopoly money.
  When you think about getting away with cheating and even rewarding 
cheaters, pretty soon, you might not have to use much imagination at 
all. There have always been shady corporations trying to get away with 
ripping off consumers. The difference is that now they have an ally in 
charge of the watchdog that is supposed to be policing them. It is 
called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau--a bureau that has done 
yeomen's work to protect consumers, to get restitution for consumers 
when they have been cheated by Wall Street, when they have been cheated 
by a payday lender, and when they have been cheated by some shady 
financial service operator.
  In his short time heading the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 
Mick Mulvaney has done the opposite of what we used to see and the 
opposite of what we should expect of the person whose job it is to look 
out for consumers. It is called the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau, not the ``let's protect Wall Street in one more way'' bureau.
  This month, NPR reported that in a new memo, Mulvaney laid out a 
``revised mission and vision of the consumer bureau.'' What is that 
vision? That vision is to dismantle it and stop all the work it does to 
hold banks accountable. These are NPR's words: He is ``making radical 
changes to deter the agency from aggressively pursuing its mission''--a 
mission designed to protect hard-working people from banks and payday 
lenders who look to cheat them.
  In his memo, Mulvaney actually said that the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau should be ``acting with humility and moderation.'' He 
is saying that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau should be 
acting with humility and moderation, but does he ever admonish Wall 
Street to act with humility and moderation? It would be laughable 
because of the way Wall Street so often acts. We shouldn't want 
moderation when it comes to going after big banks and corporations who 
are cheating consumers. We should want aggressive actions.
  Those two words, ``humility'' and ``moderation,'' are not the first 
two that come to mind when you think of the administration. To the 
surprise of many, the White House now looks like a retreat for Wall 
Street executives. When you talk about humility and moderation with 
regard to this administration, when translated in this context, it 
seems as though they mean to go easy on the fraudsters who are ripping 
off the American people.
  This is the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. This isn't a Wall 
Street regulator who is captured by Wall Street, where you see people 
from Citibank and other big Wall Street entities--the $1 trillion, $2 
trillion, $2 trillion-plus banks--going in and out of the revolving 
door, working for the regulators, and working for the banks.
  This is the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Its job was created 
8 or 9 years ago to fight just as hard for American families as Wall 
Street lobbyists fight for their big banks. Believe me, these lobbyists 
don't exactly act with humility and moderation. The Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau can't afford to.
  Since it was created, this consumer bureau has returned $12 billion--
that is $12,000 million--to 29 million Americans who were cheated by 
banks and who were cheated by payday lenders, and moderating that now 
is literally taking money out of the pockets of working families. 
Because the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been so effective, 
the administration has now put the fox in charge of the chicken coop--
the chicken house.
  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which helped 29 million 
Americans return $12 billion because the banks were cheating them, is 
now run by Mick Mulvaney, who clearly doesn't even think the Bureau 
should exist. Nothing in this memo that he wrote should surprise anyone 
who has watched Mr. Mulvaney over the past few months or, frankly, his 
career. Although he has been running the CFPB on a part-time basis, he 
is supposed to be overseeing the Federal budget, so I am a little 
curious that the full-time Budget Director--my friend from my State of 
Ohio, Senator Portman, used

[[Page S1210]]

to run that, so he knows it is a full-time job. The administration 
scooped up Mr. Mulvaney and said: Well, you keep doing that, but you 
are going to run the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
  Mr. Mulvaney had no real interest, apparently, in running the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, but he has managed to do a lot on 
behalf of Wall Street cheaters. His first action was to freeze payments 
from the Civil Penalty Fund to families who were scammed by big banks 
and other financial institutions. Think about that. The Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau has levied these actions against people who 
cheated consumers. Mulvaney walks in the door on the first day, 
assembles a staff, and says: Freeze those payments. We are not going to 
pay them. These were actions taken by people who were looking out for 
consumers. They were actions they took to penalize these banks and to 
get restitution from these financial institutions that had cheated the 
public. So on his first week on the job, on his first day, he took back 
the hard-earned money of Americans who had been ripped off. He followed 
that by delaying a rule that protects consumers from predatory payday 
lenders, dismissing a lawsuit against those shady loan sharks.
  Senator Jack Reed was out in Ohio the other day. Senator Reed and I 
sit on the Banking Committee. He is a West Point graduate. He is the 
senior Democrat on the Armed Services Committee. He talked about what 
happens at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base right outside of Dayton, 
where the payday lenders prey on these men and women who are young and 
perhaps not as experienced as some in having the financial 
sophistication to deal with some of these loan sharks, and he knows 
that payday lenders and others prey on these generally low-paid and 
underpaid men and women who have sacrificed for their country. 
Sometimes they initiate foreclosures on the homes of people who are 
overseas serving our country. But the new Director of the Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau doesn't seem all that interested in any of 
this.
  After delaying the rule that protects consumers from predatory payday 
lenders, after dismissing a lawsuit against these shady loan sharks--we 
are talking about lenders who have been accused of deceiving customers, 
sometimes with payday lenders charging 9 percent interest and trying to 
collect debts people don't even owe. Those people should be protected. 
You don't protect Wall Street; you protect people who have been 
defrauded by Wall Street.
  It is not that complicated, but apparently at the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau, it is now. Most payday lenders are getting an even 
better return on their campaign donations than they are on their 
predatory loans.
  Mulvaney has put on ice another case that has been pending against 
Wells Fargo, this time for wrongly charging borrowers fees when they 
took out a mortgage.
  At his day job running another Federal agency, Mulvaney proposed a 
budget earlier this month that would defund the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau entirely for a year--defund it--basically saying: We 
are spending no more money on this Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau.
  Philosophically, he just doesn't like the idea of somebody standing 
up for customers, standing up for consumers, standing up against Wall 
Street, standing up against the payday lenders, and standing up against 
the loan sharks that he seems to be in alliance with.
  We shouldn't be surprised by any of this. Mr. Mulvaney, the person 
heading the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau now, is a man who 
doesn't even think the Bureau should exist. He said some time ago that 
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is ``a sick, sad joke.'' He 
sponsored legislation to repeal it.
  How do you explain to 29 million Americans who have gotten $12 
billion in restitution because they were cheated that this is a sad, 
sick joke and it shouldn't exist? It is no joke to the servicemembers 
who rely on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to fight for them 
against bank abuse. It is no joke to the 3\1/2\ million--3\1/2\ 
million--victims of Wells Fargo's fake account scam or the 145 million 
Americans, with 5 million in my State alone--145 million Americans, 
that is pretty much half the adult population in our country--who had 
their data breached by Equifax. The Equifax executives had little 
contrition and didn't apologize much, and they are skating free. What 
is Mick Mulvaney doing to help roughly half of the adult population in 
this country who were the victims of the Equifax breach to make sure it 
doesn't happen again? Nothing. Absolutely nothing.

  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was investigating this 
massive breach, but Mulvaney ordered them to close the investigation. 
This is malpractice or worse. We are talking about a data breach that 
exposed birthdays, Social Security numbers, and addresses. People's 
identities could be stolen and their credit scores ruined. Did Mr. 
Mulvaney care? Apparently not. He was on the side of Equifax when he 
wasn't on the side of Wall Street, when he wasn't on the side of payday 
lenders, when he wasn't on the side of scam artists--and maybe he is on 
the side of all of them. But apparently he thinks it is more important 
to protect the corporations that let it happen than it is to protect 
the American people he is supposed to serve. I guess we shouldn't be 
surprised.
  Once again, Mick Mulvaney and this administration are making it clear 
whose side they are on. Over and over, they side with Wall Street. They 
side with the largest corporations. They side with companies that shut 
down production in Gallopolis, Mansfield, and Zanesville and move their 
companies overseas. They side with them instead of with hard-working 
Americans who are struggling. We see it at the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau with Mulvaney's determination to protect corporate 
special interests. We see it with other bank watchdogs who are putting 
Americans at risk of another financial crisis just to help Wall Street 
pad their pockets.
  Mr. President, as you know, America's financial system has had a 
really, really, really good couple of years, even though we bailed them 
out. Ten years ago, this Congress bailed out these huge banks--$1 
trillion, $2 trillion banks. We bailed them out.
  Congress passed a tax bill in which 81 percent of the benefits go to 
the richest 1 percent of people in this country. It is believed that 
the financial services industry did better under that tax bill than 
anyone else in the country--any other industry. Now we see Mick 
Mulvaney and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau doing even more 
for the banks by representing them instead of representing workers and 
consumers.
  As I said, it is increasingly clear whose side the administration is 
on. We have seen it with the rollback of rules that protect Americans 
from the fine print in contracts, the fine print that few of us read 
and even fewer of us could understand. When we sign up for a credit 
card, when we sign up for a car loan, when we get a job and we sign a 
contract with our employer, these fine print, forced administration 
clauses--you know what they did? They denied customers and employees 
who were cheated their day in court. So when you sign up for a credit 
card and you sign a bank document and then you want to sue because they 
did something to you that you thought was against the law, you are out 
of luck. You have lost your right because you signed that document.
  We see it right here in the Senate with bills to dismantle Wall 
Street reform, to make it easier for big banks to take big risks that 
could wreck the economy all over again.
  At the 10-year anniversary of the biggest financial crisis since the 
Great Depression, there is already a collective amnesia that has 
settled over this town. The Republican leaders in Congress, people down 
the hall in the office of the majority leader, Senator McConnell--over 
and over, they side with Wall Street instead of with workers.
  Ten years ago we saw what Wall Street and the financial services 
industry, particularly Wall Street, did to our country. My wife and I 
live in Cleveland, OH. Our ZIP Code is 44105. Our ZIP Code 10 or 11 
years ago had more foreclosures in the first half of that year than any 
other ZIP Code in the United States of America. I still see the blight 
because of the Wall Street abuse in the loss of retirement

[[Page S1211]]

savings, the lost jobs, the closed factories, and the foreclosed homes. 
I see all of that in my neighborhood. I see all of that throughout my 
State. We all see it in all 50 States. Yet there is this collective 
amnesia in this body, as if none of that ever happened to this country. 
This administration and Republican leaders, again and again and again, 
side with Wall Street over workers, side with Wall Street over 
customers.
  The lessons of a decade ago are clear. You don't grow the middle 
class by letting big banks take massive risks or by letting shady 
lenders prey on hard-working Americans. That is why we passed Wall 
Street reform, and that is why we created the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau--to hold big banks and other bad actors accountable 
when they cheat, to deter them from bad and risky behavior in the first 
place.
  We need a new permanent Director of the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau who will protect the consumers instead of handing big 
corporations a ``get out of jail free'' card. A cheater's version of 
Monopoly might sound like fun on game night, but we have already seen 
what it looks like in real life. Powerful special interests on Wall 
Street win big every single time, and everybody else loses.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business for 10 minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the impact that tax 
reform is having in my home State of Arkansas.
  Despite what you may have heard from those who opposed the Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act, including House Minority Leader Pelosi's infamous 
description of the tax plan's benefits as ``crumbs'' and the passage of 
the plan as ``the end of the world, Armageddon,'' the economy is 
responding incredibly well to the changes we made to the Tax Code.
  I have long believed our economy has struggled under the weight of an 
outdated, inefficient, and ineffective tax system. Now, businesses are 
beginning to do the math and are realizing that the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act will mean more savings. As a result, many have announced they are 
passing some of these savings on to their employees or will now be 
seeking to grow and expand operations.
  As of today, more than 350 companies have announced pay raises, 
bonuses and/or 401(k) increases, benefiting over 4 million Americans. 
According to a recent National Federation of Independent Business 
survey, 32 percent of small businesses believe now is a good time to 
expand--the highest level ever recorded by this survey.
  This is happening across the country and in Arkansas. Here are just a 
few examples of the companies headquartered in Arkansas, with a sizable 
presence in the State, that are passing along savings to their 
employees through wage increases, bonuses, and other benefits, are 
giving to charity, and/or making investments to grow their businesses 
and better serve customers:
  BancorpSouth Bank is giving pay increases and/or one-time bonuses to 
nearly all noncommissioned employees. The investment of over $10 
million in 2018 will benefit 96 percent of the company's 
noncommissioned workforce. Pay increases were effective as of January 
1, 2018.
  Home Bancshares, Inc., of Conway, AR, is distributing a one-time 
bonus of $500 to more than 850 full-time, tenured employees. Home 
Bancshares' chairman, John Allison, said ``investing in these 
individuals is an important step to help support them, their families 
and the communities in which we operate.''
  People's Bank of Magnolia, AR, provided a $500 bonus to employees and 
contributed $50,000 to its charitable endowment.
  Little Rock, Arkansas-based Bank of the Ozarks is giving up to $1,200 
annual bonuses. Approximately 2,300 employees will be eligible under 
the plan.
  Walmart, whose headquarters is located in Bentonville, AR, is a 
significant economic force not only in our State but nationwide, is 
increasing starting hourly wage rates in the United States to $11 an 
hour, expanding maternity and parental leave benefits, and providing 
one-time cash bonuses of up to $1,000. It also has created a new 
benefit to assist associates with adoption expenses.
  Regions Bank is increasing its minimum wage to $15, contributing $40 
million to the company's charitable foundation, and increasing the 
company's capital expenditures budget by approximately $100 million, or 
50 percent over the 2017 level.
  Springdale, AR, is home to Tyson Foods' headquarters. The company 
recently announced that it is giving bonuses to more than 100,000 
employees whose compensation does not include an annual bonus. Eligible 
full-time team members will receive a bonus of $1,000, and eligible 
part-time team members will receive $500.
  In addition, Tyson will use savings resulting from tax reform to 
improve training and education opportunities for employees, including 
teaching English as a second language and general education development 
classes, and it will also be accelerating capital projects.
  FedEx, whose freight headquarters is located in Arkansas and which 
employs over 3,500 Arkansans, is investing more than $3.2 billion in 
growing its business, including raising wages and investing $1.5 
billion in pension plans.
  Finally, UPS is investing $12 billion to expand the company's Smart 
Logistics Network, and it also made a $5 billion tax-qualified 
contribution to the company's three UPS-sponsored U.S. pension plans. 
This represents about $13,000 per participant. The company has more 
than 2,200 active employees in Arkansas in addition to around 390 
retirees who reside in the State.
  The numbers speak for themselves. Clearly, when Washington helps to 
create an environment that makes businesses more globally competitive, 
it benefits Arkansas, and it benefits the entire country.
  The law is already helping hard-working Arkansans keep more of their 
money in their own pockets. By nearly doubling the standard deduction, 
lowering rates, eliminating loopholes, and creating a climate that 
incentivizes business to boost wages and give employees bonuses as a 
result of the reduction in the corporate tax rate, the Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act is providing much needed tax relief to Arkansans.
  Additionally, our Governor, Asa Hutchinson, has instructed the 
Arkansas Public Service Commission to examine how the new lower tax 
rates will benefit utility providers in Arkansas. He is encouraging the 
commission to instruct utilities to pass savings down to ratepayers, 
which could mean possible lower utility rates for those in the Natural 
State.
  That is not all. Arkansas-based companies like ArcBest and Murphy USA 
are already reaping the benefits of the new tax system with higher 
revenues and incomes.
  This is only the beginning. I believe we will continue to see 
positive trends and reactions to the tax law that will help grow our 
economy and spur even more investment in Arkansas and across the 
country.
  One provision included in the law that I believe can have an enormous 
impact on average Arkansans is a new incentive for employers to offer 
paid family leave benefits to their employees. Now employers can offer 
12 weeks of paid family leave in exchange for a tax credit.
  My friend and colleague from Nebraska Senator Fischer fought to get 
this idea included in the bill. Thanks to her vision and perseverance, 
families in Arkansas and across the country who most need access to 
this type of benefit will now have that chance. This is just one more 
example of tax reform delivering results that will help the middle 
class.
  I want to reiterate how well tax reform is working for my State. We 
are seeing growth, higher wages, and other positive benefits. Employees 
are getting bigger paychecks and businesses are investing in their 
workforces and

[[Page S1212]]

expanding their operations. Those are not ``crumbs.'' It is ``not 
Armageddon.'' It isn't an attack on working Americans. It is 
opportunity, it is upward mobility, and it is what Americans deserve. I 
am proud to have cast my vote for tax reform.
  Learning about how it is helping our economy and benefiting American 
families just confirms what we predicted would happen if we made 
American businesses more competitive and let average individuals and 
families keep more of what they earn.
  Moving forward, I am committed to ensuring that the changes we made 
to the Tax Code help increase economic activity and spur growth, 
address our national debt, and create jobs. I am confident it will have 
lasting, positive effects on our economy.
  With that, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arkansas.

                          ____________________



