

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H417]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         HONORING TOBY COSGROVE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Ohio (Ms. Fudge) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FUDGE. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to recognize Dr. Toby Cosgrove, 
an innovative leader and the recently retired president and CEO of the 
Cleveland Clinic Hospital System. I am fortunate to know Dr. Cosgrove 
personally, and I am privileged to call him a friend.
  Some say a picture is worth 1,000 words. That was certainly true of 
Toby Cosgrove. Toby was an accomplished sailor as a young man. That was 
his path until he saw a photo of his neighbor in an operating room. 
That photo inspired Dr. Cosgrove to become a surgeon.
  He graduated from Williams College in Massachusetts and earned his 
medical degree from the University of Virginia School of Medicine.
  After medical school, Dr. Cosgrove served our Nation in Vietnam as a 
captain in the U.S. Air Force. He was awarded a Bronze Star and the 
Republic of Vietnam Commendation Medal for his service during the war.
  Dr. Cosgrove joined the Cleveland Clinic staff in 1976. Dr. Cosgrove 
was a world-renowned heart surgeon for more than 30 years. He performed 
more than 22,000 operations and pioneered the first minimally invasive 
heart valve surgery. Throughout his remarkable career, he acquired 31 
registered patents.
  Dr. Cosgrove took the helm of the Cleveland Clinic in 2004 and made 
the health of the clinic employees a priority. Some of his wellness 
initiatives included implementing a smoking ban on all campuses, 
ensuring healthier food options in cafeterias, and opening weekly 
farmers' markets.
  During his tenure, Dr. Cosgrove focused on enhancing patient outcomes 
and a better patient experience. Dr. Cosgrove is credited with 
instilling a vision and culture that has led to the Cleveland Clinic 
being described as ``a role model of healthcare delivery.''
  He coined the phrase ``Patients First'' and made headlines by hiring 
America's first chief experience officer to ensure caregivers were 
meeting the medical, physical, and emotional needs of patients.
  Dr. Cosgrove led the expansion of Cleveland Clinic's footprint to 
over 100 locations in northeast Ohio, including 10 regional hospitals 
and 21 family health centers.
  Under his leadership, the Cleveland Clinic has become Ohio's largest 
employer. Total visits increased to 7.1 million and research funding 
grew to $260 million.
  The Cleveland Clinic health system includes facilities in Florida, 
Nevada, Canada, Abu Dhabi, and a new London facility scheduled to open 
in 2020.
  Dr. Cosgrove stepped down at the end of 2017. In tribute, the 
Cleveland Clinic community came together to raise over $50 million for 
the Cosgrove Transformation Campaign to honor his career and legacy.
  The Cosgrove Transformation Campaign will ensure Cleveland Clinic 
remains a world leader in innovation, research, education, and 
improving the patient experience.
  On behalf of the people of the 11th Congressional District of Ohio, I 
thank Dr. Cosgrove for his years of innovative leadership at Cleveland 
Clinic and his commitment to improving the health and wellness of those 
we serve.
  Mr. Speaker, there is no question that Dr. Cosgrove's impact will 
continue to be felt for decades to come.

                          ____________________



