

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 55 (Thursday, April 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 55 (Thursday, April 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H3060]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            PETITIONS, ETC.

  Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions and papers were laid on the 
clerk's desk and referred as follows:

       90. The SPEAKER presented a petition of the Town of North 
     Carrollton, MS, Mayor, and Board of Aldermen, relative to a 
     petition in support of recognition of Rev. Billy Graham by 
     setting of a national holiday to remember him; which was 
     referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
       91. Also, a petition of the New Orleans, LA, City Council, 
     relative to Resolution No. R-18-69, strongly opposing H.R. 38 
     and S. 446 and any other attempts to undermine Louisiana 
     state laws; which was referred to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
       92. Also, a petition of the Miami, Florida City Commission, 
     relative to Resolution No. R-18-0076, urging the United 
     States Congress to pass House of Representatives Bill 3999 or 
     similar legislation to prohibit the manufacture, sale, and 
     possession of ``bump stocks'' and similar firearm components 
     or accessories; urging Congress and the Florida legislature 
     to pass legislation that would hold unethical gun dealers 
     accountable; and urging the Federal and state governments to 
     conduct or sponsor research into ``smart'' gun safety 
     technology; which was referred to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
       93. Also, a petition of Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of 
     Austin, TX, relative to urging Congress to enact legislation 
     that would exempt from Federal income taxation pension 
     disbursements, totaling less than $80,000 annually, made to 
     retirees of state and local governments; which was referred 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.


