

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1475-H1476]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. CICILLINE:
       H.R. 5190. A bill to provide a temporary safe harbor for 
     the publishers of online content to collectively negotiate 
     with dominant online platforms regarding the terms on which 
     their content may be distributed; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Sessions, and Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers):
       H.R. 5191. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish 
     Alzheimer's Disease research, education, and clinical 
     centers; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mr. Marchant, 
             Ms. Sinema, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 5192. A bill to authorize the Commissioner of Social 
     Security to provide confirmation of fraud protection data to 
     certain permitted entities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself and Mr. Blum):
       H.R. 5193. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to codify 
     the Boots to Business Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mrs. Noem, Ms. Jenkins of 
             Kansas, Ms. Stefanik, and Mrs. Wagner):
       H.R. 5194. A bill to amend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to 
     provide protections against pregnancy discrimination in the 
     workplace, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 5195. A bill to improve diversity and inclusion in the 
     workforce of national security agencies, and for other 
     purposes; to the

[[Page H1476]]

     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Armed Services, Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select), the Judiciary, Homeland Security, Agriculture, and 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALAZZO (for himself and Mr. Panetta):
       H.R. 5196. A bill to require the Under Secretary of 
     Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere to carry out a program on 
     coordinating the assessment and acquisition by the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of unmanned maritime 
     systems, to make available to the public data collected by 
     the Administration using such systems, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr. McKinley, Ms. 
             DeGette, and Mr. Tipton):
       H.R. 5197. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to conduct a demonstration program to test 
     alternative pain management protocols to limit the use of 
     opioids in emergency departments; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. BUCK:
       H.R. 5198. A bill to amend titles 23 and 49, United States 
     Code, to improve metropolitan planning; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana (for himself, Mr. Scalise, Mr. 
             McHenry, Mr. Walker, Mr. Messer, Mr. Rokita, Mr. 
             Ratcliffe, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Kelly 
             of Mississippi, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Buck, 
             Mr. Webster of Florida, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Smith of 
             Missouri, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             Perry, Mr. Harris, Mr. Latta, Mr. Budd, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Pearce, Mr. 
             Gibbs, Mr. Pittenger, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Biggs, and 
             Mr. Estes of Kansas):
       H.R. 5199. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to allow parents of eligible military 
     dependent children to establish Military Education Savings 
     Accounts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Meeks, Mr. Espaillat, and Mr. Crowley):
       H.R. 5200. A bill to provide additional funding for the 
     public housing Capital Fund for large public housing 
     agencies, for mortgage foreclosure mitigation assistance, and 
     for incremental rental assistance vouchers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK:
       H.R. 5201. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to establish, develop, improve, operate, and 
     maintain the Claude Moore Colonial Farm at Turkey Run in 
     Fairfax County, Virginia, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Nolan):
       H.R. 5202. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     provide for the delivery of a controlled substance by a 
     pharmacy to an administering practitioner; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee:
       H.R. 5203. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     require producers to elect to receive price loss coverage or 
     agriculture risk coverage under that Act or Federal crop 
     insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. ESTES of Kansas:
       H.R. 5204. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     penalize false communications to cause an emergency response, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KIHUEN (for himself, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Titus, and 
             Mr. Amodei):
       H.R. 5205. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 701 6th Street in Hawthorne, 
     Nevada, as the ``Sergeant Kenneth Eric Bostic Post Office''; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Gallagher, 
             Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 5206. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish the Office of Biometric Identity 
     Management, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Higgins 
             of Louisiana, and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 5207. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish the immigration advisory program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 5208. A bill to amend the Competitive, Special, and 
     Facilities Research Grant Act and the Department of 
     Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to further plant 
     cultivar research, development, and commercialization, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 5209. A bill to conduct a special resource study of 
     Fort Pillow Historic State Park in Henning, Tennessee, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself and Mr. Schrader):
       H.R. 5210. A bill to establish the National Park 
     Restoration Fund, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. TURNER:
       H.R. 5211. A bill to change the calendar period of the 
     Federal fiscal year; to the Committee on the Budget, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H. Res. 766. A resolution recognizing the contributions of 
     American Viticultural Areas and winegrowing regions; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD:
       H. Res. 767. A resolution directing the Chief 
     Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to 
     enter into contracts with nationally- or regionally-known 
     franchises for the provision of food services in the 
     cafeteria of the Longworth House Office Building in a food 
     court setting; to the Committee on House Administration.

                          ____________________



