

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S277]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




CONGRATULATING THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA CRIMSON TIDE FOOTBALL TEAM FOR 
   WINNING THE 2018 NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION COLLEGE 
                 FOOTBALL PLAYOFF NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP

  Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I rise today to offer my congratulations 
to the University of Alabama's Crimson Tide on the 2018 College 
Football Playoff National Championship victory against the University 
of Georgia Bulldogs.
  I join the University of Alabama, the Crimson Tide Faithful, and the 
entire State of Alabama--my State--in commending this team on its hard-
fought win and for showing perseverance in the midst of adversity time 
and time again. This year, the Tide overcame a host of injuries and 
midseason struggles to reach this achievement. The team even had to 
overcome, as the Presiding Officer will recall, a 13-point deficit in 
the second half of the championship game in Atlanta, winning ultimately 
26 to 23 in the first overtime in a college football playoff national 
championship game. What a game.
  Under Head Coach Nick Saban's leadership, the Crimson Tide fought to 
earn its fifth national title since 2009--demonstrating, I believe, 
nearly 10 years of dominance. This year's team, among other things, won 
various awards.
  Minkah Fitzpatrick, who is a safety, won the Bednarik Award for best 
defensive player in the Nation and the Thorpe Award for best defensive 
back in the Nation. He was also named Associated Press First Team All-
American.
  Bradley Bozeman, an offensive lineman, was named AP Second Team All-
American.
  Jonah Williams, an offensive lineman, was named AP Third Team All-
American.
  Additionally, five players on the University of Alabama's football 
team were named First Team All-SEC.
  Head Coach Nick Saban has now won six college football national 
championships, equaling the record of former Alabama football Head 
Coach Paul ``Bear'' Bryant. The Crimson Tide coaching staff has helped 
produce high-caliber student athletes and gentlemen. This team has 
brought great pride to the University of Alabama, the loyal fans of the 
Crimson Tide, and to the entire State of Alabama.
  I would like to take a minute to thank Crimson Tide Head Coach Nick 
Saban, Athletic Director Greg Byrne, President Stuart Bell, and 
Chancellor Ray Hayes for their leadership.
  Mr. President, at this time, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 375, submitted earlier today.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the resolution by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 375) congratulating the University of 
     Alabama Crimson Tide football team for winning the 2018 
     National Collegiate Athletic Association College Football 
     Playoff National Championship.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motions to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no 
intervening action or debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The resolution (S. Res. 375) was agreed to.
  The preamble was agreed to.
  (The resolution, with its preamble, is printed in today's Record 
under ``Submitted Resolutions.'')
  Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



