

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1378]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




CONGRATULATING SCHRACK FARMS ON ITS 2018 INNOVATIVE DAIRY FARMER OF THE 
                               YEAR AWARD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
congratulate Schrack Farm Resources of Loganton, Pennsylvania, for 
being named the 2018 Innovative Dairy Farmer of the Year.
  The national award celebrates U.S. dairy producers that apply 
creativity, excellence, and forward thinking to achieve greater on-farm 
productivity and improved milk marketing. The award is presented 
annually by the International Dairy Foods Association and Dairy Herd 
Management magazine.
  Mr. Speaker, Schrack Farm Resources has a rich history in Clinton 
County. Located in the heart of farm country, Schrack Farms is operated 
by Jim and Lisa Harbach and Kevin Schrack. Lisa and Kevin are siblings. 
They run the farm with the help of their children and grandchildren, 
who now represent the 11th-generation farmers of the land. Yes, that is 
right; Schrack Farm Resources has been in operation since 1773, 3 years 
before the Declaration of Independence was even issued. They have 22 
full-time employees and some part-time help as well. The owners said it 
is teamwork that makes it possible for them to receive this award.
  It is especially meaningful to see a Pennsylvania farm with such a 
long history of good stewardship being named the leading innovator, 
nationwide, for dairy farming. Today, Schrack Farms is managing an 
1,100-head dairy herd while advocating for no-till farming and 
maintaining soil health and promoting awareness of the Chesapeake Bay 
watershed.
  Its farming practices truly focus on conservation. Schrack Farms also 
was an early adopter of renewable energy technology and installed one 
of the first methane digesters in Pennsylvania. Now the farm generates 
revenue by selling power back to the grid and reduces electricity costs 
for the farm.
  Schrack Farms is a model operation that is at the forefront of 
modern-day farming practices. Their operation effectively demonstrates 
that investment in environmentally friendly practices can lower costs, 
provide new revenue streams, and offer greater efficiencies on the 
farm.
  They also educate local legislators and the general public about 
their operation's positive economic and environmental benefits. Jim 
Harbach said the farm's practices and beliefs go well beyond the 
borders of farming. Family members and farm staff are involved in 
associations and organizations that promote dairy farming and its 
environmental impacts. He has traveled across the country speaking 
about the practices that they use right there in Loganton, 
Pennsylvania.

  Schrack Farms accepted the award earlier this year at Dairy Forum 
2018 in Palm Desert, California. Pennsylvania's Secretary of 
Agriculture Russell Redding nominated the farm for the award, and I was 
pleased to add supporting comments to the nomination.
  Mr. Speaker, I am most proud of Schrack Farms and the entire family 
for being a leader in dairy farming not only in the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania, but nationwide. I wholeheartedly congratulate Jim, Lisa, 
Kevin, and their families and employees on this outstanding 
achievement.

                          ____________________



