

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1305-S1307]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Tilman 
Eugene Self III, of Georgia, to be United States District Judge for the 
Middle District of Georgia.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the time until 1:30 
p.m. will be equally divided.
  The Senator from Mississippi.


                            Iran Legislation

  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, this Chamber is familiar with deadlines 
and has a habit of running up against them. We cannot lose sight of May 
12, the deadline when President Trump will make a decision about 
sanctions on Iran.
  In January, the President waived sanctions for the last time, calling 
on Congress to ``either fix the deal's disastrous flaws, or the United 
States will withdraw.'' We now have less than 3 months--a period in 
which bipartisan consensus on the issue of Iran is absolutely 
necessary.
  To reimpose sanctions would effectively signal the end of America's 
participation in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the JCPOA, an 
agreement better known as the Iran nuclear deal. The plan is flawed, 
and we cannot fix it without action.
  I ask my colleagues for cooperation and collaboration so that we can 
act in the national interest and prevent the nefarious aims of the 
world's leading state sponsor of terrorism. When it comes to Iran, we 
must put aside our differences and work together on a bipartisan bill.
  I know that the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator 
Corker, has been working with Senator Cardin on this issue. Their 
efforts are commendable and necessary.
  Let me stress again that this effort must be bipartisan. One-sided 
legislation would signal division and weakness on the issue of Iran. A 
partisan bill would also undermine our diplomatic efforts with the P5+1 
countries to improve the JCPOA through a supplemental agreement. I am 
confident we can do our part.
  First, Congress has repeatedly demonstrated its support for 
countering Iran's malign activities. Second, President Trump has laid 
out a clear road map for legislation that he would sign. Finally, this 
President has the will to walk away. He has made this promise, and I 
believe he will keep it.
  Let me explore these three points in turn. No. 1, we have a long 
history of acting in an overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion on this 
issue. Last August, the President signed the Countering America's 
Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. The legislation included tough new 
sanctions on Iran's ballistic missile program, on its sponsorship of 
terrorism, and its human rights abuses. The Senate approved it by a 
vote of 98 to 2, and it earned a vote of 419 to 3 in the House--
bipartisan majorities. We also passed by voice vote Senator Rubio and 
Senator Shaheen's bill to crack down on illicit financing for Iran's 
client Hezbollah. The House companion also passed by a voice vote.
  We have a blueprint for what to do. The President has outlined four 
proposals addressing critical flaws in the nuclear deal.
  One of those proposals is that Iran allow anytime, anywhere 
inspections. Currently, Iran is blocking international inspectors from 
accessing military sites, such as the Parchin facility. Inspectors also 
have to follow elaborate rules even to request and receive access, 
despite Iran's long history of concealment and deception. If Iran has 
nothing to hide, then it has no reason to object to anytime, anywhere 
inspections.
  Second, the bill would ensure that Iran never comes close to getting 
a nuclear weapon. The current nuclear deal attempts to keep Iran 1 year 
away from breakout--the point at which Iran

[[Page S1306]]

can rapidly develop a nuclear capability. One year is not much of an 
insurance policy, especially against the top state sponsor of 
terrorism. The bottom line is that Tehran should never come close to a 
nuclear weapon.
  Third, the bill needs to maintain restrictions in perpetuity. The so-
called sunset clauses are perhaps the most flawed part of the nuclear 
agreement. The way it currently reads, Iran does not need to cheat. 
They can simply wait us out. The conventional weapons ban sunsets in 
2020. The ban on receiving ballistic missile assistance sunsets in 
2023. The ban on replacing old centrifuges with advanced models sunsets 
in 2026. And all nuclear restrictions--on centrifuges, on enrichment 
facilities and levels, and on heavy water production--sunset in 2031. 
The sunset clauses do not stop Iran but kick the can down the road--a 
road ending in just over a decade.
  Finally, the bill cannot overlook the connection between Iran's 
ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs. The legislation must 
severely sanction the ballistic missile program. This is another no-
brainer. A nuclear warhead is effective to the extent that it can be 
launched on a missile. Iran is not developing long-range and 
sophisticated ballistic missiles to deliver conventional payloads. The 
architects of the Iran deal, unfortunately, took great pains to keep it 
focused solely on nuclear. That has to end.
  These four demands constitute a sensible framework for the kind of 
bipartisan legislation that Congress can achieve.
  The final reason for my cautious optimism is that we have a President 
who keeps his promises. When President Trump calls May 12 the last 
chance, I take him seriously. I would encourage my colleagues to do the 
same. This President is dead serious about countering Iran's agenda. He 
said that he would decertify the deal last October. He followed 
through. That should have erased any doubts.
  We should not wait until the eleventh hour to deal with this issue. 
It is too important. By putting aside personal or political feelings, 
we can absolutely achieve a bipartisan bill that fixes the Iran deal 
using the President's framework.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Minnesota.


       Congratulating Team USA and the Minnesota Olympic Athletes

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate Team USA 
and to recognize the contributions of so many Minnesotans at the 2018 
Olympic Winter Games in South Korea.
  I am happy to be joined here by my Senate colleague from Minnesota, 
Senator Smith. Why are Senator Smith and I here today? We are here 
because we had an incredible Olympics, with Minnesota really leading 
the way when it came to the gold medals.
  Of course, our State is no stranger to the Olympics. We have sent 
athletes to compete in women's basketball and cycling. But it shouldn't 
be a surprise that it is the Winter Olympics where the bold northern 
State really shines. We have a couple of things going for us. The 
weather is kind of cold. There is snow, so people are able to practice. 
We also have a great athletic program at our high schools, and we have 
a lot of team spirit, which is especially helpful in the teams we were 
a part of that won the gold, including men's curling and women's 
hockey.
  Of the 243 athletes who were on Team USA, 23 have ties to Minnesota, 
making it the third highest represented State. These athletes competed 
at the highest level and showed the world just what our State could do. 
If Minnesota were competing as a country, it would be tied for 12th, 
globally in the number of gold medals won. But we are not a country; we 
are a proud State. This success is something all Minnesotans can 
celebrate.
  Mr. President, here are some examples for you. Winning a gold medal 
was a first for Afton native Jessie Diggings and a first for the United 
States. Her road to the Olympics started on the cross-country skiing 
trails that cover Minnesota. Jessie worked to keep spirits high in 
training and during the Olympic competition. She put glitter on her 
cheeks as a reminder of what made her fall in love with cross-country 
skiing as a little girl. Her relentless energy and drive were on full 
display. She and her teammate, Kikkan Randall, became the first 
Americans to bring home a gold in cross-country team history. It is no 
surprise that they voted Jessie to be the flag-bearer for the closing 
ceremony.
  Jessie and Kikkan weren't the only American women to bring home gold. 
The women's hockey team won their first gold medal since 1998.
  It is no coincidence that the ``State of Hockey'' sent some serious 
talent. The American team included six current or former Gopher College 
players and two current or former Minnesota Duluth players. From 
Warroad to Minnetonka, the Minnesotans on Team USA brought pond hockey 
toughness and the experience that comes from growing up on the ice. 
This gold medal will help inspire the next generation of hockey players 
in Minnesota.
  I want to make a special note of our incredible goalie, Maddie 
Rooney. If anyone stayed up--which I did--to watch that shootout at the 
end, she showed such poise and such grace under pressure.
  I also want to make a little note of Warroad, MN, which produced the 
incredible Gigi Marvin, along with many other gold medalists from the 
past.
  While Americans were fans of hockey well before the 2018 games, these 
Olympics helped introduce the country to a sport already loved by so 
many Minnesotans--curling. I will note that Senator Cornyn of Texas 
sent out a tweet saying that curling was an obscure sport. I don't 
think anyone thinks that anymore. They might think it is kind of an 
interesting sport, but it has gone from obscure to cool. A lot of that 
has to do with the men's curling team. Four out of five of the members 
of that team were from our home State of Minnesota. In that game, the 
match went from 1 to 4 in the morning or midnight to 3. I can't tell 
you how many Minnesotans were up all night watching that and 
celebrating the gold medal.
  The success of Minnesotans has been inspiring, and I know Senator 
Smith agrees. From frozen ponds to backyard hills, Minnesota helps 
bring the winter athlete out in everyone.
  I congratulate Team USA and all Minnesota athletes who made these 
games such a success.
  Senator Smith.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Minnesota.
  Ms. SMITH. Thank you, Mr. President.
  Thank you, Senator Klobuchar, for organizing this colloquy on the 
Olympic contributions of Minnesotans. I was proud to work with you on 
this resolution honoring our Olympians. While I have not yet given my 
first floor speech--which I plan to do in a couple of weeks--I couldn't 
pass up the opportunity to come down and talk about our State's amazing 
athletes.
  As I am sure Senator Klobuchar knows, as you have just heard from 
her, once a Minnesotan can walk, you can bet that his or her parents 
will try to get them on skis, skates, a sled, or maybe even on the 
curling rink. That early start--not to mention the fact that 
Minnesotans are the hardest working and most resilient people I know--
helps explain why 23 of our athletes took part in this year's Winter 
Games. As Senator Klobuchar said, that is the third most of any State 
in the country. And, boy, did they steal the show. Minnesotans brought 
home gold medals in women's hockey, women's cross-country skiing, men's 
curling, and a bronze medal in women's downhill skiing.
  I want to talk about Afton, Minnesota's own Jessie Diggins, who 
carried the Olympic torch for Team USA at the closing ceremony. As 
Senator Klobuchar said, Jessie began skiing at 4 years old and started 
racing against high schoolers at age 11. She earned her spot on the 
Olympic cross-country team and was the only woman to compete in all six 
women's cross-country events--and compete she did.
  Along with her teammate, Kikkan Randall, Jessie won the first Olympic 
Gold Medal ever for the United States in cross-country skiing--and in 
dramatic fashion. Jessie came from behind during the final stretch of 
the race, inching out her competitor as they crossed the finish line.

  I am amazed, but not all that surprised, by the accomplishments of my 
fellow Minnesotans. I am so happy to be able to join Senator Klobuchar 
in

[[Page S1307]]

saying we are glad the whole world had the chance to witness what we 
see every day in our jobs as Senators from Minnesota--Minnesotans doing 
amazing things.
  I yield the floor.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I know Minnesotans will look forward to 
Senator Smith's actual first speech, but I think it is a tribute to our 
State that her first appearance on the Senate floor was about all of 
these Gold Medals in hockey and curling and skiing.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



