

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1510]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   REMEMBERING GRADY ``BUBBER'' BROWN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. Abraham) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, Grady ``Bubber'' Brown passed away on 
February 10, 2018, in Lake Providence, Louisiana.
  Born on March 8, 1934, he was the son of the late William Dennis 
Brown, Jr., and Martha Wyly Brown.
  During college at the age of 19, he and his younger brother, Philip, 
were given 48 acres of land to farm rice on during their summer break. 
That year, they made a $800 profit and immediately spent it on an 
airplane.
  Buzzy Tomlinson had a plane for sale, and they bought it with the 
agreement that he would teach them to fly, and he did. He gave them 
about 5 hours of instructions and sent them on their way.
  They landed on their own front yard, as proud as they could be to 
show their parents the new purchase.
  Steve Guenard did give them official flight lessons, and both 
received their pilot's license.
  After graduation from LSU, Bubber joined the Naval Aviation Officer 
Candidate School. He spent the next 4 years flying F-J3s, F-J4s, Chance 
Vought F8U-1s, and F8U-2s.
  He had two Mediterranean tours, one North American tour, and he had a 
3-month tour off the coast of Cuba.
  He made over 400 carrier landings, both day and night, during his 
time in service.
  His father died in 1961, so he decided to resign his regular 
commission and return to manage the family Panola farm.
  In 1966, his cousin, Brenda Brown, came home from college with her 
roommate, Jennie Lou Ropp. Bubber and Jennie Lou were married a year 
later, and they have three children today: Grady, Jr.; Glen; and Katie.
  He was always involved with the children's activities. He was 
president of St. Patrick's school board for 12 years, baseball coach, 
flight instructor, hunting guide, and more and more.
  He not only taught both of his sons to fly, but his nephew, too; and 
he was very proud of them.
  Bubber was an entrepreneur. He was the first farmer in the area to 
utilize second growth farming. He always came up with new projects.
  In 1983, Bubber decided to start a new business, Panola Pepper 
Corporation, making his mother's recipe for her famous hot sauce. The 
idea was to employ his farm workers during the winter season. Creating 
jobs was his passion, and it was his specialty in the Lake Providence, 
Louisiana, area.
  Bubber was on many councils and committees, and received numerous 
awards. He served on the Louisiana Rice Council for many years and was 
actively involved in the LSU Rice Research Station.
  He was the lifelong member of St. Patrick's Catholic Church, where he 
was on the church building committee, parish council, finance council, 
and an active member of the Knights of Columbus.
  He was also a lecture, usher, and Eucharistic minister.
  In 2003, he received the Louisiana Small Business Award.
  In 2005, he was asked by Governor Blanco to travel to Cuba with her 
delegation to promote Louisiana agriculture.
  Bubber had seven grandchildren: Wyly Brown, Lauren Brown, Emma Brown, 
Carter Coullard, Will Brown, Ben Coullard, and Andrew Brown.
  He loved his grandchildren and was very proud of every one of them.
  Bubber's legacy is that he taught his family how to be good 
Christians. He taught them all about goodness, kindness, patience, 
peace, hospitality, generosity, joy, faithfulness, self-control, and, 
most of all, love.
  Bubber was the epitome of the Southern gentleman. He will be sorely 
missed.

                          ____________________



