

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1727-H1728]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H.R. 5336. A bill to amend the Foreign Agents Registration 
     Act of 1938 to limit the exemption from the registration 
     requirements of such Act for persons engaging in activities 
     in furtherance of bona fide religious, scholastic, academic, 
     or scientific pursuits or the fine arts to activities which 
     do not promote the political agenda of a foreign government, 
     to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to clarify the 
     disclosures of foreign gifts by institutions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Chabot, 
             and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 5337. A bill to amend section 3903 of title 31, United 
     States Code, to establish accelerated payments applicable to 
     contracts with certain small business concerns, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mrs. HANDEL:
       H.R. 5338. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to repeal authority to make bonus payments to States 
     based on performance; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. YARMUTH (for himself, Mr. Denham, and Mr. 
             Reichert):
       H.R. 5339. A bill to reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless 
     Youth Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Mr. Foster, Mr. Davidson, 
             Mr. Duffy, Mr. Cramer, Mr. King of New York, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Peters, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 5340. A bill to strengthen the position of the United 
     States as the world's leading innovator by amending title 35, 
     United States Code, to protect the property rights of the 
     inventors that grow the country's economy; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 5341. A bill to reauthorize programs authorized under 
     the Debbie Smith Act of 2004; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. LaHood:
       H.R. 5342. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to ensure that the Internal Revenue Service responds 
     promptly to Taxpayer Advocate Directives, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Griffith, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia, and Mrs. McMorris Rodgers):
       H.R. 5343. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     nullify certain contractual provisions prohibiting or 
     penalizing a pharmacist's disclosure of the availability of 
     therapeutically equivalent alternative drugs, or alternative 
     methods of purchasing the prescription drug, that are less 
     expensive, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, and Mr. 
             Nadler):
       H.R. 5344. A bill to make technical amendments to update 
     statutory references to certain provisions which were 
     formerly classified to chapters 14 and 19 of title 25, United 
     States Code; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for himself and Mr. Smith of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 5345. A bill to designate the Marshall Space Flight 
     Center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
     to provide leadership for the U.S. rocket propulsion 
     industrial base, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. 
             Babin, and Mr. Lawson of Florida):
       H.R. 5346. A bill to amend title 51, United States Code, to 
     provide for licenses and experimental permits for space 
     support vehicles, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. AMODEI:
       H.R. 5347. A bill to facilitate resolution of environmental 
     remediation and reclamation, resolve potential liability of 
     the United States, and promote economic development in Lyon 
     County, Nevada, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana:
       H.R. 5348. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     codify and make permanent the authority of the Secretaries of 
     the military departments to conduct programs on career 
     flexibility to enhance retention of members of the Armed 
     Forces, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. DesJarlais, 
             Mr. Cooper, Mrs. Black, Mrs. Blackburn, and Mr. 
             Kustoff of Tennessee):
       H.R. 5349. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1320 Autumn Avenue in 
     Memphis, Tennessee, as the ``Judge Russell B. Sugarmon Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 5350. A bill to amend the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     award grants to benefit the Appalachia region, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself and Mr. Smith of 
             Washington):
       H.R. 5351. A bill to prohibit the enforcement of a 
     nondisclosure agreement based on an individual's employment 
     in the Executive Office of the President if the disclosure of 
     information in violation of the agreement is based on 
     whistleblowing; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.

[[Page H1728]]

  

           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. Nolan, 
             and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 5352. A bill to provide rental assistance to low-
     income tenants of certain multifamily rural housing projects, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Collins of 
             New York, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Barton, and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 5353. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize and expand a program of surveillance and 
     education, carried out by the Centers for Disease Control and 
     Prevention, regarding infections associated with injection 
     drug use; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MOULTON (for himself and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 5354. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to require United States-based foreign media outlets to 
     submit semiannual reports to the Federal Communications 
     Commission, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr. Carson of Indiana, and 
             Mr. Wittman):
       H.R. 5355. A bill to amend chapter 77 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to clarify certain due process rights of Federal 
     employees serving in sensitive positions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 5356. A bill to establish the National Security 
     Commission on Artificial Intelligence; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Education and the Workforce, Foreign Affairs, Science, Space, 
     and Technology, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOHMERT:
       H. Res. 791. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of Cesar Chavez's birthday, March 31, as National 
     Border Control Day; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, and Mr. Soto):
       H. Res. 792. A resolution urging the Secretary of the 
     Interior to recognize the historical significance of Roberto 
     Clemente's place of death near Pinones in Loiza, Puerto Rico, 
     by adding it to the National Register of Historic Places; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



