

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H41-H43]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           GLOBAL AVIATION SYSTEM SECURITY REFORM ACT OF 2017

  Mr. ESTES of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 4559) to conduct a global aviation security review, 
and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 4559

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Global Aviation System 
     Security Reform Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the 
     Transportation Security Administration.
       (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
     Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.
       (3) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee 
     on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
     the Senate.

     SEC. 3. GLOBAL AVIATION SECURITY REVIEW.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall conduct a 
     global aviation security review to address improving aviation 
     security standards, including standards intended to mitigate 
     cybersecurity threats, across the global aviation system.
       (b) Composition.--The global aviation security review 
     established under subsection (a) shall include input from the 
     following entities:
       (1) The Office of Global Strategies of the Administration.
       (2) The Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the 
     Administration.
       (3) The Office of Security Policy and Industry Engagement 
     of the Administration.
       (c) Coordination.--The Administrator shall coordinate with 
     the following entities on the global aviation security 
     review:
       (1) U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
       (2) The Office of International Engagement of the 
     Department of Homeland Security.
       (3) The Department of State.
       (4) Any other relevant office or agency of the Federal 
     government, as determined by the Administrator.
       (d) Best Practices.--The global aviation security review 
     shall establish best practices regarding the following:
       (1) Collaborating with foreign partners to improve global 
     aviation security capabilities and standards.
       (2) Identifying foreign partners that have not successfully 
     implemented security protocols from the International Civil 
     Aviation Organization or the Department of Homeland Security 
     and have not taken steps to implement such security 
     protocols.
       (3) Improving the development, outreach, and implementation 
     process for security directives or emergency amendments, as 
     the case may be, issued to domestic and foreign air carriers.
       (4) Assessing the cybersecurity and cyber espionage risk of 
     security screening equipment.

     SEC. 4. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

       (a) Progress Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall report 
     to the appropriate congressional committees on the 
     organization, development, and progress of the global 
     aviation security review required under section 3.
       (b) Final Report.--Not later than 240 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a report on

[[Page H42]]

     best practices identified by the global aviation security 
     review required under section 3 and the actions the 
     Administrator has taken to implement such best practices.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Estes) and the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kansas.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ESTES of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include any extraneous material on the bill under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Kansas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ESTES of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Katko for his leadership on this 
important piece of legislation.
  It is essential that we continue to improve aviation security in 
order to stay ahead of the evolving threat posed by Islamist 
terrorists. It is clear that terrorists around the world remain intent 
on attacking aircraft.
  That is why over the past year the Department of Homeland Security 
and the Transportation Security Administration have worked to raise the 
global level of aviation security. One area of potential improvement is 
through working to increase security at overseas last point of 
departure airports.
  In October, I joined a bipartisan delegation of congressional members 
from the House Homeland Security Committee to several of the largest 
last point of departure airports, including Amman, Jordan; and 
Frankfurt, Germany. We examined current threats to aviation security 
and got to look at how our foreign partners have worked to stay ahead 
of all the potential threats.
  This legislation seeks to improve global aviation security standards 
by directing the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration to conduct a comprehensive review of aviation security 
implementation and challenges across the global aviation system. This 
legislation will help improve coordination and outreach, both within 
the United States Government and with foreign partners regarding 
improvements to aviation security.
  It makes sense for our security agencies to work with our foreign 
allies who are facing the same security threat that we face. This 
legislation will help the DHS locate and implement best practices, 
which are being used overseas. The fight to protect travelers isn't one 
that we face alone in America, and this threat isn't going to dissipate 
anytime soon. That is why this legislation is focused on ensuring that 
our agencies build partnerships and can learn from our foreign 
partners.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4559, the Global Aviation 
System Security Reform Act of 2017.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for his leadership on this 
legislation.
  This legislation would require the TSA to conduct a global aviation 
security review in order to improve aviation standards across the 
global aviation system within 180 days of enactment.
  The security review within this bill is required to include input 
from the TSA's Office of Global Strategies, Office of Intelligence and 
Analysis, and the Office of Security Policy and Industry Engagement, 
and must identify best practices for foreign partners.
  While the TSA has taken tremendous steps to improve aviation security 
at airports with direct service to the U.S., there is more that can be 
done.
  In the last 12 months, we have seen the global aviation threat 
landscape evolve to include an increased threat to cargo security, and 
passenger planes being targeted with bombs hidden in large electronic 
devices.
  The TSA is continually working with global partners and stakeholders 
to ensure that aviation standards are being maintained and elevated as 
needed.
  Under this legislation, improvements that should be made to aviation 
security will be highlighted for Congress.
  This legislation has the potential of providing a very good roadmap 
for Congress to address areas of improvement for global aviation 
security and to ensure that we constantly strive towards the safest and 
most secure aviation community.
  Mr. Speaker, I note that, in the last couple of days, through the 
holiday season, those people who were either stuck in airports, and 
bags that were stacked, and people couldn't find bags are not 
considered a security issue. It was a weather issue. But we understand 
how crucial it is that the traveling public has needs in the free 
flowing and secure flowing of aviation. Giving the Congress a roadmap, 
I believe, is a very important step.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4559, the ``Global Aviation 
System Security Reform Act of 2017.''
  This legislation would require TSA to conduct a global aviation 
security review in order to improve aviation standards across the 
global aviation system within 180 days of enactment.
  The security review within this bill is required to include input 
from TSA's Office of Global Strategies, Office of Intelligence and 
Analysis, and the Office of Security Policy and Industry Engagement, 
and must identify best practices for foreign partners.
  While TSA has taken tremendous steps to improve aviation security at 
airports with direct service to the U.S., there is more that can be 
done.
  In the last 12 months, we have seen the global aviation threat 
landscape evolve to include an increased threat to cargo security, and 
passenger planes being targeted with bombs hidden in large electronic 
devices.
  TSA is continually working with global partners and stakeholders to 
ensure that aviation standards are being maintained and elevated as 
needed.
  Under this legislation, improvements that should be made to aviation 
security will be highlighted for Congress.
  This legislation has the potential of providing a roadmap for 
Congress to address areas of improvement for global aviation security, 
and ensure that we constantly strive towards the safest and most secure 
aviation community.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4559 will give this body a strong sense of the 
direction for global aviation security improvements.
  As threats to aviation security grow more sophisticated, this bill 
seeks to ensure that TSA is keeping pace with the threat landscape.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ESTES of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, let me again emphasize the importance of identifying 
best practices to be utilized by our system and to utilize these best 
practices to improve the security for the traveling public.
  H.R. 4559 will give this body a strong sense of direction for global 
aviation security improvements. As threats to aviation security grow 
more sophisticated, this bill seeks to ensure that the TSA is keeping 
pace with the threat landscape.

                              {time}  1330

  Since I have no further speakers, I am closing by saying, with that, 
I encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 4559.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ESTES of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill. One of the 
things that we are seeing today, in an increasingly dangerous world, is 
how do we face these threats and work together. This bill is intended 
to help work to be more efficient across not just America but with our 
allies in making our aviation travel more safe and secure.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of bill, H.R. 
4559: The Global Aviation System Security Reform Act of 2017. This 
legislation will help raise the global baseline of aviation security 
and protect the traveling public from a litany of terror threats.
  After recently participating in a bipartisan Congressional delegation 
to the Middle East

[[Page H43]]

and Europe to observe international aviation security efforts 
firsthand, my colleagues and I returned home determined to bolster the 
Department of Homeland Security's efforts to build capacity among 
foreign partners.
  When it comes to aviation security, we are only as secure as our 
weakest link. Unfortunately, through our oversight on the Homeland 
Security Committee's Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective 
Security, we have grown increasingly concerned that existing standards 
are simply not sufficient to keep up with the changing threats to 
aviation.
  This legislation will ensure that DHS and TSA are aggressively 
committed to eliminating security vulnerabilities and inconsistencies 
at overseas airports with direct flights to the United States.
  I wish to thank Congressman Estes for participating in the important 
delegation we undertook which led to this legislation, as well as his 
commitment and leadership to security America's transportation systems 
on my Subcommittee.
  I urge my colleagues to support the bill.
  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the cost estimate 
from the Congressional Budget Office regarding H.R. 4559. The cost 
estimate was not available at the time of the filing of the Committee 
report.

                                                    U.S. Congress,


                                  Congressional Budget Office,

                                  Washington, DC, January 9, 2018.
     Hon. Michael McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
     prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 4559, the Global 
     Aviation System Security Reform Act of 2017.
       If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
     pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Megan 
     Carroll.
           Sincerely,
                                                       Keith Hall.
       Enclosure.
                                  ____


     H.R. 4559--Global Aviation System Security Reform Act of 2017

  As ordered reported by the House Committee on Homeland Security on 
                           December 13, 2017

       H.R. 4559 would direct the Transportation Security 
     Administration (TSA), in consultation with other federal 
     agencies, to review security-related standards across the 
     global aviation system. The bill would require TSA to 
     identify best practices for:
       Enhancing security by collaborating with foreign partners 
     involved in aviation security,
       Identifying foreign entities that have not yet implemented 
     international standards,
       Improving processes for issuing security-related directives 
     to air carriers, and
       Assessing cyber-related threats to screening equipment.
       Using information from TSA, CBO estimates that meeting the 
     bill's requirements would increase the agency's costs by less 
     than $500,000 in 2018; such spending would be subject to 
     appropriation. Enacting H.R. 4559 would not affect direct 
     spending or revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures do 
     not apply.
       CBO estimates that enacting H.R. 4559 would not increase 
     net direct spending or on-budget deficits in any of the four 
     consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2028.
       H.R. 4559 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector 
     mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.
       The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Megan Carroll. 
     The estimate was approved by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
     Assistant Director for Budget Analysis.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Estes) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 4559, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



