

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H686-H687]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1030
                                TONIGHT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Kelly) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, tonight I will have the 
privilege of hearing the State of the Union Address that I have been 
waiting to hear since I first came to Congress 7 years ago.
  Tonight our entire country will hear a confident message of 
undeniable good news for all Americans--not based on fantasy and hope, 
but on facts and undeniable success.
  Tonight the President of the United States will come to the people's 
House and speak to a nation that is far better off today than we were 
just 1 year ago in every measurable way.
  Now, this success did not come by accident. Over the past year, by 
working with a unified Congress, President Trump was able to begin 
implementing his agenda to Make America Great Again.
  Let's revisit what he has done when it comes to accomplishments.
  The signing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act marked the first time our 
Tax Code was updated in over 31 years. It lowered tax rates for all 
taxpayers across the board, and it cut the corporate tax rate down from 
35 percent to 21 percent which allows us to compete globally. It 
permanently repealed ObamaCare's individual mandate. It opened up ANWR 
for drilling and brand new energy exploration.
  When it comes to deregulation, he signed 15 CRA bills into law in 
less than a year, imposed a groundbreaking rule on the Federal 
bureaucracy to kill two regulations for every new regulation written, 
and has rolled back more job-killing red tape than every President 
before him combined.
  When it comes to the courts, by appointing conservatives like Neil 
Gorsuch to the Supreme Court and a historic number to the appellate 
courts, he is restoring constitutionalism and common sense to our 
judiciary system. These appointments will reverberate for generations 
to come.
  Now, when it comes to the outcomes, the entire stock market is at an 
all-time high. Contrary to what some people will speak, this affects 
the pensions of all Americans. Female unemployment is at its lowest 
level since 2001. Black and Hispanic unemployment are at their lowest 
levels ever. For 13 different States, overall unemployment is at its 
lowest rate since we first began recording it.
  New manufacturing orders are increasing at their fastest pace in 14 
years. Quarterly GDP is exceeding expectations and is on track for a 3 
percent annual growth rate for the first time in 13 years. Consumer 
confidence is at its highest level since 2000. Job market confidence is 
at its highest level ever, and because of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 
alone, more than 3 million American workers--and counting--are 
receiving $1,000 bonuses, or more, wage increases, and/or benefit 
increases. Now, in my own city that I live in, NexTier Bank gave over 
250 of its associates a $1,000 bonus. Those are hardly crumbs when it 
comes to hardworking American taxpayers.
  Abroad, the Islamic State--once thought to be unstoppable--is now 
shattered. Military morale, recently at rock bottom, is now soaring. 
Our troops are currently receiving their largest pay raise in 8 years.
  When it comes to liberty and conscience issues, we ended the war on 
religious liberty. We tore up the so-called HHS contraceptive mandate; 
no more nuns fighting for their survival in the Supreme Court; and we 
reinstated the Mexico City policy the first weekend in office.
  When it comes to energy, we ended the war on coal, we stopped the 
EPA's so-called Clean Power Plan, we approved both the Keystone XL and 
Dakota pipelines, and we have plans in place to dramatically expand 
offshore drilling.

[[Page H687]]

  When it comes to American leadership, we pulled out of the Paris 
climate accord, we ended the Cuba appeasement, we condemned and 
decertified the Iran deal, and Guantanamo Bay is still open with no 
threat of closing.
  By changing the rules of engagement, trusting our generals, and 
unleashing our military might, he has overseen the total destruction of 
the ISIS caliphate. The entire world is safer because of American 
leadership. Through his words and deeds--most recently with Jerusalem--
the world sees America leading with moral clarity and confidence again.
  Mr. Speaker, tonight I will have the privilege of hearing the State 
of the Union that I have been waiting to hear for 7 years. Tonight we 
will look at an economy and a State of the Union that is as strong as 
Pittsburgh steel.
  Our economy is roaring, and America's optimism is soaring. Our 
citizens are becoming more prosperous. Our law enforcement is becoming 
empowered and not undermined. Our military is growing stronger by the 
day. Our international credibility is being restored. Our friends, once 
again, trust us; and our enemies, once again, fear us. The whole world 
knows that we will also put America first.
  But this is just the start. There is still much work left to be done. 
But as of today, the facts say it all: America is winning again.

                          ____________________



