

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 31 (Friday, February 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 31 (Friday, February 16, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1217]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. GABBARD (for herself and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 5066. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     establish a grant program to make grants to State departments 
     of agriculture for the research and development of disease 
     resistant varieties of tropical flowers; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. LaMALFA (for himself and Mr. Scalise):
       H.R. 5067. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for taxpayers making donations with their 
     returns of income tax to the Federal Government to pay down 
     the public debt; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 5068. A bill to authorize assistance to aid in the 
     prevention and treatment of obstetric fistula in foreign 
     countries, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. Kinzinger):
       H.R. 5069. A bill to establish the Federal Smart Building 
     Program to implement smart building technology and 
     demonstrate the costs and benefits of smart buildings, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Science, Space, and Technology, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Ms. Kaptur):
       H. Con. Res. 106. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of Emancipation Hall for a ceremony to present the 
     Congressional Gold Medal collectively to the members of the 
     Office of Strategic Services; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. DENHAM (for himself, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H. Res. 741. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the rebuilding and resettlement 
     of the Nineveh Plain, which is essential for preserving the 
     homeland and heritage of Christian Assyrians (also known as 
     Chaldean and Syriac), Yezidis and Shabaks; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. McEACHIN (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
             Mr. Beyer, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Garrett, Mr. Griffith, 
             Mr. Wittman, Mr. Brat, Mrs. Comstock, and Mr. 
             Connolly):
       H. Res. 742. A resolution honoring the life and legacy of 
     Rev. Dr. Wyatt Tee Walker; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. McGOVERN (for himself and Mr. Hultgren):
       H. Res. 743. A resolution expressing support for the human 
     rights and religious freedom of the Tibetan people and the 
     Tibetan Buddhist faith community, and for the designation of 
     a ``Tibetan Rights Day''; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. 
             Davis of California, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Speier, Ms. Lee, and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H. Res. 744. A resolution recognizing the cultural and 
     historical significance of Lunar New Year in 2018; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



