

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H82]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania:
       H.R. 4742. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to require the principal campaign committee of a 
     candidate in a general election for the office of President 
     to file a certification that the candidate has undergone a 
     medical examination conducted by a medical office under the 
     jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy; to the Committee 
     on House Administration.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 4743. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     strengthen the Office of Credit Risk Management within the 
     Small Business Administration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Royce of 
             California, and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 4744. A bill to impose additional sanctions with 
     respect to serious human rights abuses of the Government of 
     Iran, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, 
     Financial Services, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 4745. A bill to designate the Emancipation National 
     Historic Trail, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. BEATTY:
       H.R. 4746. A bill to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
     Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify when bank 
     holding companies may be subject to certain enhanced 
     supervision; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CONAWAY (for himself and Ms. Cheney):
       H.R. 4747. A bill to prohibit the Government from using or 
     contracting with an entity that uses certain 
     telecommunications services or equipment, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Mrs. Demings, Ms. Norton, Mr. Suozzi, 
             and Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 4748. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to deny a deduction for severance payments made in 
     connection with sexual misconduct; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 4749. A bill to amend the Agricultural Trade Act of 
     1978 to establish a program to enhance transparency and 
     traceability of food products and ingredients that are 
     exported to the United States in order to protect American 
     consumers and American food manufacturers against 
     mislabeling, adulteration, and fraud; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.

                          ____________________



