

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1317]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Indiana (Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to the 
exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic 
of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for employer-
provided education assistance to employer payments of student loans.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1539, a bill to protect victims of 
stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1676

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1676, a bill to 
amend the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 to provide grants for 
access to broadband telecommunications services in rural areas, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1905

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1905, a bill to increase the number of States 
that may conduct Medicaid demonstration programs to improve access to 
community mental health services.


                                S. 2015

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2015, a bill to clarify the 
status of the North Country, Ice Age, and New England National Scenic 
Trails as units of the National Park System, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2105

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. 
Duckworth) were added as cosponsors of S. 2105, a bill to modify the 
presumption of service connection for veterans who were exposed to 
herbicide agents while serving in the Armed Forces in Thailand during 
the Vietnam era, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2174

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2174, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the Veterans Crisis 
Line.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2271, a bill to reauthorize 
the Museum and Library Services Act.


                                S. 2284

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2284, a bill to strengthen 
Buy American requirements, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2334

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2334, a bill to amend title 17, United 
States Code, to provide clarity with respect to, and to modernize, the 
licensing system for musical works under section 115 of that title, to 
ensure fairness in the establishment of certain rates and fees under 
sections 114 and 115 of that title, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2374

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2374, a bill to amend the 
Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012, 
including making changes to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for improved 
detection, prevention, and recovery of improper payments to deceased 
individuals, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2421, a bill to amend the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 to provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and 
penalties for releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at 
farms.


                                S. 2430

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2430, a bill to provide a 
permanent appropriation of funds for the payment of death gratuities 
and related benefits for survivors of deceased members of the uniformed 
services in event of any period of lapsed appropriations.


                                S. 2458

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2458, a bill to 
authorize the Attorney General to deny the transfer of firearms and 
explosives and Federal firearms and explosives licenses and permits to 
known or suspected terrorists.


                              S.J. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the 
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of 
S.J. Res. 54, a joint resolution to direct the removal of United States 
Armed Forces from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that have not 
been authorized by Congress.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 377, a resolution recognizing the 
importance of paying tribute to those individuals who have faithfully 
served and retired from the Armed Forces of the United States, 
designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military Retiree Appreciation Day'', 
and encouraging the people of the United States to honor the past and 
continued service of military retirees to their local communities and 
the United States.

                          ____________________



