

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1792]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. Collins, and Ms. Heitkamp):
  S. 2571. A bill to reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today, I am proud to once again join with 
Senator Collins to introduce the bipartisan Runaway and Homeless Youth 
and Trafficking Prevention Act. Senator Collins and I have championed 
this effort together for years now, and I thank her for her thoughtful 
and steadfast advocacy and constructive contribution throughout our 
efforts. Our bill will extend for five years key programs authorized by 
the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act, and expand and improve the programs 
and services that are vital--and sometimes lifesaving--resources and 
safe havens for at risk youth in our home states and across the 
country.
  Runaway and homeless youth are significantly more likely to become 
victims of sexual abuse and trafficking. Our bill ensures that service 
providers, who are the bedrock of the support system for runaway and 
homeless youth, have the information, training, and resources they need 
to identify and serve youth that have been victims of trauma. This 
includes connecting the youth with appropriate additional services to 
ensure their physical and mental health and safety.
  The bill reauthorizes and expands programs and guidance that help 
providers reunify youth with their families and loved ones, or, if not 
possible, provide a tailored and comprehensive support system to help 
them get back on their feet or on a path to self-sufficiency. The 
spectrum of support services include emergency and transitional 
housing--because the first step is having a safe place to stay. They 
also include training and counseling relating to physical and mental 
health care, financial literacy, and workforce training. Runaway and 
Homeless Youth providers are there for the youth every step of the way, 
supporting them and connecting them to their community and to available 
resources. Our reauthorization adds completion of the Free Application 
for Financial Student Aid (FAFSA) form to the available assistance to 
help youth who wish to pursue advanced educational opportunities 
realize their goals.
  Finally, our bill ensures that no child can be discriminated against 
in trying to gain access to access services or housing through Runaway 
and Homeless Youth programs. It is unconscionable to turn away any 
child in need--gay, straight, black or white. These are our Nation's 
most vulnerable youth and they must all feel welcome. In many cases, 
Runaway and Homeless Youth programs can be a last resort. We cannot let 
one child fall through the cracks in our support system.
  In Vermont alone, the Vermont Coalition of Runaway and Homeless Youth 
Programs served 500 young people in need of housing supports in Fiscal 
Year 2017. Vermont is the seventh most expensive State to live in for 
rural areas, and ranks within the top five States for the largest 
shortfall between housing wage and renter wage. As youth and families 
struggle to make ends meet in Vermont and across the Nation, these 
programs and support systems are more important than ever. We must 
invest the resources to ensure our youth have a safe place to go and 
the resources they need to become self-sufficient.
  Senator Collins and I know just how dangerous and unpredictable the 
weather can be in the Northeast. In fact, we are getting hit with yet 
another nor'easter complete with fresh snow this week. No child in 
either of our states, or anywhere in the United States, should have to 
call the street home. The bill we are introducing today will help 
ensure our nation's children have a safe place to stay and have the 
support they need to grow, learn, and thrive.

                          ____________________



