

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S301-S302]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Lee, and 
        Mr. Hatch):
  S. 2319. A bill to empower States to manage the development and 
production of oil and gas on available Federal land, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I wish to speak today about legislation 
I am introducing to spur American energy development on Federal land. 
This is the Opportunities for the Nation and States to Harness Onshore 
Resources for Energy Act. It is also known as the ONSHORE Act. It is a 
commonsense approach that streamlines the permitting process for oil 
and gas development.
  Oil and gas production has increased dramatically on non-Federal land 
in recent years. Production on Federal land has fallen behind. That is 
because energy producers face costly delays when they have to deal with 
outdated and inefficient regulations from Washington, DC.
  The legislation we are introducing reduces these unnecessary delays 
by giving authority to States that have established regulatory 
programs. Let's let the States make those decisions. These are States 
that have a proven track record of managing oil and gas development 
efficiently and effectively. At the same time, they protect the public 
health and the environment. That is the balance we all want--and these 
States are doing it--without Washington adding another unnecessary 
layer of redtape.
  In 2016, it took an average of more than 250 days for the Federal 
Bureau of Land Management to issue permits to drill for oil on public 
land. It took State agencies an average of 30 days. Look at the 
difference--States, 30 days; Federal, 250 days. That is the difference 
in what happens when Washington gets involved. The delays cost jobs, 
they slow down economic growth, and communities lose important tax 
revenue.
  My home State of Wyoming is America's largest producer of natural 
gas, and we are the second largest producer of oil on Federal lands. 
Wyoming has a long history of managing oil and gas development on 
Federal lands. We know how to do it. We do it safely. We do it 
responsibly. Wyoming continues to be the place people from all over the 
world want to see because of how beautiful the scenery and the 
environment are. This legislation strips away that needless layer of 
Washington regulation, and it lets States like Wyoming manage oil and 
gas development the way we know how to do it.
  Our legislation also eliminates the administrative fee that gets 
taken out of States' share of revenues from oil and gas production. 
Washington takes money that has been created locally, and it sends the 
money out of the community and back to Washington. This is millions of 
dollars that States and local communities need to fund vital public 
services. Our bill ends this unfair redistribution.
  The ONSHORE Act also stops Washington from imposing extra permitting 
burdens and environmental reviews on energy development that takes 
place on non-Federal lands. These requirements are a classic example of 
Washington overreach. They don't help the environment; they just keep 
oil and gas in the ground and keep hard-working Americans out of work. 
This legislation will create jobs and expand our economy by creating an 
environment where American energy can dominate.
  I want to thank the cosponsors of this legislation for their 
support--Senators Hoeven, Enzi, Lee, and Hatch. I also want to thank my 
colleagues in the House for starting this conversation with their bill, 
which is called the SECURE American Energy Act. I look forward to 
working with my colleagues to pass this legislation as quickly as 
possible.
      By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Warner):
  S. 2320. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
increase the national limitation amount for qualified highway or 
surface freight transfer facility bonds; to the Committee on Finance.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of 
the bill be printed in the Record.

[[Page S302]]

  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                S. 2320

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Building United States 
     Infrastructure and Leveraging Development Act'' or the 
     ``BUILD Act''.

     SEC. 2. INCREASE NATIONAL LIMITATION AMOUNT FOR QUALIFIED 
                   HIGHWAY OR SURFACE FREIGHT TRANSFER FACILITY 
                   BONDS.

       (a) In General.--Section 142(m)(2)(A) of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking 
     ``$15,000,000,000'' and inserting ``$20,800,000,000''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply to bonds issued after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act.

                          ____________________



