

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1531-H1536]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       NATIONAL K-9 VETERANS DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Higgins of Louisiana). Under the 
Speaker's announced policy of January 3, 2017, the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Yoho) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the 
majority leader.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, in my previous life, before Congress--I am a 
veterinarian in the practice for 30 years--I have had the pleasure of 
taking care of all of God's creatures. It has been a privilege, a 
pleasure, and an honor.
  So much is going on in Washington and the world, and we hear a lot of 
bad things going on, so tonight we are going to do a Special Order 
honoring K-9 Veterans Day, March 13. This evening, my colleagues and I 
would like to take a moment and pay tribute to the thousands of working 
dogs that serve our Nation.
  They serve in the military. They serve in the fire department, the 
police department, and the Drug Enforcement Agency. They serve in your 
neighbor's house next door to alert people of intruders, maybe a fire, 
or finding a lost child. There is a group of people who do search and 
rescue only on a volunteer basis.
  These unsung heroes, our K-9s, serve our Nation in many ways. Their 
contributions to our neighborhoods, communities, towns, cities, States, 
and even Nation cannot be overstated.
  The biggest thank-you goes out to all of these K-9s serving our 
Nation's military and working to keep the homeland safe both here and 
abroad, as well as our local law enforcement K-9s. Tonight we honor 
you.
  Over the past few months, I have had the honor of getting to know the 
working K-9s and their handlers that serve

[[Page H1532]]

Florida's Third Congressional District. After great visits, 
demonstrations, discussions--and I even had the experience yesterday 
with our team in our district; I experienced the subdued tactics of 
these dogs, wearing protective gear, of course--I am convinced more 
than ever that these amazing animals and their handlers need support 
and recognition for the incredible work that they do.
  It is not just in north central Florida and northeast Florida. You 
can find these selfless heroes in all districts all across our great 
country. Whether it is checking the stadiums top to bottom, which, 
incidentally, yesterday, when we got to talking to the different 
sheriff's organizations, they said, at every Gator game at the 
University of Florida, the dogs check the entire stadium.
  For those who have been to Gator Nation and seen our stadium there, 
it is a huge stadium, as all are, and they check it before every game, 
every basketball game, every big venue, and these dogs are out there 
working to keep Americans safe. Whether it is checking, as I said, the 
stadiums top to bottom for explosives or narcotics prior to big 
sporting events or helping find a missing person or being there at just 
the right moment when an officer is in need of backup, these K-9s 
deserve to have their stories heard tonight.
  Tonight we celebrate National K-9 Veterans Day. My colleagues and I 
intend to do just that. While we celebrate their services tonight, I 
want to encourage all Members to do what they can to support these K-
9s, their handlers, and the departments they represent.
  National K-9 Veterans Day began in World War I, when the most famous 
K-9, Sergeant Stubby, shined a spotlight on the incredible working dogs 
and the value they bring to our national service. Brigadier General 
Scott Perry is going to talk about Stubby more tonight, so I will leave 
that for him.

                              {time}  1930

  In Vietnam, nearly 4,000 dogs actively served, and in Iraq, these 
dogs were critical in sniffing out deadly IEDs. Since then, these dogs 
have served in our military and law enforcement, working hard to keep 
Americans safe. We owe not just today to these K-9s, but a thanks every 
day for their service.
  To begin tonight, I would recognize the K-9 teams that serve in my 
home district and will share many of their stories here tonight. 
However, I want to start with one of my favorites from the Alachua 
County Sheriff's Office.
  In December 2017, in the far northern reaches of rural Alachua 
County, a previous victim of domestic violence and battery was walking 
out to meet detectives when she heard the voice of her assailant 
calling to her from the darkness. Terrified, she ran back inside, 
called 911, and deputies responded in an effort to catch the suspect 
with active warrants that included kidnapping and sexual assault.
  Deputy Sheriff Chris Drake and K-9 Rous arrived, knowing full well 
that the suspect had not only stolen the victim's car with a gun inside 
earlier, but dug a hole and buried himself to elude a helicopter 
searchlight and a floor camera the night before. With that information, 
Chris and his dog, Rous, began to track the suspect.
  Lifting K-9 Rous over some fences and cutting their way through 
others, Deputy Drake and others continued following the suspect's scent 
until, as Drake's report reads: ``Rous . . . still smelling human odor 
. . . ears forward, and staring intently . . . identified something 
lying in the water . . . the man stood up from the water . . . turned 
north into the woods and disappeared.''
  Continuing their track, K-9 Rous and Deputy Drake again found the 
suspect hiding in a separate swamp, with only his back exposed. That is 
not a good thing with a catch dog.
  When challenged, the felon fled again, and K-9 Rous was released to 
catch him. K-9 Rous ran into the water, swam briefly, and apprehended 
the suspect on the arm, enduring punches to the head and holding on 
until deputies could arrive and assist, placing the suspect in 
handcuffs for a trip to the hospital and then jail.
  These deputies and their K-9 partners are on the road every day, 
working 12-hour shifts, 24 hours a day, supporting every local law 
enforcement patrol task and providing mutual aid to our neighboring 
jurisdictions when called upon.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. Abraham), 
another veterinarian.
  Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, today is National K-9 Veterans Day. As a 
member of the Veterinarian Caucus, I rise to commemorate the service of 
our four-legged friends who assist our military and police force in 
keeping our Nation and our communities safe.
  Though the War Dogs program, or K-9 Corps as it is commonly known, 
was first established during World War II, dogs have been assisting our 
soldiers since pit bulls were used for security during the Civil War.
  On March 13, 1942, the K-9 Corps was officially born and became 
immediately effective. Dogs were used in the Pacific theater, where it 
has been said that the Japanese never ambushed or made a surprise 
attack on a patrol led by one of these dogs. It is estimated that the 
Army employed 1,500 dogs in the Korean war and 4,000 dogs during the 
Vietnam war.
  With noses 100,000 times as sensitive as humans, our soldiers 
continue to use them today to sniff for bombs in places like Iraq and 
Afghanistan. One named Cairo was even used to sniff for bombs around 
Osama bin Laden's compound during the raid to take him down.
  Just like soldiers, these dogs go through rigorous training to serve 
our Nation. Their courage, loyalty, and acumen have saved countless 
lives. We appreciate their service and the service of their trainers 
and the soldiers who use them on the battlefield.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, next I yield to the gentleman from my 
Pennsylvania, Brigadier General Scott Perry, my good friend.
  Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I also want to join my friends in honoring 
National K-9 Veterans Day.
  Every March 13, we commemorate the United States Army's first K-9 
Corps training program. While this program began in 1942, the history 
of our ``best friend'' engaging in training and combat with us extends 
well beyond that date.
  Today, we commemorate the iconic Sergeant Stubby. If you don't know 
about Stubby, Sergeant Stubby was a brindle bull terrier mutt from New 
Haven, Connecticut. Stubby was adopted by U.S. Army Private Robert 
Conroy, who stowed him away on a ship bound for France in the First 
World War, where his service was integral to saving American lives. 
Stubby was allowed to join our soldiers on the front lines after he was 
discovered by Private Conroy's commanding officer. Because Stubby 
rendered a salute to the commander, he was allowed to stay.
  While on the front, he was once injured during a gas strike and 
developed a unique sensitivity to the smell of chemical weapons used at 
that time. His sensitivity was used to alert sleeping troops to another 
gas attack. He rescued them on numerous occasions from an ill and very 
painful fate.
  Sergeant Stubby also thwarted a German spy attempting to map out the 
battlefield of the Allied trenches. He did that by grabbing onto the 
German soldier, biting him and subduing him until the American soldiers 
could arrive.
  Sergeant Stubby served in 17 separate battles during World War I. 
Private Conroy's grandson, Curt Deane, recalled stories about Stubby:
  ``My grandmother was always clear: he was a service dog. He gave the 
troops comfort . . . and support. He used to run through the trenches 
and warn them about gas attacks. He used to go outside of the trenches 
and into this sort of no man's land between the U.S. and the German 
trenches and stand by soldiers who had been injured until the medics 
could come and get them.''
  Sergeant Stubby became a lifetime member of the American Legion and 
was recognized as the mascot of Georgetown University in the 1920s, 
where Private Conroy then studied law. In 1921, Stubby was awarded the 
Humane Education Society's Hero Dog gold medal and earned the honor of 
meeting General John ``Blackjack'' Pershing, the highest ranking 
servicemember since General George Washington, at that time.

  Sergeant Stubby died in Private Conroy's arms on March 16, 1926.
  Today, Sergeant Stubby is set to be immortalized in an animated film

[[Page H1533]]

premiering next month. That will be great for us all to see. His 
loyalty, bravery, and selflessness is the legacy for thousands of 
service dogs being trained at any given time in all branches of our 
military, as well as our local, State, and Federal law enforcement 
agencies.
  While we aren't yet able to measure the exact number of lives saved 
by service dogs, one thing is certain: dogs really are a man's and 
woman's best friend. We are forever grateful and indebted to these 
animals and applaud them, their handlers and caretakers for their 
tireless service and devotion to duty and showing us the true meaning 
of ``battle buddy.''
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend from Pennsylvania, 
Brigadier General Scott Perry, for sharing that story.
  The attitude and loyalty of the dog is amazing, as well as the 
singularity of purpose in their drive and ambition.
  Like I said, yesterday, we got to experience police K-9 dogs going 
after a victim. I was the victim. I had a glove on my arm. But we saw 
the intent and the way those dogs focus. They showed us a demonstration 
of sniffing out gunpowder. They hid it in a big room with all sorts of 
explosives. These dogs just go to task and don't complain. I think 
there is a lesson we all can learn from.
  I thank the gentleman for his participation and for his story. I look 
forward to that movie. It is funny how people say dogs can't talk, but 
we know they do through their body language. That is why movies like 
that that highlight the actions of an animal, especially dogs, do so 
well. I know that will be a blockbuster.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. 
Jones).
  Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for hosting this 
tonight for us to talk about the importance of these dogs. They are 
more than dogs; they are buddies to our men and women in uniform who 
have been fighting for America.
  Mr. Speaker, in the year 2000, I had the honor and the pleasure of 
meeting John Burnam, retired United States Army combat infantryman and 
dog handler during the Vietnam war. He approached me with the idea of a 
War Dog Memorial to honor our great K-9 veterans.
  John shared with me the impact that these animals had on him and his 
fellow handlers in the sixties. They are forever emotionally grateful 
for their K-9 buddies.
  Through this relationship, as we began to work on a War Dog Memorial 
in 2007, which took several years, a marine named Dustin Lee was killed 
in the Iraq war. John had written a story. He wanted me to read the 
story and then speak out and reach out to General Regner, United States 
Marine Corps, and ask him to please retire this wonderful animal named 
Lex, a German shepherd, who had also been wounded with his master, and 
ask General Regner to reach out to the Air Force to retire Lex.
  I want to read briefly the story that John had written and given to 
me. I will read five paragraphs from the article, ``My Partner 
Dustin.''
  ``I'm a U.S. Marine and the primary element of a two-member team 
trained to hunt and locate explosives. My partner and I trained as a 
team for many months honing our expertise to save American lives in the 
war on terrorism in Iraq.
  ``It's March 21, 2007, and I'm on the job in Fallujah, Iraq, when an 
enemy-fired rocket propelled grenade explodes in our midst. I'm blasted 
to the ground and stunned. My head is ringing and my body feels numb. 
My eyes can't quite focus on anything.
  ``My partner is lying next to me severely wounded and bleeding. I 
move to him and touch him, but he's not responding. I feel sharp pains 
in my side and back. I'm bleeding but deal with it and concentrate on 
comforting my partner and protecting him from further harm.
  ``Everything's happening so fast that I'm disorientated and confused. 
My senses pick up the lingering smell of burnt powder and smoke from 
the explosion. I hear lots of American voices and heavy boot steps 
hurrying all around us. They reach our location and immediately attend 
to my partner, then carry him away. I'm separated from my partner for 
the first time. I'm not clear of thought, and then I, too, am carried 
way but to a different hospital.
  ``I'm in a building lying on a table with lights above and people 
talking. Still dazed and confused, I hear a strange voice saying my 
name, `Lex.' I gesture a slight reflex of acknowledgment. `Lex, you are 
going to be okay buddy. Just lay still. We are going to take care of 
your wounds, so stay calm okay, Lex?' My eyes dart around the room 
searching for my partner, but he's not there and no one can interpret 
my thoughts.''
  The partner died.
  I was called by John Burnam to read this story. I sent this story to 
General Mike Regner. I said: Mike, we need to retire this dog for the 
family.
  Mr. Speaker, the family lived in Mississippi. I didn't know them.
  This story, which I include in the Record, touched my heart.

                         ``My Partner Dustin''

                 (By John C. Burnam, December 21, 2007)

       I'm a U.S. Marine and the primary element of a two-member 
     team trained to hunt and locate explosives. My partner and I 
     trained as a team for many months honing our expertise to 
     save American lives in the War on Terrorism in Iraq.
       It's March 21, 2007 and I'm on the job in Fallujah, Iraq 
     when an enemy fired Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG) explodes 
     in our midst. I'm blasted to the ground and stunned. My head 
     is ringing and my body feels numb. My eyes can't quite focus 
     on anything.
       My partner is lying next to me severely wounded and 
     bleeding. I move to him and touch him but he's not 
     responding. I feel sharp pains in my side and back. I'm 
     bleeding but deal with it and concentrate on comforting my 
     partner and protecting him from further harm.
       Everything's happening so fast that I'm disorientated and 
     confused. My senses pick up the lingering smell of burnt 
     powder and smoke from the explosion. I hear lots of American 
     voices and heavy boot-steps hurrying all around us. They 
     reach our location and immediately attend to my partner, then 
     carry him away. I'm separated from my partner for the first 
     time. I'm not clear of thought and then I too am carried way 
     but to a different hospital.
       I'm in a building lying on a table with lights above and 
     people talking. Still dazed and confused I hear a strange 
     voice say my name, ``Lex!'' I gesture a slight reflex of 
     acknowledgement. ``Lex! You are going to be okay buddy! Just 
     lay still. We are going to take care of your wounds, so stay 
     calm okay, Lex?'' My eyes dart around the room searching for 
     my partner, but he's not there and no one can interpret my 
     thoughts.
       Later, I'm released from the hospital and well enough to 
     travel so they transfer me from Iraq to a U.S. Marine Corp 
     base in Albany, Georgia. I really miss my partner, Dusty. I 
     know something has happened to him because he would never 
     have left me alone for so long.
       Yes, my name is Lex. I'm a seven year old German shepherd 
     Military Working Dog, service number E132. My master and 
     loyal partner is Corporal Dustin Jerome Lee, 20 year old U.S. 
     Marine Corps canine handler from Quitman, Mississippi. I'm 
     well disciplined to my master's commands and expertly trained 
     to sniff out bombs and explosives. Where's my master, Dusty, 
     my partner? No one can understand me but Dusty. Where's 
     Dusty?
       Iraq was to be my last combat tour before retirement. Dusty 
     talked to me all the time about going home and adopting me. I 
     sure do miss him. He is the best friend I've ever had. I love 
     that crazy Marine from Mississippi!
       No one can measure the love and unconditional loyalty I 
     have for Dusty. I'd sacrifice my own life for him and he 
     knows it. I just wish I could have stopped that RPG or pushed 
     Dusty away from that powerful blast. It all happened in a 
     blink of an eye and I didn't see it coming until it was too 
     late. Now I sit alone in my kennel-run waiting for the day 
     Dusty shows up.
       The U.S. Marines are treating me very well. I get enough 
     food and water and exercise each day. And the veterinarian 
     comes by to examine my wounds on a regular basis. I just 
     can't sleep well at night. I wake up to every little noise 
     and I think about Dusty. Where can that Marine be?
       The nights are long. The days turn into weeks. Still no 
     Dusty! My wounds are healing and my hair is growing back. The 
     pain is still in my back but I can walk okay. I have a piece 
     of shrapnel near my spine that the veterinarians avoid 
     removing for fear of worse complications. I have spent twelve 
     weeks in rehabilitation after my surgery and declared 
     physically unable to perform in a combat zone.
       One of the dog handlers gave me a real good bath and 
     grooming. I felt so refreshed because I was on my way to meet 
     Dusty's family. Maybe Dusty will be there waiting for me. 
     When I arrived I sensed something was not quite right. Dusty 
     wasn't there and everyone was sad, but very happy to greet 
     me. I then realized that I was attending Dusty's funeral. 
     Everyone showed up to pay their respects.
       Dusty is a real American hero and he was buried with full 
     military honors. I was so proud to have been his last best 
     friend and

[[Page H1534]]

     partner. At one particular moment of total silence during the 
     ceremony, I sniffed a slight scent in the air that was very 
     familiar. It smelled like Dusty. I figured he sent me a 
     signal that he knew I was there! I wagged my tail and moaned 
     a sigh of grief that he would only hear and understand. I 
     just about lost my tail in that horrible explosion and the 
     veterinarian fixed it so it still wags okay.
       I was greeted by the Lee family with joy in their hearts. 
     The picture is of Dustin's mom, Rachel, and me in church. It 
     felt so warm and comfortable to be with my partner's loving 
     family. I wanted to stay but I was escorted away after the 
     funeral and back to Albany, Georgia. What is going to happen 
     to me now?
       Wait a minute! I was due for retirement, right? Why did the 
     military take me to see Dusty's family and not leave me 
     there? I belong with them in Mississippi not here in Georgia.
       The Lee family adopting me would not be too much to ask 
     considering they will never again see their son, grandson, 
     brother, nephew and friend. Adopting me will keep a big part 
     of Dusty's life alive for them and for me. I will enable 
     Dusty's family to experience what he already knew about me. I 
     loved and protected him everywhere we went and even on the 
     battlefield in Iraq. It's time the U.S. Marine Corps allowed 
     Dustin's family to adopt me. I'm not a young pup anymore, you 
     know! I'm a senior of retirement age. I want to spend last 
     years of my life with the Lee family. It's where I now 
     belong!
       It's been eight long months since we buried my partner, 
     Dustin, and all attempts by the Lee family to adopt me have 
     failed. The Marines have placed me back on duty training new 
     recruits. My back bothers me some but I'm an expert on the 
     job. It's the recruits that have a lot to learn about keeping 
     their eyes on me and understanding my body language. Dustin 
     and I bonded as a team and our minds were always in sync.
       There has been a turn of events in my adoption. U.S. 
     Congressman Walter B. Jones of North Carolina heard my story 
     and immediately contacted the U.S. Marine Corps Commandant at 
     the Pentagon in Washington D.C. requesting my urgent release.
       The Marines really showed off their compassion for the Lee 
     family and me too! They even dispatched a veterinarian to 
     give me a complete final medical examination. I feel a sense 
     of excitement I haven't felt in a very long time. I even have 
     a prance in my step!
       That's a Christmas picture of me and Dusty in Iraq, 
     December 2006. That's me smiling with the Lee family and some 
     of Dusty's Marine pals at the funeral in Quitman, 
     Mississippi, April 2007.
       The top Marine brass and the veterinarian signed the 
     official papers saying I'm A-OK to be adopted. I got an 
     honorable discharge from the U.S. Marine Corps on December 
     21, 2007, the anniversary day of Dustin's death. I will be 
     home with the Lee family for Christmas.
       That's a picture of me greeting the Lee family at my 
     retirement ceremony at the U.S. Marine Corps base, Albany, 
     Georgia, December 21, 2007. The news media was everywhere! My 
     adoption even made the nightly news on national television. 
     I'm the first Marine Corps combat veteran working dog to ever 
     be retired to the family of a fallen Marine.
       Dusty? I'm sure you had a lot to do with all this from 
     heaven. And I can hardly wait to visit your room and lie down 
     on your bed and sniff your boots and clothes. Living with 
     your family will be like having you around again, Dusty!
           Always Faithful,
     Lex (E132),
       German Shepherd, Military Working Dog, U.S. Marine Corps 
     Veteran (Retired).

  Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, I called him and I said: Mike, this family 
has lost everything, their son. They want Lex to retire and live out 
the rest of his life.
  He had shrapnel in his back.
  So, the Air Force agreed with General Regner and retired the dog. 
That dog spent 8 years with the family of the marine who was killed.
  I went over to Walter Reed on a regular basis during the Iraq war, 
and I never will forget a young Army guy who had lost his leg. He told 
me the story. He was a dog handler of a platoon and waiting for the dog 
to go out and sniff an IED. The dog goes out, finds the IED, and turns 
around and looks at the platoon. Then the IED exploded.
  There are so many of these stories that it is hard to even get a 
record of them.

                              {time}  1945

  In closing, I wanted to thank former President George W. Bush. He 
signed the bill to erect a War Dog Memorial at Lackland Air Force Base. 
John Burnam deserves so much credit. He got the private sector to pay 
for the memorial at Lackland Air Force Base. So the dogs that Mr. Yoho 
and others have spoken about tonight will never be forgotten. There is 
a memorial for them and the work they have done for this country.
  I want to say that, to me, of all the things--I have been in Congress 
20 years--but when you touch a dog, you touch a child. These dogs have 
done so much to save the children who are now soldiers, marines, 
airmen, and sailors, to save those people from being killed by IEDs and 
the enemy.
  So, again, I thank Mr. Yoho very much for putting this together, and 
I thank God that we can always remember that an animal is a gift from 
God as much as we are as human beings.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend from North Carolina. 
And I love that story. That is a great story. What you touched on is 
the loyalty, the trust, the integrity of these working dogs--not only 
in the work they do, but when they come back to the home--of what they 
do. It is unconditional love and unconditional loyalty.
  We should take a lesson from that as humans, shouldn't we?
  Mr. JONES. Amen.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, at this time, I would like to tell a story 
from my district, and this deals with seizing the drugs and profits 
that arm criminals: As part of their regularly assigned duties with the 
Gainesville-Alachua County Drug Task Force, Sergeant Bryan Jones and K-
9 Jerry responded to assist another agent with a traffic stop on 
Interstate 75. Despite a series of efforts by the suspect, like those 
seen on television to hide contraband in hidden compartments, K-9 Jerry 
couldn't be fooled--locating nearly $100,000 in cash and over a 
kilogram of narcotics. It is just amazing how these dogs know what to 
do and they are so good at it. They smell things that we can't even 
think about with their sensory perception.
  Another story is rescuing those that need our help: In February 2018, 
the Florida Highway Patrol contacted the Alachua County Sheriff's 
Office after finding an abandoned vehicle along Interstate 75 near San 
Felasco Hammock Preserve State Park. It appeared as though the driver, 
diagnosed with a mental illness and having fled his home in south 
Florida, may have wandered into the park and its over 7,000 acres of 
forest, sinkholes, rattle snakes, ponds, alligators, and trails.
  Deputy Sheriff Lloyd O'Quinn and K-9 Eins began tracking the subject 
through the woods until becoming physically exhausted in the heat. 
Deputy Sheriff James Riley and K-9 Knight, Deputy Sheriff Esau Bright 
and K-9 Rosco, Deputy Sheriff Chris Drake and K-9 Rous, and Sergeant 
Michael Hurlocker and K-9 Havok all responded and relieved one another 
with tracking throughout the park.
  After tracking and searching the wooded area for several hours, and 
with the help of the prison bloodhounds sent to assist from the Florida 
Department of Corrections, the driver was safely located and was 
provided the treatment he needed at an area hospital to the relief of 
his family and friends far away.
  Mr. Speaker, at this time, I yield to the gentleman from Virginia, 
Tom Garrett, a good friend of mine that served in our military in the 
Army.
  Mr. GARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Yoho), on this day when we honor dogs that serve 
honorably, just like the women and men who serve our country, for 
putting on this Special Order.
  Anyone who has ever had a dog understands the depths of the bonds 
that can develop between human beings and their four-legged friends. I 
can remember every single dog that we have ever owned. I can remember 
how each one died. I can remember being there when two died. I never 
had the discipline or the opportunity or honor to serve with the 
working dogs that defend not just our country abroad, but also here at 
home. But as I say, of my time in the military, I am not a hero, but I 
have gotten to meet some.
  In researching for this opportunity to honor those four-legged heroes 
and those with whom they work, I had the opportunity to read about some 
books: ``Always Faithful,'' a book about Marine Corps working dogs by 
William Putney; ``The Dogs of War'' by Lisa Rogak; ``War Dogs'' by 
Rebecca Frankel; and ``Sergeant Rex'' by Mike Dowling, among the most 
highly commended; as well as ``Unconditional Honor'' primarily by Cathy 
Scott,

[[Page H1535]]

which recognizes the fact that those of you watching at home, and this 
Record, might not contemplate, and that is the role that dogs play, not 
just on the battlefield and in finding missing people, and fighting 
crime here at home, but also when helping our servicemen and -women 
recover from wounds visible and invisible when they return to this 
country.
  Indeed, thousands of servicemembers, welcomed by a climate that is 
shifting as it relates to service dogs, take the definition of working 
dog beyond the battlefield and outside of the field of crime and 
punishment into bedrooms and living rooms, and they help our brothers 
and sisters heal from wounds that most of us, praise God, will never be 
able to imagine.
  As I think has been noted, at any given time, there are more than 
over 2,000 military working dogs with roughly 700 working overseas. 
These specially trained dogs can cost anywhere from $5,000 to $30,000 
to procure and train, and about 30 service dogs annually are killed in 
the line of duty.
  When I was in the military, we always looked with admiration upon the 
individuals who had the decorations and the pins and an adornments that 
very few people would earn. One was HALO wings. That stands for high 
altitude low opening. That is when you jump out of an airplane so high 
that someone couldn't possibly imagine that there might be someone 
inserting via this mechanism. Well, indeed, we have military dogs that 
insert this way, as well as strapped to their handlers via helicopter, 
and every other imaginable circumstance.

  In fact, as I look at history, the oldest documented accounts of dogs 
either being used as accoutrements to defend their people or 
accompanying their masters onto the field of battle are almost 3,000 
years old, and this is about as long as we can go back into documented 
written history. But tonight, Mr. Speaker, I want to speak briefly 
about a personal friend and hero.
  In early 2006, Patrick Sheridan of the Louisa County Sheriff's Office 
procured Magpie Electric Potential from a bloodhound kennel in New 
Jersey and began working very hard with what I believe was the second 
dog that Lieutenant Sheridan would train. In fact, Lieutenant Sheridan 
and his K-9 team have become so successful in working K-9 operations 
and scent tracking, specifically, that they have tracked individuals on 
multiple continents and in multiple nations. And over the course of 
Magpie Electric Potential's, aka Maggie's, 6-year career, she worked 
almost 350 calls for service.
  In 2010 alone, her duties ranged from trailing breaking-and-entering 
suspects and suspects in violent crime cases to helping locate a 
missing 5-year-old child before that child succumbed to the elements.
  On December 12, 2011, Maggie and Lieutenant Sheridan were not engaged 
in chasing down a drug dealer or finding some horrific individual and 
preventing them from visiting domestic violence on someone once too 
frequently victimized, but, instead, searching for an individual who 
had been reported missing and suicidal. I make this point to note that 
these dogs defend the people with whom they serve and the people of our 
communities.
  On this occasion, Maggie, while trailing again on nearly her 350th 
working call, encountered a pit bull and ultimately was attacked and 
succumbed to her injuries. Her end of watch on December 12, 2011, 
represents one of hundreds of working dog deaths just this century.
  I, too, commend former President Bush for the establishment and the 
use of private citizen dollars to do such of a War Dog Memorial and 
hope that we will see something similar done as it relates to those 
working dogs who defend us not in the military, but in law enforcement 
here at home, not only by pursuing and apprehending criminals, but also 
by finding missing children and those who might harm themselves.
  Mr. Speaker, I would commend to those viewing and to the Members of 
this body, when they find a dog handler or someone who had worked as a 
dog handler in the past, please say ``thank you'' for the dedication, 
time, and loyalty that is, indeed, reciprocal and unconditional because 
we need never fathom how many lives have been saved.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the good gentleman from Virginia. The 
gentleman brought up some great things there, the dedication of the 
handlers. Here we have got the Clay County Sheriff's Department with 
Diesel, a bloodhound that these guys are so dedicated with the dogs 
that they work with. It is unbelievable, the good they do, the search 
and the rescue that they do. And you brought up on Maggie how she had--
the 350th working call that Maggie had performed for the people of our 
country.
  And this is something people don't realize, the amount of calls these 
dogs go on and the amount of work that they do. The average lifespan or 
service of these dogs is anywhere from 7 to 9 years, and people wonder 
about the cost of the dog, the cost of a program. Yeah, it is expensive 
to keep these dogs, but what we have found is so many people out there 
who are goodhearted who realize the benefit of the working K-9 that 
they donate the cost of the dog. Many times the cost of the dog can run 
from $5,000 to $9,000 by the time you get it trained, and $4,000 to 
$5,000 a year to maintain these. And there is a lot of community help 
to make sure this gets done.
  Mr. Speaker, I will now talk about another dog at the Gainesville 
Police Department: Justice is a German Shepherd that worked for the 
Gainesville Police Department starting in September 2006. During his 
career, Justice was responsible for locating hundreds of--hundreds of 
offenders. He assisted several other agencies throughout his career to 
include the Florida Highway Patrol, the Alachua County Sheriff's 
Office, the Putnam County Sheriff's Office, the University of Florida 
Police Department, the City of Alachua Police Department, and the City 
of High Springs Police Department.
  Justice was credited with saving a life. The incident involved a 
suicidal person who had taken a deadly amount of prescription pills, 
left a suicide note, and walked off into the woods. After 2 hours of 
officers trying to locate the person, Officer Owens and Justice were 
called to the scene while off duty. Justice was able to track and 
locate the person who was passed out by the effects of the pill and 
clinging to life. EMS was called, and the person was taken to the 
hospital. Doctors stated that if the person was not located when they 
were, the medications taken would have, no doubt, ended in their death 
and another suicide.

  Justice received a lifesaving award through the department. On the 
last night of his career, Justice was called to locate a suspect that 
fled from an officer who recognized him as a felony habitual traffic 
offender and a drug dealer. The officer tried to conduct a traffic stop 
on the vehicle being driven by the suspect. When the officer activated 
his overhead lights, the suspect turned off his headlights, accelerated 
to a high speed, fleeing through a neighborhood. The officer did not 
pursue the vehicle. Another officer located the abandoned vehicle 
minutes later. A perimeter search was established.
  Office Charles Owens and Justice responded to the scene. Justice 
began a track from the driver's side door. The track led through 
several backyards and for several blocks. Justice's track led into a 
wooded area where the suspect was located by Justice trying to conceal 
himself under a fallen tree. If not for Justice, the suspect would have 
eluded capture. Justice was sent to retire at the end of the shift, 
which ended at 4 a.m. He captured his last suspect just in the nick of 
time at 3 a.m. Officer Owens took possession of Justice after his 
retirement, and they have been with each other since.
  Justice turns 15 on March 15 of this year and is still as active as 
he can be in his seasoned age. And I think, again, that is a model for 
all of us to follow.
  Another story, Mr. Speaker, K-9 deputy successfully talks down an 
armed suicidal subject: The Marion County Sheriff's Office deputies 
responded to the 17,800 block of County Road 25 in reference to a 
domestic altercation. It was learned that the suspect battered and 
strangled a female victim. The suspect fled the area, just prior to the 
deputy's arrival. K-9 Deputy Jeremie Nix and K-9 Drago tracked and 
located the suspect in a wooded area, at which time the suspect advised 
he was armed with a firearm and a knife and threatened suicide.

[[Page H1536]]

  


                              {time}  2000

  Deputy Nix was able to create a dialogue with the suspect and 
persuaded him to surrender peacefully. He did not have a firearm, but 
he was armed with a knife. The suspect was arrested and charged with 
domestic battery by strangulation and is being held in the Marion 
County Jail on $10,000 bond.
  During this standoff, Deputy Nix and K-9 Drago accidentally stepped 
into a yellow jacket nest and were stung over 20 times. K-9 Drago was 
taken to the veterinarian's office to be checked out after the call, 
and he and Deputy Nix recovered and are back to work. Great job for 
everyone.
  The K-9 team locates burglar, recovers approximately $3,500 of stolen 
property: On the morning of Thursday, February 1, 2018, Marion County 
Sheriff's Office deputies responded to Ernie's Auction Center, located 
at 5305 South Pine, in reference to a burglary that just occurred.
  As employees were opening the business, it was observed that the 
front door had been forcibly entered and suspects were observed running 
through the inside of the business.
  Deputy Branden Donahue and his K-9 partner, Tipster, and Deputy 
Nickolas Frost immediately tracked the suspect and located him within 
30 minutes. During the track, two different locations were found where 
the suspects were stashing stolen items from the business. The stolen 
property, valued at $3,500, was recovered and returned to the 
businessowner.
  People just don't realize the acute sense that these dogs have and 
why they are so valuable.
  Another story is about Deputy Brian Litz. On February 7, 2004, Deputy 
Brian Litz and another deputy responded to the Pine Run subdivision in 
reference to a well-being check on a 74-year-old individual.
  When the deputies arrived at the house, the individual met them at 
the door with a handgun. Deputy Litz was attempting to pass under the 
front window of the home to get a better visual on the individual with 
the gun. Unknown to Deputy Litz, this person was watching from the 
window, and he then shot and killed Litz.
  Today, a statue in honor of Deputy Litz and his K-9 stands proudly in 
Florida's capital. In a tragic twist, Deputy Litz' call sign was 
Batman. Today, visitors of this statue at the Florida capital can find 
the Batman emblem on the bottom of his K-9's foot.
  Just an amazing story and, again, a great example of the ability of 
these dogs and their success in helping out with people, whether it is 
the person in need, the lost individual, search and rescue, the drug 
dealer, and just people who want to do other people harm in domestic 
violence.
  I just want to briefly talk about dogs and handlers. The Putnam 
County Sheriff's Office has five dogs: Aries, handled by Sergeant Randy 
Hayes; Judo, handled by Blaine Moody; Zeke, handled by Jerry Gentry; 
Halo, handled by Josue Garriga; and Putnam, named after the county, 
handled by Emmett Merritt.
  Bradford County Sheriff's Office: Deputy Brandon Shoup and K-9 Grim.
  Ocala Police Department: Officer King and K-9 Zorba; Officer Burgos 
and K-9 Babbo; Officer Arnold and K-9 Senior.
  The Marion County Sheriff's Office, again, yesterday, we had the 
privilege of going down and presenting all the working dogs and their 
handlers with our Congressional Challenge Coin. As you can see, that 
dog looks rather well the way he is wearing that. At the Marion County 
Sheriff's Office, where we were yesterday, we got to have the 
demonstration on the catch dogs, or attack dogs, and we got a great 
demonstration. There are: Sergeant Daniel Trammell and K-9 Nitro; 
Deputy Alan Lee, who handles K-9 Zeus; Deputy Timothy Fretts with his 
dog, K-9 Robo; Deputy Colton Sullivan with his dog, K-9 Adelmo; Deputy 
Matt Bowers with K-9 Otow, which is named after a retirement village 
that donated the money for their dog; Deputy Jeremie Nix with his dog, 
K-9 Drago; Deputy Branden Donahue with his dog, K-9 Tipster; and as we 
just heard the story, Deputy Matt Hopper with K-9 Rambo.
  The Gainesville Police Department: Corporal Jeff Kerkau with his dog, 
K-9 Roo; Corporal Dylan Hayes-Morrison and his K-9 Ares; Officer Rob 
Rogers and K-9 Nero; Officer Ed Ratliff and his dog, K-9 Ace; Officer 
Josh Meurer and his dog, K-9 Ranger.
  And the Alachua County Sheriff's Office:
  Deputy Sheriff Lloyd O'Quinn and K-9 Eins. We just heard a story 
about them. A Malinois working in patrol, narcotics, and tracking.
  Deputy Sheriff Esau Bright and K-9 Deacon, a Malinois working in 
patrol, narcotics, and trafficking.
  That is what a lot of people don't realize. These dogs are trained in 
multiple disciplines and just work their hearts out.
  Deputy Sheriff Mikell McKoy and his dog, K-9 Kaos, a Malinois working 
in patrol, narcotics, and trafficking.
  Deputy Sheriff Brian Ritter and his dog, K-9 Kolt, a Malinois working 
in patrol, narcotics, and trafficking.
  Deputy Sheriff Chris Griseck and his dog, K-9 Mack, a Malinois 
working in patrol, bombing, and tracking.
  Then there is Deputy Sheriff Bill Arnold and his dog, K-9 Wick, a 
Malinois working in patrol, narcotics, and trafficking.
  I think we are getting the point here of how valuable these dogs are. 
I would recommend to people, if you want to see the value and why we 
want to spend money and allow these dogs to be in our law enforcement, 
military, DEA, then watch demonstrations of these dogs and the 
acuteness of them.
  There is Deputy Sheriff Chris Drake and his dog, K-9 Rous, a Malinois 
working in patrol, bomb, and tracking.
  Sergeant Michael Hurlocker, who we heard the story of, and his K-9 
partner, Havok, a Malinois working in patrol, bomb, and tracking.
  Deputy Sheriff Adam Diaz and his dog, K-9 Shiloh, a Labrador 
Retriever working with the Drug Task Force.
  Sergeant Bryan Jones and K-9 Jerry, a Malinois working with the Drug 
Task Force.
  And then there is Sergeant Nigel Lowe and K-9 Zoey, a mixed breed 
working narcotics detection in our schools; and K-9 Malzi, a Malinois 
just joining the sheriff's office as a gun detection dog in our 
schools.

  It is interesting, after the Parkland shooting on February 14, we had 
a roundtable of law enforcement, county sheriffs, city police chiefs, 
superintendents, school resource officers, and one of the things that 
came out of there is how the resource officers in our schools act as a 
deterrent for a lot of the kids. They are there. They see a person of 
authority.
  One of the sheriffs brought up what I thought was a great suggestion 
that a lot of people also thought was a great suggestion, and that is a 
dog that can detect gunpowder in our schools. Let them tour the 
schools, let them show what the policemen can do beneficially to all of 
us.
  It is a shame that we are in a time in society where we have to worry 
about guns going off in school, but until we rectify the underlying 
cause of that, I think we need to do what we can to keep our schools 
safe so our kids feel safe going to school.
  I just want to end with this picture. Again, this is the Clay County 
Sheriff's Office with their dog, Diesel, who proudly took our 
Congressional Challenge Coin.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to give a shout-out to all the offices that 
participated and shared stories with us. We are proud of them. We are 
proud of their K-9s. I don't want to say we are more proud of the K-9s 
than we are of them, but we are proud of all of them for the work that 
they do to keep us safer as citizens of the Third Congressional 
District, but also around the country and around the world.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



