

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1314-S1316]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS

  The following petitions and memorials were laid before the Senate and 
were referred or ordered to lie on the table as indicated:

       POM-174. A resolution adopted by the Senate of the State of 
     Michigan urging the United States Congress to enact 
     legislation that provides the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration and regional management councils 
     additional tools to effectively and appropriately manage our 
     nation's important saltwater recreational fisheries; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

                       Senate Resolution No. 118

       Whereas, U.S. saltwater fisheries are among the world's 
     largest and most sustainable, providing significant economic 
     impact across the nation. The National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and regional management 
     councils set catch limits, ensure compliance with fisheries 
     regulations, and reduce unintended catches to provide 
     continued economic and recreational opportunities; and
       Whereas, Inaccurate and inconsistent data used to make 
     decisions concerning saltwater fishing stocks, as well as a 
     one-size-fits-all management approach, have led to curtailed 
     recreational fishing opportunities, frustrating recreational 
     anglers and adversely impacting Michigan companies that 
     manufacture recreational fisheries products. Michigan is home 
     to several boat and fishing tackle manufacturers who sell 
     their products nationwide. These companies employ thousands 
     of skilled workers, having a substantial impact on Michigan's 
     economy; and
       Whereas, Improved data collection and implementing 
     management tools more suitable for recreational fisheries 
     will enhance public access to fish and continue to conserve 
     our saltwater fisheries resources. Not only will recreational 
     anglers benefit, but also thousands of fishing-related 
     businesses that depend on reasonable angler access to healthy 
     saltwater fisheries. The Modernizing Recreational Fisheries 
     Management Act of 2017, S. 1520, would update federal 
     fisheries management for recreational angling by allowing 
     alternative management techniques, improve data collection, 
     ensure periodic review of allocations in important mixed-use 
     fisheries, and continue to rebuild overfished stocks, among 
     other benefits, to anglers and the nation, now, therefore, be 
     it
       Resolved by the Senate, That we memorialize the Congress of 
     the United States to enact legislation that provides the 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and regional 
     management councils additional tools to effectively and 
     appropriately manage our nation's important saltwater 
     recreational fisheries, and be it further
       Resolved, That copies of this resolution be transmitted to 
     the President of the United States Senate, the Speaker of the 
     United States House of Representatives, and the members of 
     the Michigan congressional delegation.
                                  ____

       POM-175. A concurrent resolution adopted by the Legislative 
     Assembly of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico requesting the 
     United States Congress and the United States Department of 
     Interior to take the necessary administrative and legislative 
     actions in order to provide for the updating of the various 
     topographic and hydrographic maps of our Island; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                             S. Con. Res. 1


                          Statement of Motives

       The United States Geological Survey (hereinafter, the USGS) 
     is a scientific organization that provides unbiased 
     information on the health of our ecosystems and the 
     environment; the natural hazards that threaten us; the 
     natural resources, based on the impact of climate change and 
     land use; and the core science systems that allow us to 
     provide timely, relevant, and useful information.
       As the Nation's largest water, earth, and biological 
     science mapping agency, the USGS collects, monitors, 
     analyzes, and provides scientific knowledge on the condition 
     of the natural resources and any problems and issues related 
     thereto. The agency's diverse scientific knowledge enables it 
     to conduct large-scale multidisciplinary investigation, and 
     to provide unbiased scientific information to resource 
     managers, planners, and other customers. Likewise, the USGS 
     works in conjunction with other federal agencies as well as 
     the private sector through official memoranda of 
     understanding and memoranda of agreement in order to fulfill 
     the agency's scientific mission.
       The services offered by the USGS are of utmost importance 
     for Puerto Rico. The maps drawn by this entity are used for 
     multiple purposes, such as the identification of drainage 
     basins and the topography, land classification, localization, 
     and the location of water resources, properties, 
     delimitation, etc.
       As a matter of fact, the USGS's plans are part of the 
     requirements of the permit process carried out by the 
     government agencies of Puerto Rico. However, the 
     aforementioned maps are not up to date and most of them date 
     back to many decades. As expected, our Island and its 
     topography have been altered in the last forty (40) or fifty 
     (50) years; therefore, it is necessary to amend and update 
     said maps.
       The USGS keeps evolving and, in 2010, the agency made 
     changes to its structure in order to focus on or pay special 
     attention to natural hazards. For such reason, the importance 
     of the accuracy in the records or documents that the agency 
     provides must be recognized. Regarding the USGS's maps of our 
     Island, it is essential that these maps are updated in order 
     to avoid issues in future developments and make an orderly 
     land planning feasible.
       In view of these circumstances and through this Concurrent 
     Resolution, this Legislative Assembly hereby requests the 
     United States Congress and the pertinent federal agencies to 
     provide for the updating of the various topographic and 
     hydrographic maps of our Island.
       Be it resolved by the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico:
       Section 1.--To request the United States Congress and the 
     United States Department of Interior to take the necessary 
     administrative and legislative actions in order to provide 
     for the updating of the various topographic and hydrographic 
     maps of our Island.
       Section 2.--It is hereby provided that a certification on 
     this Concurrent Resolution shall be issued immediately to be 
     delivered to the United States Congress and the United States 
     Department of the Interior.
       Section 3.--This Concurrent Resolution shall be translated 
     into English to be delivered as provided in Section 2.
       Section 4.--This Concurrent Resolution shall take effect 
     immediately after its approval.
                                  ____

       POM-176. A concurrent resolution adopted by the Legislature 
     of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico memorializing the 
     Assembly's opposition to H.R. 4202, the ``Parity in Animal 
     Cruelty Enforcement Act''; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.

                            S. Con. Res. 28


                          Statement of Motives

       The sport of cockfighting began in Puerto Rico in the 17th 
     century, when it was officially established on April 5, 1770 
     by the decree of Spanish governor Don Miguel de

[[Page S1315]]

     Muesas. At that time, cockfighting was already a pastime in 
     most European countries. It was so popular that, during the 
     reign of King Henry VIII, cockfights were held in the Palace 
     of Whitehall, in the courtyards and interiors of churches, 
     and even in the British Parliament. Likewise, cockfights were 
     so popular in France that they adopted the gamecock as their 
     national symbol.
       In the United States, some presidents were fans of the 
     sport, among them, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, 
     Andrew Jackson, and Abraham Lincoln who was known as ``Honest 
     Abe'' due to being a good pit judge. In fact, for many years, 
     it was acceptable and encouraged in the United States for a 
     gentleman to raise game fowls and be an expert at the sport.
       Over the years, cockfight bans began appearing all across 
     the Nation. In 1898, the sport was banned after Puerto Rico 
     became a territory of the United States of America, but 
     underground cockfights continued. However, as a result of the 
     fight put up by the third President of the Senate of Puerto 
     Rico, the Honorable Rafael Martinez-Nadal, who was a fan of 
     the sport and defended this Island tradition, then Governor 
     of Puerto Rico, Robert Gore, repealed the ban and promulgated 
     legislation which recognized cockfighting as a legitimate 
     sport in the Island.
       As a result of the above mentioned, the rule of law has 
     recognized that the sport of cockfighting has been part of 
     our culture and traditions. According to Jose S. Alegria, 
     ``the sport of cockfighting was a leveler that made a 
     gentleman out of all those who visited the pits, regardless 
     of their standing in society.'' This sport is known as the 
     ``gentlemen's sport,'' because the people who follow the same 
     keep their word during the competitions, without the need for 
     a contract or a similar document for such purposes.
       Although this sport has millions of fans in dozens of 
     countries around the world, Puerto Rico is still considered 
     ``the Mecca'' of cockfighting. The sport is so well 
     established that, unlike many other sports on the Island, 
     cockfighting does not require subsidies from the Government 
     of Puerto Rico. Moreover, it is estimated to generate over 
     twenty-seven thousand (27,000) direct and indirect jobs. 
     Likewise, this sport greatly impacts Puerto Rico's tourism 
     because we receive visitors from Mexico, the Dominican 
     Republic, and other countries who travel to the Island to 
     partake in the sport of cockfighting.
       Since its beginnings in Puerto Rico, the sport of 
     cockfighting has faced great challenges and has overcome 
     them. In 2007, the Federal Government passed the Animal 
     Welfare Act[sic], Pub. Law 110-22 which classified as a 
     felony the transport, sale, and purchase of tools and 
     paraphernalia relating to this activity, among other things. 
     At that time, the territories and places where cockfighting 
     was legal were excluded from the application of the Act.
       However, HR 4202 was introduced on November 1 of this year, 
     jeopardizing the continuity of this sport in Puerto Rico. On 
     this occasion, the express intent of the bill is to extend 
     the total ban against animal fighting set forth in the 
     ``Animal Welfare Act'' to the United States territories. 
     Moreover, it prohibits the purchase, sale, or transportation 
     of accessories to be used in cockfights, and even imposes 
     penalties of imprisonment. The congress members who 
     introduced this measure consider these types of fights animal 
     cruelty.
       It is worth noting that the sport of cockfighting in Puerto 
     Rico is well regulated. For instance, safety measures are 
     taken to guarantee that participating gamecocks wear the same 
     spurs and are of the same age, weight, and bet. Furthermore, 
     pit judges are empowered to stop the fight if they notice 
     either excessive punishment or that a gamecock is not fit to 
     continue fighting. Once the fight is over, both gamecocks are 
     examined by specialized staff and treated accordingly for 
     their prompt recovery. Hence, it is evident that our industry 
     has taken measures to ensure the protection of gamecocks.
       The enactment of HR 4202 shall threaten a century-old 
     practice that is deeply rooted in our culture, history, and 
     traditions. Moreover, said bill shall affect various 
     components of our economy that provide services related to 
     this sport, such as veterinarians, game fowl breeders, 
     agricultural stores, and trophies and awards manufacturers, 
     among others. For all of the foregoing, the Legislative 
     Assembly is compelled to firmly and unequivocally reject the 
     enactment of HR 4202, since it does not take into account the 
     adverse effect that such bill shall have on Puerto Rico's 
     economy and culture.
       Be it resolved by the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico:
       Section 1.--To express the firm and unequivocal repudiation 
     and opposition of the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico to 
     HR 4202 of the United States House of Representatives that 
     seeks to apply the ``Animal Welfare Act'' to United States 
     territories and, consequently, prohibits cockfights in Puerto 
     Rico.
       Section 2.--A certified copy of this Concurrent Resolution 
     translated into English shall be delivered to the members of 
     the Senate and of the House of Representatives of the U.S. 
     Congress and to the President of the United States of 
     America.
       Section 3.--This Concurrent Resolution shall take effect 
     upon its approval.
                                  ____

       POM-177. A resolution adopted by the Senate of the General 
     Assembly of the State of Indiana urging the President of the 
     United States and United States Congress to instruct the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to remove Lake and Porter 
     counties from the Chicago Nonattainment Area; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.

                         Senate Resolution Four

       Whereas, The motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) 
     programs in Lake and Porter counties were mandated by the 
     federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, based on Lake and 
     Porter counties' designation as ``nonattainment'', along with 
     northeast Illinois and southeast Wisconsin, under the one-
     hour ozone standard;
       Whereas, According to the United States Environmental 
     Protection Agency (EPA), cars and trucks collectively are the 
     single greatest contributor to ground-level ozone, the major 
     component of smog;
       Whereas, The purpose of an I/M program is to reduce ground-
     level ozone by ensuring that the emission control systems on 
     vehicles are working correctly;
       Whereas, Generally, only vehicles registered in Lake and 
     Porter counties are subject to the I/M programs in Lake and 
     Porter counties;
       Whereas, Lake and Porter counties in northwest Indiana are 
     intersected by Interstate Highway 80/90 and Interstate 
     Highway 94, two of the most heavily traveled highways in the 
     Midwest, and Lake County is also intersected by Interstate 
     Highway 65, another heavily traveled highway, linking major 
     southern cities with Indianapolis and Chicago;
       Whereas, The citizens of Lake and Porter counties have been 
     burdened with the cost of the testing and remediation 
     required under the I/M program, even though thousands of out-
     of-state vehicles pass through these areas on a daily basis 
     without the burden of submitting to the I/M program;
       Whereas, Lake and Porter counties are linked to the Chicago 
     Nonattainment Area based on violations in northeast Illinois 
     and southeast Wisconsin;
       Whereas, Under the standards promulgated in 2015 for ozone, 
     nine monitors within the Chicago Nonattainment Area exceed 
     the standard, but none of the monitors are located in 
     Indiana; and
       Whereas, Lake and Porter counties have the most stringent 
     suite of control measures in the Midwest, and have 
     consistently met EPA's objectives: therefore, be it
       Resolved by the Senate of the General Assembly of the State 
     of Indiana:
       Section 1. That the Indiana General Assembly urges the 
     Honorable Donald J. Trump, President of the United States; 
     the Honorable Michael R. Pence, Vice President of the United 
     States; and members of the United States Congress from 
     Indiana to instruct the Environmental Protection Agency to 
     remove Lake and Porter counties from the Chicago 
     Nonattainment Area, and thereby eliminate the requirements 
     under which the motor vehicle inspection and maintenance 
     programs in Lake and Porter counties are operated.
       Section 2. That copies of this resolution be transmitted by 
     the Secretary of the Senate to the Honorable Donald J. Trump, 
     President of the United States; the Honorable Michael R. 
     Pence, Vice President of the United States; the Honorable Joe 
     Donnelly, the Honorable Todd Young, the Honorable Pete 
     Visclosky, the Honorable Jackie Walorski, the Honorable Jim 
     Banks, the Honorable Todd Rokita, the Honorable Susan Brooks, 
     the Honorable Luke Messer, the Honorable Andre Carson, the 
     Honorable Larry Bucshon, and the Honorable Trey Hollingsworth 
     of the U.S. Congress; Scott Pruitt, the Administrator of the 
     United States Environmental Protection Agency; and Robert A. 
     Kaplan, the Acting Regional Administrator for EPA Region 5 in 
     Chicago.
                                  ____

       POM-178. A resolution adopted by the Senate of the State of 
     California relative to the 45th anniversary of the Roe v. 
     Wade decision; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.

                        Senate Resolution No. 72

       Whereas, January 22, 2018, marks the 45th anniversary of 
     the United States Supreme Court's landmark decision in Roe v. 
     Wade, which affirmed that every woman has a fundamental right 
     to control her own reproductive decisions and to decide 
     whether to end or to continue pregnancy, and is an occasion 
     deserving of acknowledgment; and
       Whereas, Roe v. Wade has been the cornerstone of women's 
     ability to control their reproductive lives, allowing every 
     woman in the United States the right to decide when, if, and 
     with whom to have children, and how many children to have; 
     and
       Whereas, Women's ability to control their reproductive 
     lives has helped and facilitated their participation in the 
     economic and social life of our nation; and
       Whereas, Roe v. Wade has drastically reduced the maternal 
     mortality rate for women terminating their pregnancies in the 
     United States. In the years prior to the decision, illegal 
     abortion accounted for approximately 17 percent of all 
     reported deaths attributable to pregnancy and childbirth, and 
     many women were severely injured as a result of ``back 
     alley'' abortion procedures; and
       Whereas, Interference with a woman's right to choose causes 
     women to be forced into illegal and dangerous abortions, as 
     they often were in the United States before the Roe v. Wade 
     decision. Many women are forced to make these decisions today 
     in countries where abortion is illegal and unsafe. Each year 
     between 4.7 percent to 13.2

[[Page S1316]]

     percent of maternal deaths can be attributed to unsafe 
     abortion. Many survivors of an illegal abortion suffer 
     serious and often permanent injuries; and
       Whereas, Roe v. Wade continues to protect the health and 
     freedom of women throughout the United States; and
       Whereas, The State of California stands in strong support 
     of every woman's fundamental right, as confirmed in Roe v. 
     Wade, to make her own decisions regarding her pregnancy; now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, That the 
     Senate urges the President of the United States and the 
     United States Congress to express their support for a woman's 
     fundamental right to control her own reproductive decisions, 
     as well as their support for access to comprehensive 
     reproductive health care, including the services provided by 
     Planned Parenthood; and be it further
       Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies 
     of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the 
     United States, to the Speaker of the House of 
     Representatives, to the Majority Leader of the Senate, to 
     each Senator and Representative from California in the 
     Congress of the United States, and to the author for 
     appropriate distribution.

                          ____________________



