

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2069]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   REMEMBERING BRONSON C. La FOLLETTE

  Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Bronson C. La 
Follette, who was born in 1936 in Washington, DC, and passed away March 
15, 2018, in Madison, WI. Bronson dedicated his life to the pursuit of 
justice and was known as the People's Lawyer. He was a progressive in 
the tradition of his father, Senator Robert M. La Follette, Jr., and 
his grandparents Senator Robert M. ``Fighting Bob'' La Follette, Sr., 
and Belle Case La Follette.
  A true Badger at heart, Bronson earned his bachelor's and law degrees 
from the University of Wisconsin--Madison. Following his graduation in 
1960, he worked in private practice before being appointed Assistant 
U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Wisconsin by U.S. Attorney 
General Robert Kennedy. In 1964, at the age of 28, he was elected as 
Wisconsin's attorney general and served two terms. He was the youngest 
state attorney general in American history ever elected to the office. 
As attorney general, he was a champion for consumer protection and 
served as chair of President Lyndon Johnson's Consumer Advisory 
Council.
  In 1968, Bronson became the Democratic Party's nominee for Governor 
of Wisconsin, an election he lost to incumbent Governor Warren Knowles. 
In 1974, Bronson was again elected as attorney general of Wisconsin, 
vowing to make the department of justice live up to its name. To 
Bronson, that meant taking on an activist role, hiring a bright young 
progressive team, and not being afraid to tackle new ideas and 
sensitive subjects head on. Wisconsinites will recognize some of the 
attorneys who made up that bright, young team because two of them have 
become iconic progressives in their own right. Ed Garvey and Kathleen 
Falk spent a portion of their early careers in Bronson La Follette's 
department of justice.
  In 1978, Bronson married the love of his life, Barbara. He was also 
blessed with a son, a daughter, two grandchildren, and two great-
randchildren.
  In 1987, Bronson retired from public service and joined a prominent 
law firm where he continued to advocate for criminal justice reform and 
government transparency.
  Bronson was also a passionate advocate for children. He founded the 
Dane County Project for the Prevention of Child Abuse and became the 
chairman of the National Campaign for Missing and Exploited Children.
  No tribute to Bronson La Follette would be complete without a nod to 
his wonderful sense of humor. Together with his friend, State treasurer 
Charles Smith, he campaigned in a camper, bringing their unique blend 
of politics and fun to communities throughout the State. He cherished 
his reputation as a talented washboard player and percussionist. His 
most remembered antics involved his Irish Setter ``Cutter.'' When 
Bronson was cited with allowing Cutter to run at large in Maple Bluff, 
he hired Madison attorney and prankster Edward Ben Elson to defend the 
dog. Elson demanded that the dog be tried by a jury of his peers: 12 
Irish Setters. In his next campaign, Bronson had buttons featuring 
Cutter with the slogan ``Bronson dog gone it.''
  A colorful spectrum of words is necessary to capture the essence of 
Bronson La Follette, some of which may seem contradictory. Those words 
include progressive, irreverent, bipartisan, entertaining, passionate, 
fair, outspoken, just, funny, service-minded, champion, fun-loving, 
defender, activist, committed, blunt, values-driven, but what I will 
remember most about Bronson is how vigorously he embraced his 
personality, how sweetly he loved his family, and how passionately he 
fought for justice. Wisconsin owes a debt of gratitude to this 
extraordinary man who brought equality and justice to so many.

                          ____________________



