

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 24 (Wednesday, February 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 24 (Wednesday, February 7, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H973-H974]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself and Mr. Roskam):
       H.R. 4957. A bill to provide better care and outcomes for 
     Americans living with Alzheimer's disease and related 
     dementias and their caregivers while accelerating progress 
     toward prevention strategies, disease modifying treatments, 
     and, ultimately, a cure; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself and Ms. Esty of Connecticut):
       H.R. 4958. A bill to increase, effective as of December 1, 
     2018, the rates of compensation for veterans with service-
     connected disabilities and the rates of dependency and 
     indemnity compensation for the survivors of certain disabled 
     veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BUDD:
       H.R. 4959. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to ensure that the temporary refundable portion of the 
     child tax credit is not less than the payroll taxes paid by 
     the taxpayer; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER (for herself, Mr. Clay, Mrs. Wagner, 
             Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Graves of Missouri, 
             Mr. Long, and Mr. Smith of Missouri):
       H.R. 4960. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 511 East Walnut Street in 
     Columbia, Missouri, as the ``Spc. Sterling William Wyatt Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Serrano, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Kilmer, 
             Ms. Barragan, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Takano, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Price 
             of North Carolina, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Veasey, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Ben Ray 
             Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Cole, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Ms. Lee, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Welch, Mr. Cooper, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mrs. Lowey, Mrs. Bustos, 
             Ms. Moore, Mr. Soto, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Clay, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Foster, 
             Mr. O'Halleran, Mrs. Watson Coleman,

[[Page H974]]

             Mr. Courtney, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. Visclosky, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Vela, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Griffith, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Costa, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Sires, Mr. Jones, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Crist, Ms. Bordallo, Mrs. Demings, and Ms. 
             Slaughter):
       H.R. 4961. A bill to provide for the compensation of 
     Federal employees furloughed during a Government shutdown; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Westerman, 
             Mr. Abraham, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             Goodlatte, Mr. Palazzo, and Mr. Bishop of Georgia):
       H.R. 4962. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a special rule for certain casualty losses of 
     uncut timber; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Messer, Mr. Upton, 
             Mr. Reichert, Mr. Perry, and Mr. Clay):
       H.R. 4963. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for assistance for victims of child pornography, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. HANABUSA (for herself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 4965. A bill to establish best practices for State, 
     tribal, and local governments participating in the Integrated 
     Public Alert and Warning System, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Homeland Security, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
       H.R. 4966. A bill to make continuing appropriations for pay 
     for certain training for members of the National Guard and of 
     the reserve components of the Armed Forces in the event of a 
     shutdown of the Federal Government, to prohibit the furlough 
     of such members during such a shutdown, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico):
       H.R. 4967. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 to 
     improve nutrition in tribal areas, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself and Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico):
       H.R. 4968. A bill to permanently reauthorize the Rio Puerco 
     Management Committee and the Rio Puerco Watershed Management 
     Program; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. McCAUL:
       H.R. 4969. A bill to improve the design and construction of 
     diplomatic posts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 4970. A bill to require the creation and maintenance 
     of a MadeInAmerica.gov website; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for himself and Mr. 
             MacArthur):
       H.R. 4971. A bill to amend the Securities Act of 1933 to 
     exempt from registration with the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission certain accredited investor transactions within 
     transparent secondary markets, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 4972. A bill to amend the title VII of the Civil 
     Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act 
     of 1967, the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, the Americans 
     with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Rehabilitation Act of 
     1973, and the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 
     2008 to require that individuals who perform work for 
     employers as independent contractors be treated as employees; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for himself and Mr. 
             Loebsack):
       H.R. 4973. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to 
     develop and implement a plan to provide chiropractic health 
     care services and benefits for certain new beneficiaries as 
     part of the TRICARE program; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. SMUCKER:
       H.R. 4974. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to render overstaying a visa a criminal offense, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Engel, and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 4975. A bill to amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to 
     provide for consultation with State, tribal, and local 
     governments, the consideration of State, tribal, and local 
     concerns, and the approval of post-shutdown decommissioning 
     activities reports by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4976. A bill to establish a grant program to support 
     landscape-scale restoration and management, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H. Res. 728. A resolution reaffirming United States support 
     for Israel and condemning the United Nations Human Rights 
     Council for certain wasteful and abusive actions; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. VALADAO:
       H. Res. 729. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that countries that are party to the Hague 
     Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child 
     Abduction should work to resolve international parental child 
     abduction cases, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Blum, 
             Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. 
             Comer, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, 
             Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Heck, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. King of 
             Iowa, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mrs. Lawrence, 
             Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mrs. Love, Mr. Luetkemeyer, 
             Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. McNerney, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Simpson, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Mr. Soto, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Upton, 
             Mr. Veasey, Mr. Westerman, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H. Res. 730. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Career and Technical Education Month; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Bass, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             Lawson of Florida, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Engel, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Crist, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Adams, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. McEachin, Mr. McGovern, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia, Ms. Speier, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Mr. Capuano):
       H. Res. 731. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself and 
             Mr. Bilirakis):
       H. Res. 732. A resolution urging Turkey to respect the 
     rights and religious freedoms of the Ecumenical Patriarchate; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. Norton, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. Peters, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Cohen, Mr. McGovern, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, Ms. Bordallo, and Mr. Buchanan):
       H. Res. 733. A resolution expressing support for health and 
     wellness coaches and ``National Health and Wellness Coach 
     Recognition Week''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



