

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1287-S1288]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly), the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer), 
the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Leahy), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine), the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and 
the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and accelerate development and 
availability, of promising childhood cancer treatments, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 378

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 378, a bill to amend titles 
5 and 28, United States Code, to require the maintenance of databases 
on awards of fees and other expenses to prevailing parties in certain 
administrative proceedings and court cases to which the United States 
is a party, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 503

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 503, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Agriculture to make publicly available certain 
regulatory records relating to the administration of the Animal Welfare 
Act and the Horse Protection Act, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to provide for the use of an alternative depreciation system for 
taxpayers violating rules under the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse 
Protection Act, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 898

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 898, a bill to provide 
incentives to physicians to practice in rural and medically underserved 
communities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1091, a bill to establish a Federal Task Force to 
Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1158, a bill to help 
prevent acts of genocide and other atrocity crimes, which threaten 
national and international security, by enhancing United States 
Government capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises.


                                S. 2009

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2009, a bill to require a 
background check for every firearm sale.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner), the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. 
Graham) were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current 
law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2236, a bill to 
require covered discrimination and covered harassment awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered discrimination and covered harassment complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2289

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2289, a bill to 
create an Office of Cybersecurity at the Federal Trade Commission for 
supervision of data security at consumer reporting agencies, to require 
the promulgation of regulations establishing standards for effective 
cybersecurity at consumer reporting agencies, to impose penalties on 
credit reporting agencies for cybersecurity breaches that put sensitive 
consumer data at risk, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2324

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2324, a bill to amend the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 to change certain requirements relating 
to the capital structure of business development companies, to direct 
the Securities and Exchange Commission to revise certain rules relating 
to business development companies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2334

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2334, a bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
provide clarity with respect to, and to modernize, the licensing system 
for musical works under section 115 of that title, to ensure fairness 
in the establishment of certain rates and fees under sections 114 and 
115 of that title, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2343

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2343, a bill to require the Federal Communications 
Commission to establish a task force for meeting the connectivity and 
technology needs of precision agriculture in the United States.


                                S. 2393

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2393, a bill to 
amend title 17, United States Code, to provide Federal protection to 
the digital audio transmission of a sound recording fixed before 
February 15, 1972, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2398

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2398, a bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
provide that

[[Page S1288]]

activities relating to the training and readiness of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces during a lapse in appropriations shall 
constitute voluntary services that may be accepted by the United 
States.


                                S. 2403

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2403, a bill to modify a 
provision relating to adjustments of certain State apportionments for 
Federal highway programs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2421, a bill to amend the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to 
provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and penalties for 
releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at farms.


                                S. 2430

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2430, a bill to 
provide a permanent appropriation of funds for the payment of death 
gratuities and related benefits for survivors of deceased members of 
the uniformed services in event of any period of lapsed appropriations.


                                S. 2455

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2455, a bill to 
encourage United States-Ukraine cybersecurity cooperation and require a 
report regarding such cooperation, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2456

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2456, a bill to reauthorize and expand the 
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016.


                              S.J. RES. 46

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 46, a joint resolution proposing an amendment 
to the Constitution of the United States authorizing the Congress to 
prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States.


                              S. RES. 404

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 404, a 
resolution recognizing the coordinated struggle of workers on the 50th 
anniversary of the 1968 Memphis sanitation workers strike to voice 
their grievances and reach a collective agreement for rights in the 
workplace.


                              S. RES. 407

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 407, a 
resolution recognizing the critical work of human rights defenders in 
promoting human rights, the rule of law, democracy, and good 
governance.

                          ____________________



