

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1340-H1341]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 5132. A bill to impose additional sanctions with 
     respect to Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Financial Services, Oversight 
     and Government Reform, the Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
       H.R. 5133. A bill to reauthorize the Federal Land 
     Transaction Facilitation Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BACON (for himself and Mr. Carbajal):
       H.R. 5134. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     combat straw purchases of firearms; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. GRANGER (for herself, Mr. Diaz-Balart, and Mr. 
             Flores):
       H.R. 5135. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to provide for additional grants for 
     school security, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McNERNEY:
       H.R. 5136. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to provide grants to eligible local 
     educational agencies to encourage female students to pursue 
     studies and careers in science, mathematics, engineering, and 
     technology; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Visclosky, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Sanchez, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gomez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             Mr. Soto, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. 
             Norcross, Mr. McEachin, and Mrs. Lawrence):
       H.R. 5137. A bill to standardize and extend certain Buy 
     America provisions; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Kind, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 5138. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to improve access to health care through modernized 
     health savings accounts; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CHABOT:
       H.R. 5139. A bill to reauthorize the grant program for 
     school security in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
     Act of 1968; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MULLIN (for himself and Mr. Gianforte):
       H.R. 5140. A bill to make improvements to the Account For 
     the State Response to the Opioid Abuse Crisis to improve 
     tribal health; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself and Mr. Deutch):
       H.R. 5141. A bill to make improvements to certain defense 
     and security assistance provisions and to authorize 
     assistance for Israel, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Armed Services, and Science, Space, and 
     Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. AMASH (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. McClintock, 
             Mr. McKinley, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Massie, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Polis, Mr. Jones, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Messer, Ms. Norton, Mr. Brat, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Norman, 
             and Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 5142. A bill to amend chapter 2 of title 1, United 
     States Code, to establish the style for amending laws; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. AMASH (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. McClintock, 
             Mr. McKinley, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Massie, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Polis, Mr. Jones, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Messer, Ms. Norton, Mr. Brat, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Norman, 
             and Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 5143. A bill to require all bills, resolutions, and 
     other documents of Congress to be created, transmitted, and 
     published in searchable electronic formats, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUM (for himself and Mr. Schneider):
       H.R. 5144. A bill to require the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to report on compliance of contracting agencies 
     with subcontracting plans and subcontracting goals under the 
     Small Business Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Small Business.
           By Ms. DeLAURO:
       H.R. 5145. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to eliminate tax preferences for foreign profits by 
     repealing the reduced rate of tax on foreign-derived 
     intangible income and global intangible low-taxed income; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself, Mr. MacArthur, 
             Mr. Himes, and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 5146. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to establish the American 
     Technical Training Grant Program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. GABBARD:
       H.R. 5147. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to require voting systems used in elections for Federal 
     office to produce a voter-verified paper ballot of each vote 
     cast on the system, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on House Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
     the Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE:
       H.R. 5148. A bill to release certain wilderness study areas 
     in the State of Montana; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE:
       H.R. 5149. A bill to provide that certain wilderness study 
     areas in Montana have been adequately studied for wilderness 
     designation; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LEVIN:
       H.R. 5150. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to require drug manufacturers to pay a Medicare 
     part B rebate for certain drugs if the price of such drugs 
     increases faster than inflation; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico:
       H.R. 5151. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize a grant program improving treatment for pregnant

[[Page H1341]]

     and postpartum women; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H.R. 5152. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a grant program for eligible nonprofit 
     organizations to carry out positive psychology reconditioning 
     programs for veterans; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself and Mr. Mooney of West 
             Virginia):
       H.R. 5153. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a credit against tax for charitable donations 
     to nonprofit organizations providing workforce training and 
     education scholarships to qualified elementary and secondary 
     students; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Jones, Ms. 
             Foxx, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Walker, Mr. 
             Pittenger, Mr. Holding, and Mr. Hudson):
       H. Res. 759. A resolution expressing the condolences of the 
     House of Representatives on the death of the Reverend Billy 
     Graham; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Gonzalez of 
             Texas, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Soto, Ms. Norton, and Mrs. 
             Beatty):
       H. Res. 760. A resolution supporting the designation of 
     March 2018 as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Ms. Adams, 
             Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Correa, Mr. Costa, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Espaillat, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Johnson 
             of Georgia, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lynch, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Peters, Mr. Pocan, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Polis, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Crist, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Clay, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. Payne, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Miss Gonzalez-Colon 
             of Puerto Rico, Mr. Hurd, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Connolly, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Meeks, Mr. Serrano, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, and Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi):
       H. Res. 761. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Women's History Month; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



