

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1322-H1328]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              THE LIFE AND LEGACY OF REVEREND BILLY GRAHAM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Fitzpatrick). Under the Speaker's 
announced policy of January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
Hultgren) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader.


                             GENERAL LEAVE

  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material on the topic of my Special 
Order.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Illinois?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, tonight, the U.S. House is joining 
together to begin honoring a man known worldwide but who embodied the 
humility of who Christ called the poor in spirit, Reverend Billy 
Graham.
  Tomorrow, Reverend Billy Graham will be just the fourth person in the 
history of this great country to be laid in honor in the United States 
Capitol. But tonight, we want to briefly try to describe the life of 
this man, his ministry, his impact on the Nation and on the world, the 
impact he has had on all of our lives.
  I am so grateful for the outpouring of support from my many 
colleagues who are wanting to join tonight to remember and to celebrate 
the amazing life of Billy Graham. I want to get to my colleagues 
immediately, and then hopefully have a couple minutes to wrap up at the 
end of this hour.
  I want to first yield to my good friend, the gentleman from Alabama 
(Mr. Aderholt) to share with us.
  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from Illinois 
(Mr. Hultgren) for arranging this opportunity for us to remember the 
life and legacy of Dr. Billy Graham, although I have to say it is not 
an easy task to find words that sum up his life, not because Billy 
Graham is not worthy, but because words and a few sentences seem 
incapable of describing a life that had such a large impact on, 
literally, the entire world.
  I had the great opportunity to meet Dr. Graham just a few feet from 
here several years ago at one of the many Presidential inaugurations he 
attended.

                              {time}  1830

  While I only had that chance to meet him one time, Billy Graham was 
one of those people whom you felt like you knew. His honesty and his 
openness in preaching the gospel made him seem like a close, personal 
friend.
  I have fond memories growing up in my hometown of Haleyville, 
Alabama, of being at my grandparents' home, and if a Billy Graham 
Crusade was being televised, you can rest assured that we were watching 
it around their television, regardless of what was on the other 
networks.
  He was very clear in how he presented the gospel, that whosoever 
believeth in the son would have eternal life.
  He will be greatly missed by a world that desperately needs more 
people like Billy Graham, but we can take great comfort in knowing that 
he has now made it home with his Maker.
  Author James Allan Francis, in writing about the impact of Jesus 
Christ on the world, wrote this: ``All the armies that ever marched, 
all the navies that were ever built; all the parliaments that ever sat 
and all the kings that ever reigned, put together, have not affected 
the life of man upon this Earth as powerfully as has that one solitary 
life.''
  That one solitary life, of course, is of Jesus Christ, who brought 
salvation to the world through faith in Him and in Him alone.
  While no one could ever come close to having an impact on the world 
like Christ did, I believe the late Billy Graham was one of those great 
messengers, probably the best that we have seen any time in recent 
history, and he will long be remembered for the message that he gave 
about a personal salvation in Jesus Christ.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Jody B. Hice).
  Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, what an honor it is to 
likewise stand.
  I remember the first live crusade I ever went to where Billy Graham 
was there in Atlanta in the early 1970s. As a young pastor and as a 
pastor for almost 20 years, I likewise had the opportunity to meet him. 
As a young pastor, he signed a Bible for me, which today still remains 
a treasure.
  But what we don't need to forget is the message that he gave us. It 
is the message of Scripture. It is the message of God. It is a message 
that talks about all of us and our condition, that we are sinful, that 
we are separated from God, that we have committed things that separate 
us eternally unless they are dealt with.
  That gospel message from the Scripture that Billy Graham so 
eloquently shared was that God loves us, and He gave His son to die in 
our stead.
  I noticed the other day we are told that archeologists may have found 
the signature of the Old Testament prophet Isaiah. When I thought of 
that, I actually thought of Billy Graham and how he would have taken 
that Isaiah passage in chapter 53 and made a gospel message from the 
Old Testament prophet, where he said in chapter 53 that all of us, like 
sheep, have gone astray, that every one has gone his own way. Yet God 
has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
  Here we are, and here is our sin. Here comes Christ without sin, and 
God laid on Him the iniquity of us all.
  As much as we remember Billy Graham these days, let us never forget 
the importance of his message and never forget the message.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues and I urge America to hear the 
gospel message and to respond in faith to the love and the grace of God 
through Jesus Christ that Billy Graham so powerfully presented to all 
of us.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. Pittenger).
  Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Hultgren for assembling this 
great group together. We treasure this opportunity to honor Dr. Billy 
Graham. Each of us has a special memory of Billy Graham.
  I can recall having graduated from college, my first job was with 
Campus Crusade for Christ. I lived in Dallas, Texas, to prepare for a 
big meeting, a convocation that brought 84,000 young people. I was 
asked in 1971 if I would like to caddy for Billy Graham. He was playing 
in the Byron Nelson Golf Classic with Arnold Palmer, Bob Hope, and 
Byron Nelson. I can assure you we chased golf balls all over the golf 
course. It was a great occasion.
  But what I saw as a young believer in Christ--I had come to Christ in 
my senior year in college--I saw a man who looked you in the eye. He 
didn't look at his watch. He cared about people. Billy Graham didn't 
walk over people to reach the world. He understood the

[[Page H1323]]

importance of every person before God. I think that is why his ministry 
and his mission was so outstanding with Presidents, kings, or cab 
drivers, whoever it might be, the millions of people who came to Christ 
because of him.
  On this meeting that we planned in Dallas, 250,000 people came to 
downtown Dallas. They heard Billy Graham and Johnny Cash. It was a 
great assembly. But through my years, the next decade, working for Dr. 
Bright with Campus Crusade, I had the occasion to be around Dr. Graham 
on many occasions.
  On one such occasion, I picked him up at the airport in 1975 here in 
Washington and was taking him back to the hotel. He said to Dr. Bright: 
the next challenge we have in the world today is terrorism. He said 
that this group who doesn't honor God and they don't honor Christ are 
going to be the force we deal with.
  How remarkable that it was Billy Graham who helped heal our Nation 
after 9/11 as he spoke to that National Cathedral to bring the message 
of hope in God.
  Yes, I went with Billy to his crusades in Cleveland, Dallas, and 
Charlotte. In fact, the first time he ever brought together young 
people, he had a Friday night big crusade for young people. They came 
out by the tens of thousands. Michael W. Smith played, Jars of Clay, 
and D.C. Talk.
  Billy could reach anybody because he was real and he was personable. 
They understood him. His message was clear--so simple--that God loves 
us, He has a plan for our life, and Jesus Christ is the means to that 
plan. He died on the cross for our sin, that we could receive Christ, 
know Him, and know eternal life.

  He gave that message all over the world. I have met people in 
Romania, Czech Republic, and the former Soviet Union--now Russia--all 
over the world who met Christ because Billy Graham came, and he took 
the gospel to them.
  Probably in my funniest moment to have a conversation with him was 
with Franklin, his son. Now, Franklin will charge hell with a water 
gun. Franklin will go anywhere. He was headed to Moscow. I was with him 
on a little plane, it was a twin engine Mitsubishi. We stopped in 
Burlington, Vermont, and then we stopped over in Nova Scotia to stay 
overnight at a little $6 motel. The phone rang while we were checking 
in. The man said: Yes, he is here, and he gave the phone across the 
counter to Franklin.
  Franklin said: Hello? Yes, Daddy. Yes, sir, I am headed to Moscow. 
Yes, sir. I have got another pilot. Yes, sir.  Robert Pittenger. He is 
going with me.
  At that point, his father, said:  Robert Pittenger? I thought he had 
more sense than that.
  That was Billy. He knew his son, and he loved his son. But Franklin 
will take his gospel just like his father, just like every single 
person in that family.
  Probably the greatest legacy to Billy Graham is the testimony in all 
of our lives through his own children who followed him into the 
ministry.
  So I commend our Nation for honoring him in the way that we are. He 
will lay and he will be a part of this great assembly, this great 
Capitol, forever as a statue. I thank Mr. Hultgren for bringing us 
together, and I thank the Lord for sending His messenger, Billy Graham.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from Indiana 
(Mrs. Walorski).
  Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the incredible 
life of a great man. The Reverend Billy Graham spent his life serving 
God and proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ.
  Many who heard him share the Good Word considered him to be America's 
pastor. But throughout his life, he was always a humble and faithful 
servant.
  Decades ago, I had the opportunity to attend a Billy Graham Crusade 
at Notre Dame with my family. I will never forget seeing so many people 
having the opportunity to hear the message that God loves you--a very 
simple message. No matter who you are, no matter your background, Billy 
would declare: God loves you.
  Billy Graham brought this message of compassion, hope, and the power 
of God's grace to millions of people from all walks of life. He also 
brought it to the leaders of the free world as a friend and counselor 
to the Presidents of both parties.
  Tomorrow he will lie in honor in the Capitol rotunda. It is fitting 
to honor him as we honor our Nation's leaders, not just because they 
changed history, but because he changed our hearts.
  His greatest legacy is the people he helped to be closer to the Lord.
  Mr. Speaker, Billy Graham is home now. We give thanks to God that He 
raised up such a humble man with a servant's heart, and we pray that 
his powerful message will live on.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Virginia 
(Mr. Garrett).
  Mr. GARRETT. Mr. Speaker, it is an incredible honor to stand today in 
honor of the legacy of the Reverend Billy Graham.
  The population of the United States when Reverend Graham was born was 
103 million. Over the course of his life, Reverend Graham spoke to more 
than twice as many people who existed in the country the day he was 
born in person about the greatest gift that one can ever be given, and 
that is the gift of eternal life and salvation by a Creator so 
benevolent as to look the other way on the undeniable sins of each of 
us.
  So as I look to try to leave an impact on the world, I understand 
that people far greater than me have left far greater an impact than I 
could ever leave. I want to use Reverend Graham's words in closing to 
honor Reverend Graham not for who he was, but for his commitment to his 
Savior Jesus Christ.
  Reverend Graham said: When wealth is lost, nothing is lost. When 
health is lost, something is lost. And when character is lost, all is 
lost.
  Reverend Graham said: The greatest legacy one can pass on to one's 
children and grandchildren is not money or material things accumulated 
in one's life, but a legacy of character and faith.
  I think most appropriately, in closing, he said: I look forward to 
death with great anticipation to meeting God face to face.
  Finally, he said: I haven't written my own epitaph. I am not sure I 
should. Whatever it is, I hope it will be simple and it will point 
people not to me, but to the God that I served.
  I thank Billy Graham, and I pray God would send us more. Amen.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from American 
Samoa (Mrs. Radewagen).
  Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Mr. Speaker, many decades ago, a missionary named 
John Williams made the long and difficult journey in the 1800s to bring 
Christianity to the people of the Pacific islands, including American 
Samoa.
  He and the others in his footsteps in those early years probably 
surpassed their fondest hopes. Today, faith and church provide a strong 
foundation to a very large percentage of our population. I think he and 
Billy Graham would have understood each other very well, though their 
ministries are separated by more than a century.
  Billy Graham's influence went around the world rapidly and 
powerfully, and seemed divinely timed to coincide with the rise of the 
communications and travel of the 20th century.
  As he lies in honor this week at the U.S. Capitol, it is a new 
opportunity for a younger generation to learn more of his exceptional 
life and hear his message once more--that God loves each of us, and 
when times seem troubled around us, there is someone greater to depend 
on.
  As Scripture says: ``How shall they hear without a preacher?''
  Billy Graham answered that call.
  He described himself simply: a preacher of the gospel of Jesus 
Christ. That life's purpose defined him, and what a life it was.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Billy Graham.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. Bost).
  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend for putting this on. 
Let me say that as many of the people who have spoken here tonight have 
talked about how Billy Graham spread the gospel of Jesus Christ, at a 
young age, Billy Graham, if you read his history, took a walk through 
the woods and devoted his life to Christ.
  He understood what was written in Matthew 22 when Christ was asked, 
Which is the greatest commandment? He said that the greatest 
commandment is to love the Lord your God with

[[Page H1324]]

all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. The 
second is like unto it, to love your neighbor as yourself.
  He understood those commandments. But most of all, he understood the 
commission that was given at the end of Matthew: Go therefore and make 
disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and 
of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
  Billy Graham understood this. He understood it, and he was also very, 
very humble. I want to take, if I can, just a moment to go over 
something that was written by the author Max Lucado about a meeting 
that Michael W. Smith and his pastor had. I will just read it:
  ``A few hours before the event,'' where Michael W. Smith and Max 
Lucado were going to go on stage together, ``Michael and I met to go 
over the weekend's schedule. But Michael was so moved by what he had 
just experienced, he could hardly discuss the retreat. He had just met 
with Billy Graham for the purpose of planning Reverend Graham's 
funeral. The famous evangelist was, at the time, 94 years old. He was 
confined to a wheelchair, on oxygen. His mind was sharp and spirits 
were high. But his body was seeing its final days. So he called 
Michael. And he called for his pastor. He wanted to discuss his 
funeral. He told them that he had a request.''
  They both said: Of course, anything. What is it?
  He said: It is to do with the funeral.
  They said: Yes?
  He said: Would you not mention my name?
  They said: What?
  He said: Could you not mention my name? Just mention the name of 
Jesus.
  Mr. Speaker, you see, Billy Graham has preached to over 1 billion 
people. He has filled stadiums on every continent.

                              {time}  1845

  He has advised every President of the last half century. He has 
consistently been the top of every ``most admired'' list, yet he wants 
to be anonymous at his funeral and only call on Jesus' name.
  1 Peter 55 said:

       God resists the crowd, but gives grace to the humble.

  For a man like this to hold and be humbled when the world knew him.
  John 15:8 says:

       By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit 
     and so prove to be my disciples.

  There is no question whose disciple Billy Graham was.
  On February 21, I don't doubt that he heard these words: ``Well done, 
my good and faithful servant.''
  We just pray that God sends us more like him.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. Budd).
  Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, it is not every day that I get to speak on 
behalf of someone who has changed the lives of millions of people 
across the globe, but today, I do.
  Billy Graham, who passed away last week, was known as America's 
pastor, and rightly so.
  When I was spending time this week in the district, someone who is a 
baseball fan came up to me and said: Do you know who's got the most 
saves in Yankee Stadium?
  I said: ``Sorry, I don't know my baseball history that well.''
  He said: It was Billy Graham, in 1957.
  I had to laugh to think that it was truly God who did the saving.
  But let's think for a minute about Billy Graham. He was born in 1918 
on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina, just south of my 
district. His crusades in the 1950s attracted thousands of people and 
shaped the beliefs of a generation by introducing many to the 
evangelical faith.
  In July of 1957, Graham invited Martin Luther, King., Jr., to preach 
in front of his audience at Madison Square Garden on the issue of 
racial justice. This was just months after the Montgomery Bus Boycott.
  Graham was a White pastor from North Carolina, and King was an 
African American pastor from Alabama. But both of them knew that the 
Lord doesn't see skin color and that the love of Christ could heal any 
racial division. Mr. Speaker, in today's polarized political culture, 
we could learn a thing or two from their friendship.
  Throughout his life, he met with 12 Presidents, dating back to Harry 
Truman. President Eisenhower called Graham ``one of the best 
ambassadors our country has,'' and John F. Kennedy brought Graham in 
before his inauguration to express his worry over the moral and 
spiritual condition of the Nation.
  Aside from his role in the civil rights movement and vocal opposition 
to communism, he uplifted the souls of millions of Americans. By 
introducing them to the love of Christ, Graham gave hope to the 
hopeless and love to those who were in need.
  Mr. Speaker, while our economy now is growing and wages are rising, 
Americans have still become increasingly more isolated, more lonely, 
and more depressed. This social crisis needs to be addressed but can't 
be solved by a bill that we pass in Congress or an executive action by 
any President.
  We have gotten to a point in our country where too many people put 
their hope in elected officials. These people will most certainly be 
let down, because elected officials, like everyone else, are fallen, 
imperfect, sinful people.
  Graham knew this, and he knew that the only person who would not let 
us down is Christ himself, and that we should trust in him for the 
forgiveness of our sins and have everlasting life. This is now the life 
Billy Graham will enjoy forever.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Gohmert).
  Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend for putting this 
together.
  The loss of Billy Graham to this country, to this world, is more 
profound than any lips can ever express.
  As Ted mentioned, he was born in 1918, and married Ruth in 1943. What 
a dynamic couple they were. How devoted they were to each other. They 
had five children. I have come to know and dearly love Anne. I have met 
and come to know Franklin to a lesser extent.
  But he knew, he believed, he preached that you don't go to Heaven by 
being a grandchild of someone. You have to have that personal 
relationship with the Lord as an individual child of God. It is not 
something you can inherit.
  He has been called home.
  He spent his life trying to persuade people that he loved to accept 
Jesus with the words that Jesus uttered:

       I am the way, the truth, the light. No one gets to the 
     Father, but by me.

  He believed with all his heart that, unless someone professed Jesus 
Christ as Savior, they had no chance of getting to Heaven.
  We know from Jesus that greater love hath no one than a man that lay 
down his life for his friends. We have paid tribute to people who have 
laid down their life in one great moment of saving others. We have 
heard of those type of heroic actions at the school in Parkland in 
trying to save others.
  Yet, this man, for 99 years, or at least after he accepted Christ, 
laid down his life day after day after day for others, trying to help 
them come to a personal relationship with Jesus so that he could share 
eternity with Him in Heaven. That is his belief. That is my belief.
  Yet, several years ago, we passed what is called a hate crimes bill. 
I said at some point it would be used to prosecute a preacher for 
simply reading Scripture from the Bible, so I can't help but wonder if 
he has been called home so he can never be charged with a hate crime.
  We live in a time when things have gotten so perverse that there are 
actually people who say that these evangelical Christians are so 
hateful, so mean, they actually believe that if you don't think exactly 
like they do, you go to hell.

  Well, that is a perversion of the one religion that is 100 percent 
based on love. God so loved the world, He sent His son. His son so 
loved the world, He laid down His life for others.
  Billy Graham has laid down his life. He has put a marker down. In his 
memory, we can give no greater memorial than that we persevere and we 
perpetuate that love in bringing others to eternal life with us.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. Rouzer).
  Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to pay tribute today to the 
late Reverend Billy Graham, a very cherished Christian leader and 
exemplary North Carolinian.

[[Page H1325]]

  Born on a dairy farm almost 100 years ago in Charlotte, North 
Carolina, Billy Graham grew up learning the value of hard work, 
personal commitment, and developed an unwavering commitment to our Lord 
and Savior, Jesus Christ.
  After being ordained and graduated from Wheaton College, Billy 
married the love of his life and fellow student, Ruth McCue Bell. 
Shortly after, he began preaching throughout the United States and 
Europe, emerging as a rising young evangelist.
  By 1949, at the young age of 31, Billy was launched into 
international prominence following his Los Angeles crusade. Originally 
scheduled for just 3 weeks, the crusade in Los Angeles had to be 
extended to more than 8 weeks, due to the overwhelming interest and 
overflow crowds.
  During his lifetime, Reverend Graham preached all over the world, 
from remote villages in Africa to the Middle East to the former 
Communist bloc. I find this feat quite notable, considering the 
hostility that communists and tyrants of all stripes have for 
Christianity and their hatred for the spread of the Gospel.
  Without question, Billy Graham was preaching in hostile territory; 
and without question, God protected him. It is said that his ministry 
reached an estimated 215 million people in more than 185 countries, and 
probably many more than that. After hearing the messages and teachings 
of the Holy Scriptures, many of those millions accepted Christ as their 
Lord and Savior.
  There is no doubt that Billy Graham was called by God to share His 
Word, and he did so with wisdom and humility. In fact, I believe he 
heeded that call as well, if not better, than anyone else ever has.
  His legacy and influence in the world will continue to be felt for 
generations to come. If there has ever been a good and faithful 
servant, it is most certainly Billy Graham.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. 
Palmer).
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my good friend, Mr. 
Hultgren, for arranging this opportunity to honor Billy Graham.
  Mr. Speaker, tomorrow will we witness something that we have never 
seen before: the laying in honor of the body of an American who was not 
a government official, didn't lead a political movement, and wasn't a 
war hero or social movement hero.
  The Nation will mourn a man who was single-minded in his devotion to 
one thing, whose life and vocation centered on one thing and one thing 
only: proclaiming the saving grace of God through Jesus Christ.
  I hope we pay close attention to this. We will most likely never see 
it again.
  In Mark, Jesus tells his disciples to ``go into all the world, and 
preach the Gospel to every creature.'' Few people followed this 
instruction more faithfully than the Reverend Billy Graham and with as 
much success and impact.
  Billy Graham has been called America's Preacher. But the fact of the 
matter is that he was, for many decades, the most recognized and 
respected evangelical in the world.
  Reverend Graham preached the Gospel to more than 200 million people 
during his more than 400 crusades and rallies in more than 185 
countries and territories. The impact of those reached through TV, 
radio, video, and the internet is unquantifiable.
  Reverend Graham did this sacrificially, giving up opportunities for 
other, much more lucrative opportunities that most people would have 
jumped at were they given the opportunity. Moreover, Reverend Graham 
estimated that he was gone from home for about 60 percent of his 
children's adolescence.
  Despite being a pseudo-single mom, his wife, Ruth, understood the 
importance of the sacrifice. She once said: ``I'd rather have a little 
of Bill than a lot of any other man.''
  At a time when Christians are so often shunned and ridiculed, 
particularly those who have major followings, Billy Graham was almost 
universally regarded as a steady and well-respected voice. He appeared 
on Gallup's list of most admired men in America 60 times since 1955. 
That is every year since the research firm began asking the question.
  He counseled and covered in prayer every President, from Truman to 
Trump. Former President Clinton said: ``When he prays with you in the 
Oval Office or upstairs in the White House, you feel he's praying for 
you, not the President.''
  That is the magnitude of this man: no matter how big or small you 
were, he cared about you, not your position. Titles and wealth and 
social status didn't matter to Reverend Graham. The only position of a 
person that mattered to him was their eternal position before God. Race 
did not matter either.
  Reverend Graham was courageous. When other church leaders remained 
silent, he was an outspoken advocate for racial equality, consistently 
stating: ``Christ belongs to all people.''
  In 1951, he called for the Southern Baptist Convention to accept 
Black students at their colleges. At a 1953 crusade in Tennessee, he 
personally took down ropes segregating the audience. In 1957, during 
his crusade in New York, he invited Martin Luther King, Jr., to open 
one night with a prayer. Despite his actions, he later said he wished 
he would have done more to help Dr. King.
  In 1964, just months after the bombing at the 16th Street Baptist 
Church, Reverend Graham brought his crusade to Birmingham, Alabama. 
Before he agreed to come, Reverend Graham insisted that the audience be 
integrated. Over 30,000 people attended, making it, at the time, the 
largest integrated audience in the history of Birmingham.
  The next year, he spoke to an integrated audience in Tuscaloosa, 
Alabama, with University of Alabama President Frank Rose and head 
football coach Paul ``Bear'' Bryant with him on the stage.
  Mr. Speaker, I don't believe there is or will be anyone else in our 
lifetime who so clearly and effectively called people out of spiritual 
darkness into the light than Billy Graham.

                              {time}  1900

  Untold millions were exposed to the saving message of the Gospel 
through his ministry. I mourn the void of moral and spiritual authority 
that, with his death, has been left in this world, but I rejoice in 
knowing that he is finally at home and at rest with God.
  As it is written about David in Acts 13:36, so it can be said of 
Billy Graham. He served God's purpose for his generation.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I am next honored to yield to the 
gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Smith).
  Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate this opportunity to 
share and reflect, just briefly, on Reverend Billy Graham. What a 
tremendous legacy he leaves in so many forms, and I think of how his 
humility has had such an impact on so many.
  I was one of the thousands in a stadium at a crusade in California 
back, I believe, in 1985, and to personally witness the impact that 
that meeting had was a great opportunity. But I also realized how one 
person can really impact the world and how his efforts have led to 
humanitarian efforts, whether it is his family members or others, 
really stepping out and ministering to others all around the world.
  So I am very grateful to honor Reverend Billy Graham for certainly 
his stewardship of religious freedom. I hope that we can all reflect on 
our country and religious freedom and how important it is and hopefully 
follow in the footsteps of someone who, I think, as the list of most 
admired Americans would reflect, with Reverend Graham being on that 
list for 60 years--that someone like that can have such a great impact. 
So I appreciate this opportunity.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I am next honored to yield to the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Loudermilk).
  Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Representative 
Hultgren, for taking this time to do something that is so worthy.
  You know, we live in a city where we have vast monuments erected for 
people who have left an impact on this Nation or on the world. When you 
walk the Halls of this grand and beautiful Capitol, there are statues 
of those who have made significant marks and changes to this Nation.
  As I stand here today, I think of the gentleman who is going to lay 
in honor in the rotunda tomorrow, how he left such an impact on the 
world. He is probably the greatest impact on this

[[Page H1326]]

Nation and this world of modern times. The monument to him is in the 
hearts of literally billions of people who he touched with one simple 
message: God loves you.
  That was as simple as Billy Graham would speak to the hearts of 
millions of Americans that God loves you and he cares about you 
individually as a person. That resonated so strong that it is estimated 
that--and this was in 2008--that through his ministries and his radio 
and television and his crusades, he reached over 2.2 billion people 
with a simple message that God loves you, and it is a message of truth.
  He has had such an impact, as had been spoken of earlier, on a number 
of world leaders that he impacted with that simple message. The words 
that he shared--and he left us many quotes, and many of us are inspired 
by those quotes--but the words that he used that were most impactful 
were the words of Jesus. He just repeated the words that Christ had 
given us.
  He was also a man of great, great courage. A lot of people don't 
realize the close relationship he had with Martin Luther King, Jr. And 
in the 1950s, when Billy Graham came to the south and he was going to 
preach at one of the crusades, he noticed that there was a rope running 
through the middle of the congregation, a rope that separated Whites 
from Blacks. He was so offended, he went and asked that that rope be 
removed; and when the ushers refused to do it, Billy Graham went and 
moved the rope himself.
  That sparked a friendship with him and Martin Luther King, Jr. When 
Martin Luther King, Jr. penned his famous ``Letter from Birmingham 
Jail,'' he condemned a lot of churches for not being engaged in what we 
believed that God created everyone in his image and that they should 
all be equal. But Billy Graham was not one of those. He stood strong.
  In fact, in 1960, when Martin Luther King, Jr., was in prison, Billy 
Graham paid his bail. Billy Graham has left a mark, but we still fight 
some of the battles that he warned us of and he fought back then.
  A couple of the quotes that have meant so much to me that Billy 
Graham left us with is one that God's will will not take us to where 
God's grace will not sustain us, knowing he was preparing us for 
battles that we have to fight.
  He also stated that the Founders who pinned our Constitution believed 
in a freedom of religion, not a freedom from religion. And finally, 
even though we are in a time of crisis in this Nation, things are 
happening we don't understand, the last quote that I will leave you 
with that Billy Graham said is: ``I've read the last page of the Bible. 
It's all going to turn out all right.''
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I am next honored to recognize the 
gentleman from California (Mr. LaMalfa).
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate Mr. Hultgren for leading this 
effort here tonight but also his great spiritual counsel and 
partnership in this building here. It is very much appreciated. Indeed, 
he is one of God's great servants.
  So, you know, as I harken back on my years of when we saw Billy 
Graham on TV and the inspirational character he was, and all my 
colleagues here tonight have alluded to it as well, he lived a very, 
very full life, a selfless life. And when I think about the leaders 
that have come through Washington, indeed, what is this town named for? 
George Washington, who is probably the single most selfless politician 
I can ever think of in terms of giving of service, putting himself last 
and the country first. He didn't want to be king. He didn't really want 
to preside so much, but he wanted to help. God was always on his side.
  And I see in Billy Graham that same kind of greatness of the founding 
policies, the founding values of George Washington's and some of our 
Founders manifested, in a man who reached and saved millions in this 
country over those years with his crusades.

  A couple of my colleagues already mentioned his interaction with Dr. 
King. And with this being Black History Month, the last couple of days 
of it here, I thought it would be appropriate to touch on that as well 
because Billy Graham helped be a force in the civil rights movement, 
showing the way for others who may have been hesitant or breaking down 
the barrier for those who still wanted to sustain segregation.
  My colleague mentioned the Chattanooga rally there where he himself 
went down when the ushers would not do it, and he removed those ropes 
so it would be integrated because, in God's eyes, all are equal, and 
then setting out in the Constitution all are created equal.
  So Billy Graham sustained that in his years of friendship with Dr. 
King, and showing that he was a nonpartisan, nonracial leader, helped 
saved the lives of all men who are created equal. So that goes so far 
that he is willing to put it on the line. He made people mad. He made 
the head usher resign that day when he made that courageous--but what 
he probably felt wasn't courageous at all--but the right action.
  So Billy Graham, even to his last day when he made a short video, was 
all about informing people about Jesus, about the salvation they could 
have if they would just embrace Jesus and find what eternal life really 
is all about, that it isn't what treasures we store here on this planet 
but the ones we store in Heaven when we embrace Him.
  There will never be another like him, but we can always remember him 
with pride. And as he would say himself, that his stores of treasure 
are up in Heaven. And he will be even stronger up there with his legacy 
and his memory and his family members that go on to do what he did.
  So God bless Billy Graham, and I thank, again, Mr. Hultgren for this 
opportunity tonight.
  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate Congressman LaMalfa's words.
  I am next honored to recognize the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Olson).
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Illinois. No one knows 
how many lives and souls Reverend Billy Graham saved. We know that for 
every one he saved, he saved two, two saved four, four saved eight, et 
cetera.
  One life we know he saved was Louis Zamperini. Louis' story is in a 
book called, ``Unbroken,'' and a movie by that same name. He was a 
track star, a silver medalist, 1936 games, Olympic games in Munich. In 
World War II, he flew B-24 bombers. That was a dangerous plane. Twice, 
his plane crashed. The second time, he floated the Pacific Ocean for 47 
days. He said: ``God, if I survive this ordeal and get back to America 
alive, I'll seek You and serve You.''
  He was captured by the Japanese and spent the rest of the war in a 
prison war camp in Japan. A guard there he called, ``The Bird,'' knew 
of Louis' fame, and he beat him to a pulp every single day. Louis said: 
``I was constantly being tormented by the guy. And you talk about hate. 
I wanted to kill him.''
  His nightmares of the POW camp came home. He was consumed by anger. 
One night, Louis dreamed he was strangling The Bird to death. Instead, 
he woke up to find out he was strangling his wife, Cynthia. He started 
getting drunk as a skunk every night to forget about the horrors that 
plagued him.
  With her husband getting drunk every single night, Cynthia filed for 
divorce, and that is when a friend invited her to see the Reverend 
Billy Graham crusade in a Los Angeles tent dubbed, ``The Canvas 
Cathedral.'' She accepted Christ that night.
  She convinced Louis to attend Reverend Graham's service. After 
storming out of that tent the first night, Louis returned for one more 
evening. That time, the Bible verse Billy Graham quoted went straight 
to Louis' heart. He said: ``Of all my near-death experiences, my life 
never passed before my eyes. But when Billy Graham quoted Scripture, my 
life did pass before my eyes.'' For the first time in years, Louis 
remembered the promise he made God when he was floating in the South 
Pacific.
  That night, he went forward and accepted Christ, and the biggest 
miracle of his life was set in motion. Louis' transformation was so 
complete that he returned to Japan to share the Gospel with the 
hundreds of Japanese troops that tortured him that he once hated. He 
watched many of them accept Jesus Christ.
  He went to share his faith all around the world, speaking at several 
Billy Graham crusades, and had a great

[[Page H1327]]

friendship with Reverend Graham that lasted until Louis' death on July 
2, 2014.
  Before he died, Louis said these important words: ``This Billy Graham 
thing is a phenomenal miracle the way it started, the way it spread 
out. I'm one guy that got saved, and I've spoken to hundreds of 
thousands and had my testimony in papers where millions read it. One 
person. Think of the spider-web effect all over the world.''
  Thank God for Reverend Billy Graham. Amen, Louis. Thank God for 
Reverend Billy Graham.

                              {time}  1915

  Mr. HULTGREN. Mr. Speaker, I am so grateful for so many of my 
colleagues who were able to join us tonight to remember Reverend Billy 
Graham, born November 7, 1918, and died February 21, 2018.
  Billy Graham was a lion of the Christian faith and a believer in the 
all-encompassing love of God for all people.
  I knew Billy Graham from such an early age: knew of him, knew of his 
ministry, and was struck even more so most of my growing up years in 
Wheaton, Illinois, where Billy Graham went to school, met his wife. 
Much of his ministry started in Wheaton and in that area around 
Wheaton.
  His ministry spanned generations of American religious thought and 
culture, but his core message remained unchanged throughout his entire 
lifetime. His evangelistic gatherings attracted millions throughout the 
globe for decades. His name is known around the world, as many have 
said tonight, maybe one of the most recognized names and most respected 
throughout his entire lifetime.
  I remember way back in 1971--I was 5 years old--my mom and dad 
brought me down to McCormick Place down in downtown Chicago, to be part 
of the 1971 Billy Graham crusade. My dad was a counselor at that 
crusade. I was a little 5-year-old boy, but I still remember that 
night. I remember the power of the message, I remember the power of 
this messenger of God sharing his love for us, but also the truth of 
the love that Jesus has for us. That he gave everything so that I could 
have hope, so that I could have new life.
  Even as a little boy, that affected me. It moved me. It moved me so 
much that it had me ask more questions of my own mom and dad when I got 
home. And, ultimately, it was that same year, right around that time, 
when I recognized that I was sinful, even as a little boy, that I was 
selfish, that I needed help, I needed a savior, and that I needed 
someone to pay a price that I couldn't pay.
  And as Billy Graham had stated, and as my mom and dad had taught me, 
and as my own grandpa had taught me, only Jesus could pay that price, 
and he wanted to do it to give me that free gift of redemption, the 
hope that we can have only through Jesus. That was the story and the 
message of Billy Graham.
  Jumping forward quite a few years, I had the privilege, just 12 years 
ago, of being down in Louisiana. I went to the Louisiana State 
Penitentiary. It is also known as Angola. Louisiana State Penitentiary 
was known as the bloodiest prison in all of America for decades and 
decades and decades--more killings and more violence than any other 
prison. And then something happened.
  God used some people, specifically a warden there, Warden Cain, who 
came, and others, to change the hearts of these inmates. They brought a 
seminary into this Louisiana State Penitentiary.
  Now, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of prisoners in Louisiana 
State Penitentiary have gone through seminary--New Orleans Seminary--
that is right there in the prison, and have gained their own Bible 
graduate degrees of being pastors, although they are still in prison.
  One of the things that changed in Louisiana State Penitentiary--it 
had been when prisoners died in prison, and almost all of them die 
there, because life means life in Louisiana--what happened before was, 
when prisoners died, they would just be thrown in a ditch in the back 
behind the cafeteria and thrown some dirt on top of them. The warden 
and others felt like this was absolutely inhumane treatment for 
anybody, even prisoners, so they changed something.
  They have a woodworking program there, and the inmates of Angola, 
Louisiana State Penitentiary, started making caskets for their fellow 
prisoners who would die in prison. They handcraft these caskets so that 
they are actually gorgeous, handcrafted, recognizing that every life is 
of infinite value because God lived and died for that life.
  Well, Franklin Graham, Billy's son, was down in Louisiana State 
Penitentiary a few years ago. He went on a tour there, saw these 
caskets that were being made for inmates, went back and talked to his 
mom and dad.
  Billy Graham and Ruth Graham said: Do you know what? We want to be 
buried in caskets that were made by prisoners.
  I am so excited. Tomorrow, this unbelievable honor of Billy Graham 
being laid in honor in the United States rotunda, one of only four 
people who have had that great honor, but also the story that is going 
to be told, that Billy Graham is going to be laid in the rotunda in a 
casket that was made by prisoners in Louisiana State Penitentiary. What 
an amazing statement of humility of recognizing that we are all the 
same. We are all broken people, we all need saving, whether we are 
preaching to millions and millions of people, or whether we are in 
prison for the rest of our lives because of the mistakes we have made. 
We all cannot reach that standard, that perfect standard, to be with 
God forever. We need someone to help us reach that, and only Jesus can 
help us do that.
  Billy Graham recognized that. The statement is going to be very clear 
in the rotunda, just outside of these doors tomorrow over the next day 
and a half, of recognition of his life, and then, ultimately, he will 
be buried there.
  I remember back--and I will end with this--just the message of Billy 
Graham very clear. Two questions that I think were so important for 
Billy Graham. One he talked about in his book, ``Just As I Am.''
  He said: The first question I have for God when I get to heaven is, 
Why me? Why me, a farm kid from North Carolina that could barely make 
it through school? Why me? Why did you choose me as an instrument?
  And I think the answer to that question goes back to Isaiah 6:8. That 
when Isaiah heard the Lord say, ``Whom shall I send,'' Isaiah said, 
``Here I am, Lord, send me.''
  That is exactly what Billy Graham did. He said: Here I am, Lord, send 
me. Broken, imperfect, not a great speaker, but here I am, send me
  And through that willingness, millions and millions and millions of 
lives were touched.
  The last question was one that I heard when I went to that crusade in 
1971. And it was: Who is Jesus to you? This person of Jesus that has 
impacted more people in this world than any other person, who is Jesus 
to you?
  It was a question that I had to struggle with, even as a 5-year-old. 
I continue to learn and grow and understand Jesus. And different people 
have different ideas of who Jesus is. No one can deny he was a real 
person who had more impact on this world than anybody else.
  We talk about the impact that Billy Graham has had. Jesus is the 
reason for the impact that Billy Graham had.
  So he asked the question: Who is Jesus?
  And I think it is worth the study, to take the time to look into who 
was this man who lived 2,000 years ago, yet affected everything. Even 
our calendar is adjusted to his life.
  Who is this Jesus?
  As you dig in and you ask questions and study, the question is 
either: Is this Jesus who he said he is or isn't he? Is he a liar? Is 
he a lunatic? Or is he Lord?
  Lord and Savior, the only hope, the light of this world, I believe 
that that is exactly who this Jesus is. It was what Billy Graham talked 
about.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to close with a verse many people remember from 
the Billy Graham crusades. The closing of those crusades were led with 
a call for people to come forward, but also with an amazing hymn, 
``Just As I Am.'' I want to read a verse or two, and then close.

     Just as I am, without one plea,
     But that thy blood was shed for me,
     And that though bidst me come to thee,
     O lamb of God, I come, I come.
     Just as I am, and waiting not
     To rid my soul of one dark blot,

[[Page H1328]]

     To thee whose blood can cleanse each spot,
     O lamb of God, I come, I come.

  Thank you, Billy Graham. Thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you 
for sharing this message of hope with so many people.
  We are so honored to recognize him and to thank his family.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. HUDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor the late 
Reverend Billy Graham who is just the fourth private citizen to lie in 
honor in the U.S. Capitol.
  In 1918, Rev. Graham was born in Charlotte, North Carolina where he 
was raised on a dairy farm. At the age of 15, the young Billy Graham 
made his personal commitment to Christ during a tent revival meeting in 
Charlotte. Following graduation from Wheaton College and his marriage 
to classmate Ruth Bell in 1943, Rev. Graham began his ministry. While 
his ministry would take him to every corner of the globe, Billy Graham 
never forgot his purpose or his roots in the Old North State.
  As the Lord's faithful servant, Billy Graham lived a simple life in 
North Carolina with his dear wife Ruth and their five children. Yet his 
ministry touched the lives of millions, as he taught God's word and 
spread the good news of the gospel. It has been estimated he preached 
to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and 
territories, embracing innovation and new technologies to reach as many 
people as possible.
  Affectionately known as ``North Carolina's Favorite Son'' and 
``America's Pastor,'' Billy Graham's counsel was sought by presidents 
and leaders throughout the world in times of despair and prosperity. No 
matter his audience, he preached a constant message of finding 
``strength for the present and hope for the future'' in Jesus Christ.
  I join with our entire community, state, nation and world in mourning 
his passing, while rejoicing in the knowledge that Billy Graham is home 
with his beloved Ruth in the presence of our Father in heaven.
  Mr. Speaker, Reverend Billy Graham holds a special place in the 
hearts of millions of Americans and people throughout the world. He is 
most deserving of this honor and I urge our fellow Americans to join me 
in paying their respects to America's Pastor and celebrating the life 
of Reverend Billy Graham.
  Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor and recognition of 
Reverend Billy Graham, America's Pastor, who passed away on February 
21, 2018 to return home to his Lord and Savior. As a nation, we mourn 
the passing of Billy Graham, and send our deepest condolences to the 
Graham family. Billy Graham preached the Gospel, and his influence can 
hardly be quantified. His ministry career and crusades inspired and 
motivated millions, and carried out his mission to save souls around 
the world.
  Early in his career, Reverend Graham served the Midwest as a pastor 
in Western Springs, Illinois. He attended Wheaton College and in 1981, 
they opened a center in his honor. During his time in Illinois, Graham 
took on a radio ministry program based in Chicago and expanded his 
activism. From there, he began to completely transform American 
religious life through his compelling sermons and preaching. Billy 
Graham went on to serve across the country, in many ways and on many 
platforms. He provided spiritual counsel to every President of the 
United States from Harry Truman to Barack Obama, and was a strong 
figure in the civil rights movement urging for integration.
  Mr. Speaker, Billy Graham was a humble servant to the Lord who 
changed countless lives for the better. His was a life well lived. And 
I know his legacy will live on forever. Today, let us look up in the 
sky and give thanks to our faithful, steadfast friend who is finally at 
home with God and resting in eternal peace.

                          ____________________



