

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H26]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT APPRECIATION DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Mitchell) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, today is National Law Enforcement 
Appreciation Day, and so I rise to honor our men and women in blue. My 
oldest son is a local police officer, so I am acutely aware of the 
risks and sacrifices made by the men and women in law enforcement.
  They assume risks every day--risks we sometimes take for granted in 
order to keep our communities safe. Being a law enforcement officer 
isn't a job. It is a calling. It is a service to the community.

                              {time}  1045

  Despite the very real risks, they respond to the call always knowing 
they may not go home.
  Just last week, a deputy in the community my son serves in was struck 
by a car during a traffic accident. Yes, he was responding to a traffic 
accident, and he was hit by a car. It broke his back, broke his neck, 
and crushed his face. The last update I received, he was in critical 
condition. All he was doing was trying to protect people at a traffic 
accident.
  We can't take that for granted. Today we need to pause and simply 
offer a thank-you to law enforcement officers across the country and to 
their families. We offer a prayer for those who have reached the end of 
watch.
  Join me today in thanking police officers across this Nation. Take a 
moment to simply say thank you.


           Recognizing the Bicentennial Year of Macomb County

  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the bicentennial year 
of Macomb County, Michigan.
  On January 15, 1818, Macomb County was formally organized as the 
third county in the territory of Michigan. Macomb County was designated 
nearly 20 years before Michigan even gained statehood. It was named in 
honor of General Alexander Macomb, a decorated veteran of the War of 
1812. Macomb's rich history of service to our Nation doesn't stop 
there.
  In July 1917, almost 100 years after Macomb's founding, Selfridge 
Field was established. Everyone in Macomb County and the National Guard 
knows the importance of Selfridge Air National Guard to our national 
security. Its founding just 13 years after the Wright brothers' first 
flight is a true testament to the commitment to national security and 
to innovation that has defined Macomb County for 200 years.
  In addition to being the auto capital of the world, Macomb led the 
manufacturing that resulted in the arsenal of democracy in America's 
victory in World War II. Our defense industry helped the Allies win 
World War II and continues to provide necessary resources to maintain 
our strength and security in the world.
  I am proud to represent Macomb County in Washington, D.C., and eager 
to celebrate the 200th anniversary of this great county.

                          ____________________



