

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 4 (Monday, January 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 4 (Monday, January 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S67-S68]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 552

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 552, a bill to amend 
the Truth in Lending Act and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to 
provide justice to victims of fraud.


                                 S. 774

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 774, a bill to address the 
psychological, developmental, social, and emotional needs of children, 
youth, and families who have experienced trauma, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1674

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1674, a bill to provide 
grants for the repair, renovation, and construction of public 
elementary schools and secondary schools, to establish a school 
infrastructure bond program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act 
of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                                S. 1873

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1873, a bill 
to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a program to 
establish peer specialists in patient aligned care teams at medical 
centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2009

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2009, a bill to require a 
background check for every firearm sale.


                                S. 2032

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2032, a bill to make 
certain footwear eligible for duty-free treatment under the Generalized 
System of Preferences, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2144

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the names of the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith), the 
Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) were added as cosponsors of S. 2144, a bill to provide a 
process for granting lawful permanent resident status to aliens from 
certain countries who meet specified eligibility requirements.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2152, a bill to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to provide for assistance for victims of child 
pornography, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2236, a bill to 
require covered discrimination and covered harassment awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered discrimination and covered harassment complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Montana (Mr. 
Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2271, a bill to reauthorize the 
Museum and Library Services Act.


                                S. 2272

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2272, a bill to amend the Revised Statutes to grant 
State attorneys general the ability to issue

[[Page S68]]

subpoenas to investigate suspected violations of State laws that are 
applicable to national banks.

                          ____________________



