

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1228-S1233]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     EXECUTIVE CALENDAR--Continued

  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cruz). The Senator from Ohio.


           Honoring Officers Anthony Morelli and Eric Joering

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I would like to talk today about two

[[Page S1229]]

brave Ohioans who were tragically killed while serving their community 
and all of us.
  On Saturday, February 10, Ohio lost two of its finest when 
Westerville Police Officers Anthony Morelli and Eric Joering were 
fatally shot responding to a 9-1-1 call. They rushed to the scene. When 
they arrived, they were under fire. Officer Joering was killed at the 
scene. Officer Morelli died in surgery later that day.
  Officer Morelli was a 29-year veteran of the Westerville Police 
Department. He leaves behind his wife Linda, their daughter Beth, and 
son Chris. Officer Joering was a 16-year veteran of the Westerville 
Police Department, where he was a K-9 officer partnered with his dog 
Sam.
  Eric loved working with Sam, but what he really loved were his kids 
and his wife. His most important job, he said, was being a husband and 
a father. He is survived by his wife Jami and his beautiful daughters 
Eva, Elena, and Ella.
  Both men were loved and respected members of the Westerville 
community, and both will be sorely missed. I had a chance to talk to a 
number of their fellow officers, their colleagues, over the weekend and 
heard many stories about them, their bravery, and their commitment to 
service.
  I also had the great honor to meet with the families of both of these 
fallen officers over this past weekend in Columbus, OH. Linda Morelli 
and Jami Joering are incredibly strong women and incredibly strong 
mothers. I expressed my thanks from all Ohioans for their husbands' 
service. I also had a chance to talk to four of the five children about 
their fathers' exemplary service; that they had fallen in service to 
all of us and how much we appreciated them.
  The U.S. Capitol has flags that are flown for special occasions, and 
two flags were flown in honor of the sacrifices these two good men made 
protecting the people of Ohio.
  Throughout this tragic situation, I will say the people of Central 
Ohio and, frankly, across the Nation have stepped up in big ways to 
support and assist these two families. I am encouraged by the kindness 
and generosity we have seen.
  I want to take a moment to just say that these two brave officers, 
Tony Morelli and Eric Joering, were the best. They made the ultimate 
sacrifice for all of us. Today, we hold their families up in prayer.
  (The remarks of Mr. Portman pertaining to the introduction of S. 2456 
are printed in today's Record under ``Statements on Introduced Bills 
and Joint Resolutions.'')
  Mr. PORTMAN. I yield back.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from South Dakota.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, tax reform is working. The Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act has been the law of the land for just 2 months, but it is 
already helping American workers.
  When it came time to draft tax reform legislation, we had one 
objective, and that was to make hard-working Americans' lives better. 
To accomplish that, we focused on two important priorities.
  First, we focused on immediately increasing Americans' take-home pay. 
We lowered tax rates across the board, we nearly doubled the standard 
deduction, and we doubled the child tax credit. All of those provisions 
went into effect on January 1, and by the end of this month, according 
to the IRS, 90 percent of the American people should see lower 
paychecks.
  While immediate relief for hard-working Americans was crucial, we 
wanted more than that. We wanted to give the American people access to 
the kinds of jobs and the kinds of wages and opportunities that would 
set them up for long-term security. We wanted to give them the kinds of 
jobs and wages where they wouldn't be forced to choose between sending 
their kids to college and saving for a secure retirement or between 
paying the mortgage or medical bills. So in addition to lowering the 
tax burden on Americans directly, we set about improving the playing 
field for American businesses so that we could make things better for 
American workers.

  Needless to say, in order for American workers to thrive, the 
American economy has to thrive, and that means that American businesses 
have to thrive. It is pretty hard for a small business to hire a new 
worker or to raise wages if the owner can barely pay the tax bill. It 
is unlikely that an American company is going to have a lot of spare 
cash for investing in its workforce if it is struggling to compete with 
foreign companies that are paying far less in taxes. It is unlikely 
that America's global companies are going to focus on reinvesting in 
the United States if they face a tax penalty for bringing foreign 
earnings back home. So we lowered our Nation's massive corporate tax 
rate, which, up until January 1, was the highest corporate tax rate in 
the developed world. We lowered tax rates across the board for owners 
of small- and medium-sized businesses, farms, and ranches. We expanded 
business owners' ability to recover investments they make in their 
businesses, which will free up cash that they can reinvest into their 
operations and their workers. We brought the U.S. international tax 
system into the 21st century by replacing our outdated worldwide system 
with a modernized territorial tax system so that American businesses 
are not operating at a disadvantage next to their foreign competitors.
  The goal in all of this was to free up businesses to increase their 
investments in the American economy and in American workers, and that 
is exactly what businesses are doing. The list of tax reform good news 
keeps growing--wage increases, new jobs, increased investment, bonuses, 
benefit increases, and the list goes on and on.
  Take utility bills. Lower utility bills might not be the first result 
we think of from tax reform, but tax reform is saving utility companies 
money, and they are passing those savings on to consumers.
  Washington, DC, radio station WTOP reports:

       In a flip-flop related to tax reform, [utility company] 
     Pepco now says it wants to cut rates instead of raise them.
       In December and January, the utility announced plans to 
     raise rates in D.C. and Maryland respectively. . . . But the 
     sweeping Federal tax bill signed into law late last year 
     meant a significant tax savings for the utility. As a result, 
     Pepco is now asking the Maryland Public Service Commission to 
     approve a rate cut.

  That is right--they were talking about a rate increase, but now they 
are talking about a rate cut in their utility rates.
  Take this story from the Daily Energy Insider titled ``Federal Tax 
Cut More Than Reverses Eversource Rate Increase in Massachusetts.''
  The Daily Energy Insider:

       Many Eversource Energy electricity customers in 
     Massachusetts who were expecting to see a rate increase this 
     year instead will see a rate reduction because of the recent 
     Federal corporate tax cut.
       ``What was expected to be about a $36 million annual rate 
     increase has turned into a $20 million annual decrease,'' 
     said the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities.

  In my home State of South Dakota, Black Hills Energy in Rapid City is 
working with regulators to pass tax savings on to South Dakotans. So 
far, utility companies in at least 39 States are passing tax savings on 
to consumers, and that can be a real help to family budgets. Everybody 
knows how much gets spent out of every family's budget on utilities, on 
energy, and certainly in my part of the country in South Dakota, with 
the cold winters, that is even amplified. It can be a real help to 
family budgets, particularly families who are living paycheck to 
paycheck.
  In Florida, Florida Power and Light Company announced that thanks to 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, it will no longer require its customers to 
pay a surcharge for Hurricane Irma restoration. Instead, the company 
reports:

       Florida Power and Light plans to apply federal tax savings 
     toward the $1.3 billion cost of Hurricane Irma restoration, 
     which will save each of Florida Power and Light's 4.9 million 
     customers an average of approximately $250.

  Thanks to tax reform, good news for American workers seems to just 
pour in daily, whether it is lower utility bills, new jobs, bonuses, 
or, as Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina announced last 
week, lower rate increases on health insurance.
  I am proud that tax reform is accomplishing our goal of making life 
better for hard-working Americans, and I look forward to seeing even 
more benefits for American workers in the weeks and months to come.

[[Page S1230]]

  I yield the floor.
  Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Hoeven). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


               Nominations of Ryan Nelson and Susan Combs

  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, as chairman of the Senate Western Caucus 
and as a Montanan, I am here to urge the swift confirmation of two 
outstanding nominations to serve in the Department of the Interior. The 
first is Ryan Nelson, a native of Idaho Falls, ID, as Solicitor of the 
Department of the Interior. The second is Susan Combs, a rancher from 
Big Bend, TX. She is nominated to be Assistant Secretary for Policy, 
Management and Budget.
  Both of these positions are critical to managing our public lands and 
wildlife. Yet these two well-qualified individuals have been waiting in 
a bureaucratic limbo. Mr. Nelson was first nominated over 209 days ago, 
and Ms. Combs received her first nomination over 231 days ago.
  Mr. Nelson is a great choice to serve as Solicitor. He is a 
westerner, and he spends time fishing and hunting with his family in 
Idaho. He understands our western way of life, and he has the work 
experience to make sure our public lands are managed and protected in 
the right way.
  His service includes serving as clerk on the U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the D.C. Circuit, serving as special counsel for the Senate 
Committee on the Judiciary and as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in 
the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of 
Justice.
  At the Department of Justice, he worked to defend vital Federal 
programs and oversaw many complex cases involving our natural 
resources, wildlife, and environment. He also compelled polluters to 
limit harmful emissions into the air and worked with then-Solicitor of 
the Department of the Interior David Bernhardt on the listing decision 
for the polar bear. Like Mr. Bernhardt, Ryan is capable of upholding 
the law and the science, even when it is not easy.
  If you want someone who values conservation, who knows the 
appropriate use of laws, like the Antiquities Act and the Endangered 
Species Act, then Ryan is your guy. The Department of the Interior 
needs Ryan's expertise to help make the best decisions possible for the 
benefit of our natural resources and the people and wildlife living 
around them. His confirmation must be prioritized.
  Ms. Combs is also exactly the right person for the job to serve as 
the Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management and Budget. Ms. Combs 
has had a long and successful career both in business and in public 
service, including as a member of the Texas House of Representatives, 
as Texas's agriculture commissioner, and as Texas's comptroller of 
public accounts. Her proven management track record in public service 
and in business is crucial to making the Department of the Interior 
more efficient and effective to help ensure the responsible stewardship 
of western lands.
  Both Mr. Nelson's and Ms. Combs's nominations have been pending 
longer than any of their predecessors'--now listen to this--over the 
past 25 years. This is not just bad governance; it is a complete lack 
of governance. Here is the problem. When you have qualified individuals 
like Mr. Nelson and like Ms. Combs who wait in this bureaucratic limbo 
for this long, it then puts them in a position to, maybe, find other 
employment. We need to find the best people who are willing to serve in 
these positions, and we need to give them the respect of moving them 
through quickly so that we can keep them with the thought of entering 
public service.
  Colleagues, it is time to get the job done and move these critical 
nominations across the finish line.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Vermont.


                               Gun Safety

  Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, this morning, I had the opportunity to 
meet with some extraordinary young people. These were students from 
Parkland, FL, who attend the school where the mass shooting took place 
2 weeks ago. What was amazingly impressive about these young people is 
that in the midst of their grief, in the midst of the unbelievably 
traumatic experience that they went through in seeing their best 
friends being shot and wounded in cold blood and their teachers killed, 
they resolved not just to mourn and grieve for their friends and 
neighbors; they resolved to stand up and fight back and come to 
Washington, go to Tallahassee, FL, and go around the country to do 
everything they can to make certain that no more children--no more 
young people--are mowed down and slaughtered in schools.
  Nobody thinks that the issue of gun safety is going to be an easy 
issue to solve. There are literally hundreds of millions of guns 
throughout this country, and there are 5 million assault weapons 
throughout this country today. Tragically, there are many thousands of 
people, I expect in every State in this country, who are walking our 
streets and are at their wits end emotionally, who are suicidal, who 
are homicidal. Many of those people have access to guns and guns of 
mass destruction. I think that in some respects, the slaughter at the 
high school in Parkland, FL, was kind of the straw that broke the 
camel's back.
  Several months ago, the American people were stunned to see some very 
sick person in Las Vegas break a window and start mowing down people. 
He killed some 58 Americans and wounded 500 people within a period of a 
few minutes. That was on top of Sandy Hook. It was on top of so many 
gun slaughters that, I think, what has finally happened--maybe because 
of the extraordinary efforts of these young people from Parkland--the 
American people are saying that enough is enough, that we have a 
difficult problem. We may not be able to solve it completely overnight, 
but we have a moral obligation to do everything we can to make certain 
that no more children--no more people in this country--are mowed down 
by some sick person with a weapon.
  That is not just I who is talking, and it is not just the young 
people from the high school in Florida. It is pretty much what the 
American people want. Let me refer the Presiding Officer to a few polls 
that were conducted fairly recently.
  A Quinnipiac poll was done on February 20, just a week ago. This is 
what that poll showed.
  It showed that 97 percent of the American people support universal 
background checks, which is not a radical idea. What the American 
people are saying and what gun owners are saying is that we should keep 
guns out of the hands of people who are not responsible and should not 
own guns. Universal background checks are almost universally supported 
by the American people.
  In that same Quinnipiac poll, 83 percent of the American people 
indicated support for a mandatory waiting period for all gun purchases. 
You don't want somebody who is angry, who is upset, or who had 
something terrible happen to go running to a gun store, buying a gun, 
and then going out and using it.
  There are 75 percent who, basically, want the Congress to address the 
issue of gun violence and to start taking action.
  There are 67 percent of the people polled by Quinnipiac who support a 
nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons. They believe and I 
believe that assault weapons are designed as military weapons to kill 
human beings. That is what those weapons are designed to do. I believe 
and have believed for 30 years--and a majority of the American people 
believe--that we should end the sale and distribution of those weapons. 
That was in a Quinnipiac poll.
  According to a CNN poll that was done more recently, just a few days 
ago on February 25, 70 percent of the American people want stricter gun 
laws. This is the highest number that CNN has registered since way back 
when the Brady Bill passed, in 1993.
  According to CNN, 87 percent support laws to prevent convicted felons 
and the mentally ill from owning guns. There are 71 percent who support 
banning anyone under the age of 21 from buying a gun. There are 63 
percent who

[[Page S1231]]

support a ban on the sale and possession of high-capacity magazines. 
There are 57 percent who support an assault weapons ban, and 56 percent 
say that stricter gun laws would reduce gun-related deaths.
  We have a difficult issue which is not going to be solved overnight, 
and nobody thinks that it will. Yet the American people are demanding 
that we have the courage to stand up to the NRA and finally take some 
action that will move us in the right direction. Let me just suggest 
some of the ways I believe we should go forward in a bipartisan way.
  Once again, the American people believe and I believe in universal 
background checks. That means, among other things, ending the so-called 
gun show loophole, because background checks don't mean anything if 
somebody can go to a gun show or on the internet and buy weapons 
without undergoing any background check. Overwhelmingly, the American 
people say that before somebody is able to purchase a gun, we need to 
know: Is the person a killer? Is he a person who has engaged in 
domestic violence? Is he somebody who has a history of mental health 
problems? If that is the case, that person should not be buying a gun.
  I think serious gun safety legislation must include addressing the 
so-called straw man purchases. This is a provision by which people can 
legally go to gun shops, buy the weapons that they want, but then they 
are going to sell those weapons or distribute those weapons to people 
who should not be owning those weapons and who could not have purchased 
those weapons on their own. I have indicated it is my view that we 
should ban assault weapons in this country--weapons that are designed 
for no other purpose but to kill human beings.
  Furthermore, I think it is clear that we are a nation that is facing 
a mental health crisis. I know that in my office--and I expect in the 
offices of other Senators--we get calls all of the time from people who 
say: I am worried about my husband. I am worried about my brother. He 
is at his wits end. I don't know what he is going to do to himself or 
what he is going to do to somebody else. We have been searching for 
mental health treatment, but we cannot find anything that is available 
now or that we can afford.
  I believe we should be moving forward to pass legislation which says 
that Americans who suffer today from mental health crises should be 
able to get the mental healthcare they need now, not 2 months from now, 
because 2 months from now may be too late.
  We also need to address the fact that, every year, women are being 
killed by their husbands or their boyfriends and that if somebody is a 
stalker, if somebody is convicted of domestic violence, if somebody is 
under a restraining order, we should be clear that that person should 
not be owning a gun. This is just some of what I think needs to be 
done.
  We are at a moment when the American people have had it up to here. 
They do not want to turn on their TVs tomorrow or next week or next 
month and see the horrible, unspeakable things that we have seen in 
schools throughout this country.
  At this particular moment in history, I hope that in a bipartisan way 
we can come together and do what the American people want us to do, 
which is to pass commonsense gun safety legislation that is supported 
by the overwhelming majority of the American people.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The assistant bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                             Net Neutrality

  Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I would like to speak on behalf of my 
constituents and the tens of millions of Americans who rely on a free 
and open internet.
  Make no mistake, we are locked in a historic battle to preserve the 
core principles of competition, innovation, and consumer choice that 
have made the internet the world's greatest platform for commerce and 
communications; a historic battle to restore the hallmark of American 
innovation and democratization; a historic battle to protect America's 
innovation incubator and job generator--a battle for net neutrality.
  In December, the Trump FCC, the Federal Communications Commission, 
eliminated net neutrality. These rules prevented your internet service 
provider--Comcast, Verizon, AT&T, and Charter--from indiscriminately 
charging more for internet fast lanes or slowing down or even blocking 
certain websites entirely, the very rules that allow inventors, 
entrepreneurs, and small businesses, the lifeblood of the American 
economy, to connect to the internet.
  The reason why is simple. The Trump administration sides with the 
rich and the powerful first and consistently puts everyday American 
lives last. We have seen them wage an all-out assault on healthcare, on 
climate change, and now on net neutrality, but today the internet is 
fighting back, and we have a powerful tool at our disposal that will 
allow the average consumer to have their voices heard right here on the 
floor of the U.S. Senate.
  Today I am officially introducing a CRA--Congressional Review Act--
resolution that will fully restore net neutrality. The entire Senate 
Democratic caucus is now standing with the millions of Americans who 
want to reverse the FCC's partisan actions and restore net neutrality.
  Net neutrality is not and should not be a partisan issue. I thank 
Senator Susan Collins for supporting my CRA, and I encourage other 
Republican colleagues to stand with all of us who support net 
neutrality. We are just one vote away in the Senate from restoring net 
neutrality. There will be a vote right here on the floor of the Senate 
sometime this spring. The clock is ticking. We just need a simple 
majority for passage, and that is just one more vote.
  When we take that vote, every one of my colleagues will have to 
answer the simple question: Whose side are you on? Do you stand with 
hard-working American families for whom the internet is essential or do 
you stand with the Big Money corporate interests and their army of 
lobbyists? We should all be on the right side of history.
  Millennials are motivated. Momentum is building. Citizens are joining 
together demonstrating, writing letters, calling their Members of 
Congress, and taking this message to social media. They are joined by 
groups that include Fight for the Future, Demand Progress, Free Press, 
the Center for Digital Technology, the Center for Media Justice, Color 
of Change, Common Cause, Consumers Union, Engine, the National Hispanic 
Media Coalition, the Open Technology Institute, Public Knowledge, and 
many others out across the country that are organizing right now as 
part of an effort that is going to bring millions of voices into the 
offices of every Senator and every House Member in our country.
  This fight is not limited to the Halls of Congress. We are seeing a 
historic groundswell of activity at the State and local level. The 
Governors in Hawaii, New Jersey, Vermont, Montana, and New York have 
issued executive orders promoting net neutrality.
  State legislatures in more than half of the United States are 
currently considering net neutrality legislation. Just today, 76 mayors 
across the Nation signed a letter opposing net neutrality repeal, and 
23 State attorneys general have filed suit to reinstate the rule, and 
we plan to stand by them throughout this entire battle, in the court 
and out here on the floor of Congress.
  We cannot let net neutrality be another example of Congress 
disregarding public opinion and putting donor interests first. Net 
neutrality is our 21st century right, and we will fight to protect it. 
In fact, 83 percent of all Americans in polling say they want to 
protect net neutrality. By the way, that is pretty much every 
millennial, because for millennials, the internet is like oxygen. I 
will say that if you are 35 years old or younger, the poll is at pretty 
close to 100 percent.
  I can see all the pages nodding their heads as I am speaking. They 
know no life without a device that they are carrying around. This is 
the world in which we are living, and they do not want to have any 
discrimination introduce itself into the relationship they

[[Page S1232]]

have between the internet and their ability to control their own lives. 
That is what the battle is all about, those nodding heads of the pages 
in the well of the Senate. Those are the people who are going to be 
making a difference, the millennials, the generation Z young people who 
want this to be open for entrepreneurial activity and for democracy.


                              Gun Violence

  Mr. President, I also want to speak for a few moments about the 
epidemic of gun violence in our country. Almost 2 weeks ago, a 19-year-
old armed with an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle entered Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas High School in Parkland, FL, and killed 14 students and 3 
teachers, and 14 others were injured. Time and again, we have seen this 
tragedy play out and time and again we are seeing Congress fail to act.
  Each year we lose 33,000 American lives due to gun violence. In 
instances of disease, illness, natural disaster, this level of 
widespread death would be met with immediate and meaningful action by 
Congress. Yet we continually abdicate our moral responsibility when it 
comes to gun violence prevention. We don't have to accept this epidemic 
of gun violence in our country. It is not preordained. It is 
preventable.
  So what should Congress do?
  First, we should allow public health researchers to study the causes 
of gun violence so they can find solutions to this public health 
crisis. Right now, zero dollars are spent at the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention on gun violence prevention research. That is 
because since 1996, an appropriations rider has prohibited the Centers 
for Disease Control from advocating or promoting gun control.
  Just last week, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar said 
he would not let the rider impede the CDC's research into the causes of 
gun violence. So there is no reason now not to fully fund this critical 
research agenda.
  I have introduced legislation to fund research into the causes and 
prevention of gun violence. My bill now has 32 cosponsors in the 
Senate. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to cosponsor 
this commonsense bill. It is long past time that we treat gun violence 
like the public health emergency it is, but we must also keep guns out 
of the hands of those who should not have them.
  Currently, anyone can use a handgun in America--whether it is the 
gun's owner, a thief, or, tragically, a young child, but it doesn't 
have to be this way. Technology exists now that can authorize handgun 
use only by its owner. In the 21st century, we have to use advances in 
technology to our advantage, and we can save lives by using it.
  That is why I used the opportunity to introduce smart gun legislation 
that will require all handguns manufactured in the United States to be 
personalized for operation only by the authorized user. That means, 
unless you are authorized by fingerprint or other technology, you will 
not be able to fire that handgun. If we can do it for an iPhone, we 
should be able to do it for a handgun so that if a child gets ahold of 
a gun, if it is not their thumb, they cannot fire it. If someone steals 
a gun from a home, it will not work because it will not be their thumb 
that is on the barrel of that gun. That is ultimately a way to reduce 
dramatically the amount of harm we see in our country.
  We must also ban these military-style assault weapons like the AR-15, 
which are the guns of choice for those who seek to inflict mass 
casualties on civilians. These are weapons that belong in combat, not 
in our communities.
  We must also pass legislation to ensure that all gun purchases 
include a background check. In fact, 97 percent of all Americans now 
support expanded background checks--97 percent of all Americans. No one 
should be able to purchase a gun through Facebook or Instagram without 
a background check. Instagram should not mean ``Instagun,'' with no 
background check. That is crazy. That is crazy. You can go on Instagram 
and buy a gun without a background check. That is crazy in America in 
2018.
  We have the capacity to quickly do background checks to be able to 
find out whether somebody should be able to purchase a gun. It is crazy 
not to have that kind of a system put in place.
  If you can buy a gun on Instagram, we should be able to check online 
whether or not that person, in fact, should be allowed legally to 
purchase the gun.
  Let's close the gun show loophole, as well as the one that allows 
someone on the terrorist watch list to purchase a weapon. Let's close 
the loophole that allows domestic abusers to buy guns. Let's close the 
loophole that allows straw purchasers to buy guns and flood our streets 
with them. Let's ban bump stocks. Let's repeal the Protection of Lawful 
Commerce in Arms Act, or PLCAA, and take away the gun manufacturers' 
immunity from civil liability. These are sensible steps.
  What is not sensible is hoping that thoughts and prayers will prevent 
the next shooting. This generation of young people recognize this 
truth, and that is why they are leading this children's crusade. They 
are picking up microphones and raising their voices. They are saying 
enough is enough. It is my hope that this might just be the movement 
that pushes Republican leaders, once and for all, to take action on gun 
violence and make the NRA stand for ``not relevant anymore'' in 
American politics. This is the time for that to take place on the 
Senate floor.
  This generation of young people is rising up, and they are demanding 
that we protect this country from the scourge of gun violence. Like 
generations past, this one is making the change they want to see in our 
society.
  So, to them, let me say: I hear you. I am with you, and I will fight 
with you to ensure that not one more student has to endure what you 
did, not one more person has to be damaged because we did not put the 
laws on the books that should have been there to prevent this harm from 
occurring. I will fight with you to ensure that this does not happen in 
one more school in our country.
  That is our challenge. That is the goal we should set. That is what 
should be the agenda here on the floor of the Senate in 2018.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arizona.


                      No-Fly List Gun Legislation

  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I rise today in support of bipartisan 
legislation aimed at ensuring that those individuals who are on the 
Department of Homeland Security's no-fly list are likewise not able to 
have access to guns. I just met with several of the students from the 
shooting at the school in Florida and heard the very compelling case 
they have made to take this issue seriously and do what we can on a 
commonsense basis to make it more difficult for those who shouldn't 
have guns to have guns.
  Regardless of what happened in Florida these past couple of weeks, 
this is a measure we should have taken before. It has been brought to 
the floor of the Senate, and it has received majority support here. I 
think it is simply common sense that someone who is not permitted to 
fly in this country and is considered by the Federal Government to be a 
potential threat to national security should not be allowed to purchase 
a firearm.
  The no-fly list and the selectee list that we are talking about is 
composed of those who are not allowed to fly. With the selectee list, 
it is those who require additional screening. These are both narrowly 
tailored, defined, targeted lists.
  This restriction would affect just a small number of people, all of 
whom would be afforded due process under the Constitution. Those who 
find themselves on either of these lists would have the authority to 
challenge that designation, and the onus would be on the government, 
not the individual; the onus would be on the government to justify the 
classification and to prove that they should not be allowed to purchase 
a firearm. These are strong, robust, due process protections that would 
make sure that these restrictions are constitutionally sound.
  This bill also adds another layer of safety for citizens from those 
who would do us harm, ensuring that anyone who has been denied the 
right to fly cannot purchase a weapon without at least undergoing 
additional scrutiny. It simply stands to reason that if we fear that 
someone may use our commercial airlines as a weapon or to

[[Page S1233]]

harm those on board, we should not allow that same person to purchase a 
weapon without additional scrutiny.
  I encourage my colleagues to review this bipartisan legislation and 
to join me, along with Senator Collins and a number of our colleagues 
here--a bipartisan group of Senators--in supporting this commonsense 
piece of legislation.
  I hope we will have a debate on some of these measures. I will be 
talking in the coming days about some of the other measures that we 
ought to take to make sure that we don't put guns in the hands of those 
who shouldn't have them.
  My heart goes out to those in Florida, and my vote will go here to 
measures that will make schools safer.
  I yield the floor.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today the Senate is voting to confirm 
Judge Elizabeth Branch to serve as a U.S. circuit court judge for the 
Eleventh Circuit. Judge Branch was favorably reported out of the 
Judiciary Committee on a 19-2 bipartisan vote. She has broad bipartisan 
support from her home State of Georgia. The American Bar Association 
rated Judge Branch as unanimously well-qualified. If the Senate 
confirms Judge Branch, as I am confident it will, she will be the 
fourth woman confirmed by the Senate to the Federal courts of appeals 
in the 115th Congress, three more than the one woman confirmed at this 
point in President Obama's first term.
  Judge Branch's judicial career and broad range of legal experiences 
have well prepared her to serve on the Eleventh Circuit. Judge Branch 
was appointed to the Georgia Court of Appeals in 2012. In her time on 
the appellate bench, she has participated in over 1,500 cases. Before 
joining the bench, Judge Branch spent several years in private 
practice. She also served in government, including her role as a top 
lawyer for the Department of Homeland Security. Judge Branch received 
her B.A. from Davidson College and her J.D. from Emory. After law 
school, Judge Branch clerked for Judge Owen Forrester on the U.S. 
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia.
  As I noted earlier, if confirmed, Judge Branch will become the fourth 
female circuit court judge confirmed under President Trump. Her 
confirmation puts her in good company, joining a class of first-rate 
female jurists and legal scholars. She will join a group that includes: 
Seventh Circuit Judge Amy Coney Barrett, a former professor at Notre 
Dame University Law School and law clerk to Justice Scalia; Tenth 
Circuit Judge Allison Eid, a former Colorado Supreme Court Justice and 
law clerk to Justice Thomas; and Sixth Circuit Judge Joan Larsen, 
another clerk of Justice Scalia and former Michigan Supreme Court 
justice. I am confident that Judge Branch will serve as an excellent 
addition to this outstanding class of female circuit court judges.
  Judge Branch's impressive background and bipartisan support suggest 
that she will be an excellent court of appeals judge. I am pleased to 
support her nomination today.
  Mr. FLAKE. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Flake). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Under the previous order, all postcloture time is expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Branch 
nomination?
  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The assistant bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. 
Rounds), and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan).
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) is 
necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Johnson). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 73, nays 23, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 38 Ex.]

                                YEAS--73

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young

                               NAYS-- 23

     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cortez Masto
     Duckworth
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Heinrich
     Markey
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Stabenow
     Udall
     Warren
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--4

     Jones
     McCain
     Rounds
     Sullivan
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



