

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H684]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





           LOOKING FORWARD TO THE STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today just hours 
before our 45th President, Donald Trump, will deliver his first State 
of the Union Address.
  Members of Congress and guests will fill this Chamber tonight to hear 
the President speak about a host of issues impacting America, from 
economic growth to trade deals and infrastructure investments, to 
immigration reform. I look forward to hearing the President speak about 
the administration's successes to date and the plans for the future.
  The President and the First Lady, Melania Trump, have invited 15 
guests to attend the speech tonight, including veterans, law 
enforcement officers, first responders, and families who have lost 
loved ones in the fight against the MS-13 street gang. All the guests 
in this Chamber tonight, invited by Members of both parties, represent 
a wide cross section of America, and I know that all have hope that our 
greatest days truly do lie ahead.
  Just weeks ago, the House passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act for the 
American people to get our economy moving again. In February, Americans 
will see and are beginning to see, today, more money in their 
paychecks. We delivered a fairer, simpler, pro-family Tax Code to give 
more money back to taxpayers and spur economic growth.
  As the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is implemented, we are hearing story 
after story about how this is already making a difference in millions 
of people's lives across the country. We have already seen positive 
results, and we look forward to hearing more from President Trump 
tonight on his vision for a safe, strong, and proud America.
  Hundreds of companies across the Nation are sharing the benefit of 
the GOP tax reform with their workers. They are raising wages, awarding 
bonuses, and increasing 401(k) matching contributions. I want to 
highlight just some of the companies in the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania that are investing in their employees:
  1st Summit Bank in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, provided a $1,000 bonus 
to all full-time employees on top of their 2017 year-end bonuses, 
raised its salary ranges, and increased its charitable giving budget by 
10 percent.
  AccuWeather of State College in my Fifth Congressional District 
provided special year-end bonuses to all employees over and above other 
compensation benefits and year-end bonuses to which employees may be 
entitled. Company leaders said: ``The bonuses are possible due to the 
company's robust financial performance in 2017 and strong confidence in 
the growing U.S. and global economy now that the tax bill has passed.''
  Fulton Financial in Lancaster raised its base wage to $12 per hour, 
awarded bonuses for its 3,700 employees, and is increasing charitable 
contributions by $2 million.
  Kish Bancorp in Belleville awarded $500 bonuses to part-time 
employees, $1,000 bonuses to full-time employees, is adding $10 million 
to capital expenditures over the next 3 years, and will raise their 
base wage.
  This is just a fraction of what is happening in the Commonwealth and 
in States across the Nation. The benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 
are just beginning to be seen, and I have great faith that the benefits 
will just continue to grow for the American people.
  Mr. Speaker, tonight I know the President will be talking about his 
record-setting accomplishments in his first year, how the policies of 
his administration are lifting all Americans and setting a foundation 
for building a safe, strong, and proud America. From jobs and the 
economy to his $1 trillion plan for rebuilding our depleted 
infrastructure, to important immigration reforms, I know that he will 
cover a lot of ground tonight and will speak from the heart.
  I also hope to hear about our national security, from rebuilding our 
military to the ongoing efforts to defeat terrorists around the world 
who try to harm America and Americans.
  I know the President's State of the Union Address will resonate with 
our American values and unite us with patriotism and greater 
opportunities. I welcome the President tonight to this Chamber, as well 
as the First Lady and all the guests, and I look forward to hearing his 
important message for the future of our country.

                          ____________________



