

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H2040-H2042]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DUNN (for himself and Mr. Panetta):
       H.R. 5379. A bill to amend the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 to update the 
     Biotechnology and Agricultural Trade Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 5380. A bill to establish a Commission on Securing our 
     Nation's Children, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, and Mr. Ross):
       H.R. 5381. A bill to reduce and minimize the credit, 
     guarantee, and insurance risk of all Federal Government 
     programs by transferring such risk to the private sector at 
     market terms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mr. Deutch, and 
             Mr. Buchanan):
       H.R. 5382. A bill to accelerate the income tax benefits for 
     charitable cash contributions for the relief of the families 
     of the slain or injured victims of the Marjory Stoneman 
     Douglas High School shooting, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself, Mr. Hastings, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Sires, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Moore, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Himes, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Ruiz, Mr. Takano, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Cummings, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Castor of Florida, and 
             Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 5383. A bill to prevent the purchase of ammunition by 
     prohibited purchasers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Takano, Mr. Nolan, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Crowley, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Gomez, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Lee, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. Moore, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Welch, and 
             Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 5384. A bill to establish State-Federal partnerships 
     to provide students the opportunity to attain higher 
     education at in-State public institutions of higher education 
     without debt, to provide Federal Pell Grant eligibility to 
     DREAMer students, to repeal suspension of eligibility under 
     the Higher Education Act of 1965 for drug-related offenses, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas (for himself and Mr. 
             Burgess):
       H.R. 5385. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize the program of payments to children's hospitals 
     that operate graduate medical education programs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa:
       H.R. 5386. A bill to ensure that taxpayers are provided 
     access to case files prior to conference with staff of the 
     Internal Revenue Service Office of Appeals; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Tonko, and Mr. 
             Grijalva):
       H.R. 5387. A bill to provide for the establishment of clean 
     technology consortia to enhance the economic, environmental, 
     and energy security of the United States by promoting 
     domestic development, manufacture, and deployment of clean 
     technologies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 5388. A bill to require certain entities who collect 
     and maintain personal information of individuals to secure 
     such information and to provide notice to such individuals in 
     the case of a breach of security involving such information, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr. Jones, and Mr. 
             Carbajal):
       H.R. 5389. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide that civilian service as a temporary employee after 
     December 31, 1988, may be creditable service under the 
     Federal Employees Retirement System, and

[[Page H2041]]

     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS:
       H.R. 5390. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to amend the process by which students with certain special 
     circumstances apply for Federal financial aid; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Serrano, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Kilmer, 
             Ms. Barragan, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Takano, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Price 
             of North Carolina, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Veasey, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Ben Ray 
             Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Cole, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mrs. Lowey, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Moore, Mr. Soto, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. Clay, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Ruppersberger, 
             Mr. McEachin, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. McGovern, Mr. Foster, Mr. O'Halleran, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Courtney, Ms. Lee, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Adams, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Visclosky, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Stefanik, 
             Mr. Vela, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Plaskett, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. McNerney, Ms. 
             Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Evans, Mr. Pallone, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Costa, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Jones, Mr. Correa, Mr. Crist, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Peterson, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Norcross, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, and Mr. Sires):
       H.R. 5391. A bill to provide for the compensation of 
     Federal employees furloughed during a Government shutdown; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTER of Texas:
       H.R. 5392. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     enter into memoranda of understanding with State and local 
     prosecuting authorities concerning the adjudication of 
     criminal offenses committed by minors; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, Mr. Stivers, and Mrs. Beatty):
       H.R. 5393. A bill to reauthorize the United States 
     Interagency Council on Homelessness, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania:
       H.R. 5394. A bill to amend the reporting requirements under 
     the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself, Mr. Zeldin, 
             Mr. King of New York, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Meeks, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Faso, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Reed, Mr. Katko, and Mr. 
             Higgins of New York):
       H.R. 5395. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 116 Main Street in 
     Dansville, New York, as the ``Staff Sergeant Alexandria 
     Gleason-Morrow Post Office Building''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mr. 
             Capuano):
       H.R. 5396. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow graduate students to exclude tuition reductions 
     from gross income; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Courtney, and Mr. Himes):
       H.R. 5397. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish, at the 
     request of an eligible veteran, nursing home care and 
     hospital care at State licensed or certified residential care 
     facilities; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Crist, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. King 
             of New York, and Ms. Jayapal):
       H.R. 5398. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     increase the age at which a rifle or shotgun may be acquired 
     from a federally licensed firearms dealer, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. GABBARD (for herself, Mr. Garrett, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Mrs. Radewagen, Ms. Hanabusa, and Mr. Young of 
             Alaska):
       H.R. 5399. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to clarify that grants made pursuant to the Urban Area 
     Security Initiative and the State Homeland Security Grant 
     Program may be used to increase the preparedness of high-risk 
     State, local, territorial, and tribal governments against 
     weapons of mass destruction and biological and chemical 
     attacks, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Meadows, 
             Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Conaway, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Perry, 
             Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Flores, 
             Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Harris, Mr. Sanford, and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 5400. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of Education 
     and the Attorney General from encouraging certain policies or 
     agreements between elementary and secondary schools and local 
     law enforcement agencies; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Heck, Ms. Velazquez, and Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 5401. A bill to amend title 41, United States Code, to 
     require executive agencies to give priority to entities with 
     on-site child care for employees in awarding certain 
     contracts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 5402. A bill to require the establishment of Federal 
     customer service standards, to improve the service and 
     customer experience provided by Federal agencies, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 5403. A bill to establish a competitive bidding 
     process for the relocation of the headquarters of Executive 
     agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
       H.R. 5404. A bill to define the dollar as a fixed weight of 
     gold; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. ROUZER:
       H.R. 5405. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     provide a limited exception to the prohibition on price loss 
     coverage payments or agriculture risk coverage payments when 
     the sum of the base acres on a farm is 10 acres or less; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. Sensenbrenner):
       H.R. 5406. A bill to amend section 1105 of title 31, United 
     States Code, to require that the annual budget submissions of 
     the Presidents include the total dollar amount requested for 
     intelligence or intelligence related activities of each 
     element of the Government engaged in such activities; to the 
     Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Posey, 
             Mr. Fleischmann, Ms. Tenney, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. King of 
             Iowa, Mr. Flores, Mrs. Wagner, and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 5407. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to develop educational materials relating to human 
     trafficking in schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H. Con. Res. 116. Concurrent resolution providing for a 
     correction in the enrollment of H.R. 1625; considered and 
     agreed to.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Khanna, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H. Res. 797. A resolution recognizing the contributions of 
     the Montagnard indigenous tribespeople of the Central 
     Highlands of Vietnam to the United States Armed Forces during 
     the Vietnam War, and condemning the ongoing violation of 
     human rights by the Government of the Socialist Republic of 
     Vietnam; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H. Res. 798. A resolution commemorating the 50th 
     anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, 
     Jr., through the teaching of nonviolence; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             Capuano, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Castro of Texas, Mr. Correa, Mr. Cuellar, Mrs. Davis 
             of California, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Doggett, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gomez, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr.

[[Page H2042]]

             Huffman, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. Matsui, 
             Ms. Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             Soto, Ms. Speier, Mr. Takano, Ms. Titus, Mr. Vargas, 
             Ms. Velazquez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Vela, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Costa, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Peters, and Ms. Gabbard):
       H. Res. 799. A resolution recognizing March 31 as ``Cesar 
     Chavez Day'' in honor of the accomplishments and legacy of 
     Cesar Estrada Chavez; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. COOPER:
       H. Res. 800. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to require the House to replace the 
     Speaker on the first day of the second session of a Congress 
     if the most recent fiscal year ended with a significant 
     Federal budget deficit, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. GARRETT:
       H. Res. 801. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to prohibit the consideration of 
     legislation in the House unless the text of the legislation 
     which will be considered has been made publicly available in 
     electronic form for a mandatory minimum review period; to the 
     Committee on Rules.
           By Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas (for herself and 
             Mr. Blumenauer):
       H. Res. 802. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of World Water Day; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, and Natural Resources, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself and Mrs. Davis of 
             California):
       H. Res. 803. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the weeks of March 25, 2018, through April 7, 
     2018, as National Young Audiences Arts for Learning Weeks; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H. Res. 804. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the former Yugoslav Republic of 
     Macedonia should work within the framework of the United 
     Nations process and in good faith with Greece to achieve 
     longstanding United States and United Nations policy goals by 
     finding a mutually acceptable name that must apply for all 
     internal and international uses (erga omnes), for the former 
     Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             Gene Green of Texas, Mr. McGovern, and Ms. Granger):
       H. Res. 805. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Public Health Week; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.

                          ____________________



