

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S255-S256]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I have 12 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 2018, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Jerome 
H. Powell, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, Randal Quarles, of Colorado, to be a Member of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Brian D. 
Montgomery, of Texas, and Robert Hunter Kurtz, of Virginia, both to be 
an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and David J. 
Ryder, of New Jersey, to be Director of the Mint, Department of the 
Treasury; to be immediately followed by a hearing to examine combating 
money laundering and other forms of illicit finance, focusing on 
Administration perspectives on reforming and strengthening Bank Secrecy 
Act enforcement.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 
2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Terrorism and Social 
Media: Is big Tech Doing Enough?''


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``America's Water Infrastructure Needs and 
Challenges: Federal Panel.''


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a 
hearing on revision to the subcommittee assignments for the 115th 
Congress and on the following nominations: the Honorable Alex Michael 
Azar II, of Indiana, to be Secretary of Health and Human Services and 
Mr. Kevin K. McAleenan, of Hawaii, to be Commissioner of the United 
States Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a 
hearing on the following nominations: Dennis Shea, of Virginia, to be a 
Deputy United States Trade Representative (Geneva Office), with the 
rank of Ambassador, and C. J. Mahoney, of Kansas, to be a Deputy United 
States Trade Representative (Investment, Services, Labor, Environment, 
Africa, China, and the Western Hemisphere), with the rank of 
Ambassador.


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 
2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Facing 21st Century 
Public Health Threats: Our Nation's Preparedness and Response 
Capabilities, Part I.''


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
January 17, 2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Unintended Consequences: Medicaid and the Opioid Epidemic.''


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Breaking New Ground in Agribusiness 
Opportunities in Indian Country.''


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``The State of the VA: A Progress Report on 
Implementing 2017 VA Reform Legislation.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, January 17, 2018, at 11:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Michael K. Atkinson, of 
Maryland, to be Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, and 
Jason Klitenic, of Maryland, to be General Counsel, both of the Office 
of the Director of National Intelligence.

[[Page S256]]

  

                          ____________________



