

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1954-S1955]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SENATE RESOLUTION 448--DESIGNATING MARCH 2018 AS ``NATIONAL WOMEN'S 
                            HISTORY MONTH''

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Murkowski, Ms. 
Collins, Mr. Carper, Ms. Warren, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Reed, Ms. Baldwin, 
Mr. Kaine, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Brown, Mr. King, Mr. Coons, Ms. Hirono, 
Mrs. Ernst, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Markey, Mr. Bennet, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
Booker, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Harris, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. 
Smith, and Ms. Cantwell) submitted the following resolution; which was 
considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 448

       Whereas National Women's History Month recognizes and 
     spreads awareness of the importance of women in the history 
     of the United States;
       Whereas throughout the history of the United States, 
     whether in the home, their workplace, school, the courts, or 
     in wartime, women have fought for themselves, their families, 
     and all people of the United States;
       Whereas, even from the early days of the history of the 
     United States, Abigail Adams urged her husband to ``Remember 
     the ladies'' when representatives met for the Continental 
     Congress in 1776;
       Whereas women were particularly important in the 
     establishment of early charitable, philanthropic, and 
     cultural institutions in the United States;
       Whereas women led the efforts to secure suffrage and equal 
     opportunity for women, and also served in the abolitionist 
     movement, the emancipation movement, labor movements, civil 
     rights movements, and other causes to create a more fair and 
     just society for all;
       Whereas suffragists wrote, marched, were arrested, and 
     ultimately succeeded in achieving the enactment of the 19th 
     Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, section 1 
     of which provides that ``The right of citizens of the United 
     States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United 
     States or by any state on account of sex'', as well as the 
     Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.), which 
     extended the protection of the right to vote to women of 
     color and language minorities;
       Whereas women have been and continue to step up as leaders 
     in the forefront of social change efforts, business, science, 
     government, math, art, literature, music, film, athletics, 
     and more;
       Whereas women now represent approximately half of the 
     workforce of the United States;
       Whereas women once were routinely barred from attending 
     medical schools of the United States, but now are enrolling 
     in medical schools of the United States at higher numbers 
     than men;
       Whereas women previously were turned away from law school, 
     but now represent approximately half of law students in the 
     United States;
       Whereas women have been vital to the mission of the Armed 
     Forces since the American Revolution, serving in volunteer 
     and enlisted positions, with more than 200,000 active-duty 
     servicewomen and 2,000,000 veterans representing every branch 
     of service;
       Whereas more than 10,000,000 women own businesses in the 
     United States;
       Whereas Jeannette Rankin of Montana was the first woman 
     elected to the House of Representatives in 1916 and Hattie 
     Wyatt Caraway of Arkansas was the first woman elected to the 
     United States Senate in 1932;
       Whereas Margaret Chase Smith of Maine was the first woman 
     to serve in both houses of Congress;
       Whereas, in the 115th Congress, a record 22 women serve as 
     United States Senators, and 89 women serve in the House of 
     Representatives;
       Whereas President Jimmy Carter issued the first 
     Presidential Proclamation designating March 2 through 8, 
     1980, as ``National Women's History Week'';
       Whereas, in 1987, a bipartisan group of Senators introduced 
     the first joint resolution to pass Congress designating 
     ``Women's History Month'';
       Whereas President Ronald Reagan issued the first ``Women's 
     History Month'' Presidential Proclamation in 1987; and
       Whereas, despite the advancements of women in the United 
     States, much remains to be done to ensure that women realize 
     their full potential as equal members of society in the 
     United States: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates March 2018 as ``National Women's History 
     Month'';
       (2) recognizes the celebration of ``National Women's 
     History Month'' as a time to reflect on the many notable 
     contributions that women have made to the United States;
       (3) urges the people of the United States to observe 
     ``National Women's History Month'' with appropriate programs 
     and activities.

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today in honor of Women's 
History Month to reflect on the remarkable contributions women have 
made to the United States and the challenges we must still face today 
to ensure women are able to realize their full potential as equal 
partners in American society.
  For over 30 years, we have set aside this month to pay tribute to the 
amazing women who have fought tirelessly for themselves, their 
families, and all Americans.
  I look back on their courage with great admiration and continue to be 
inspired by those who blazed the trail for women like me. When I first 
came to Washington in 1992, they called it the ``Year of the Woman,'' 
with four women being elected to the Senate. Today, we have a record 22 
women serving in the United States Senate and 89 women serving in the 
House of Representatives.
  Even at record levels, women only account for about 20 percent of the 
115th Congress, which falls far short of the 51 percent of our nation's 
population that are women.
  Still, women have proven themselves as true political forces and I 
have great hope for the next generations of women who will also lead 
the way in building a better California and United States.
  Women have been and continue to step up as leaders in the forefront 
of social change efforts, business, science, government, math, art, 
literature, music, film, athletics, and more.
  Today, half of our workforce is made up of women and more than 10 
million American businesses are women owned.
  Where women were once turned away from attending medical and law 
schools, enrollment numbers are now almost evenly split between men and 
women.
  Women have risen to the top of Fortune 500 companies and fill the 
domes of capitols and the halls of universities.
  Women now also have a larger role in the U.S. Armed Forces, with more 
than 200,000 active-duty servicewomen proudly serving and 2 million 
veterans representing every branch of service.

[[Page S1955]]

  My utmost respect goes out to these women warriors who selflessly 
answered the call to duty and served with honor, courage, and 
distinction.
  As a United States Senator proudly representing California, I have 
seen first-hand some of the millions of outstanding women who achieve 
greatness.
  As we celebrate the stories of American women who defied all odds to 
accomplish the unprecedented, we must also honor their legacies by 
continuing to defend the rights they worked so hard to achieve.
  We have fought together on so many issues that affect women, 
families, and all Americans. During this month, I invite all women to 
pledge to continue this fight together and never relent on these 
important issues.
  Thank you Mr. President and I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



