

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1844-S1845]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Bennet, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Stabenow, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Harris, Mr. Kaine, 
             Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Booker, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Murray, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Mr. Coons, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Brown, Mr. Warner, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Mr. Carper, Mr. Reed, Ms. Smith, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Leahy, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             Cardin, and Mr. Peters):
       S. 2572. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to address and take action to prevent 
     bullying and harassment of students; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 2573. A bill to amend the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act to reauthorize the appropriate technology 
     transfer for rural areas program; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms. Smith):
       S. 2574. A bill to provide rental assistance to low-income 
     tenants of certain multifamily rural housing projects, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 2575. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for treatment of audiologists as physicians 
     for purposes of furnishing audiology services under the 
     Medicare program, to improve access to the audiology services 
     available for coverage

[[Page S1845]]

     under the Medicare program and to enable beneficiaries to 
     have their choice of a qualified audiologist to provide such 
     services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 2576. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to conduct a proceeding to determine whether 
     certain activities by licensees of the Commission are 
     undertakings under division A of subtitle III of title 54, 
     United States Code, or major Federal actions under the 
     National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; to the Committee 
     on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Heller, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 2577. A bill to reauthorize programs authorized under 
     the Debbie Smith Act of 2004; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Duckworth, 
             and Mr. Peters):
       S. 2578. A bill to amend title 13, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Commerce to provide advanced notice 
     to Congress before changing any questions on the decennial 
     census, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. Markey, and Ms. 
             Baldwin):
       S. 2579. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize and expand a program of surveillance and 
     education, carried out by the Centers of Disease Control and 
     Prevention, regarding infections associated with injection 
     drug use; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Bennet, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Coons, Ms. Cortez 
             Masto, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Harris, Mr. Markey, Mrs. Murray, and Ms. Smith):
       S. 2580. A bill to amend title 13, United States Code, to 
     make clear that each decennial census, as required for the 
     apportionment of Representatives in Congress among the 
     several States, shall tabulate the total number of persons in 
     each State, and to provide that no information regarding 
     United States citizenship or immigration status may be 
     elicited in any such census; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



