

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1786]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             WOMEN'S HEALTH

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, today I wish to speak on the important 
topic of women's health, which has been under attack by the Trump 
administration.
  Through its policies and the actions of its officials, the Trump 
administration has undermined women's health at every opportunity.
  In the first year of the Trump administration, we have seen attempts 
to block access to Planned Parenthood, restrict women's access to birth 
control, legislation to ban certain medical procedures, the creation of 
new government offices to undermine women's healthcare, and judges 
nominated who openly oppose women's privacy rights.
  Scott Lloyd, the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, ORR, 
is the perfect illustration of this deeply disturbing trend.
  Federal court documents and extensive media reports show that Mr. 
Lloyd has used his official office to prevent unaccompanied minors at 
ORR shelters from accessing legally available reproductive healthcare.
  In one case, a 17-year-old young woman, referred to as Jane Doe, was 
transferred to an ORR shelter after crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. 
While in government custody, Jane Doe discovered she was pregnant and 
sought access to an abortion. She satisfied all requirements under 
Texas law and secured her own funds to pay for the procedure. In spite 
of this, ORR officials repeatedly blocked her from accessing care. Jane 
Doe went to court and was granted approval to obtain the procedure. 
Nevertheless, the Trump administration's Department of Justice cruelly 
appealed the decision, alleging that the government has an interest in 
blocking her personal decision.
  Since Jane Doe's case, it has been uncovered that Trump 
administration officials have directly intervened in other similar 
cases. There are reports that Mr. Lloyd has denied young women access 
to their lawyers. Additionally, he has implemented policies that 
violate young women's medical privacy rights. It is also concerning 
that, as someone with no medical expertise or training, Mr. Lloyd has 
personally pressured young women about their medical options. In court 
documents, Mr. Lloyd acknowledged that he has never approved a request 
for the procedure and even admitted that he has denied such requests in 
the cases of rape victims. This is shocking, particularly considering 
that many of the young women who come into ORR custody have fled sexual 
and gender-based violence in their home countries.
  On top of that, some of these young women go through harrowing 
experiences along their journey to the United States, during which they 
are at risk of being trafficked, kidnapped, and raped. Blocking them 
from making their own determinations about their health and bodies only 
adds to the trauma they have already experienced.
  In light of Mr. Lloyd's shocking actions, I have called on him to 
resign.
  I find it appalling that the Trump administration believes women--
undocumented or otherwise--do not have the right to control their own 
bodies and make their own healthcare decisions. Young women do not lose 
their right to make their own healthcare decisions just because they 
are in government custody.
  ORR is responsible for protecting the well-being of the most 
vulnerable people: those who have been tortured, children who arrive in 
the country alone and without a parent, and individuals fleeing 
persecution.
  It is imperative that the leader of this office uphold this mission, 
rather than advancing his own personal, political agenda. We have an 
obligation to treat young women in government custody with the dignity 
and respect they deserve.
  The Trump administration needs to stop attacking women and start 
recognizing their right to control their own bodies, medical decisions, 
and destiny.

                          ____________________



