

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2040-S2042]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 130

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 130, a bill 
to require enforcement against misbranded milk alternatives.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to 
amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving 
through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and to require the provision of advance electronic 
information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry 
to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to amend 
titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States to 
provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 448

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) and the Senator from

[[Page S2041]]

New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of S. 448, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for 
treatment of clinical psychologists as physicians for purposes of 
furnishing clinical psychologist services under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                S. 1006

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1006, a bill to prohibit 
discrimination on the basis of sex, gender identity, and sexual 
orientation, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1086

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1086, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to remove the prohibition on 
eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select of members of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces who are eligible to enroll in a health 
benefits plan under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1112, a bill 
to support States in their work to save and sustain the health of 
mothers during pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to 
eliminate disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related 
and pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve 
health care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1250

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1250, a bill to amend the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act to improve the recruitment and 
retention of employees in the Indian Health Service, restore 
accountability in the Indian Health Service, improve health services, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1386

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1386, a bill to permit 
employees to request changes to their work schedules without fear of 
retaliation and to ensure that employers consider these requests, and 
to require employers to provide more predictable and stable schedules 
for employees in certain occupations with evidence of unpredictable and 
unstable scheduling practices that negatively affect employees, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1518

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1518, a bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to 
enter into contracts with industry intermediaries for purposes of 
promoting the development of and access to apprenticeships in the 
technology sector, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1935

  At the request of Mr. Daines, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1935, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat Indian 
tribal governments in the same manner as State governments for certain 
Federal tax purposes, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1945, a bill to regulate 
large capacity ammunition feeding devices.


                                S. 2235

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2235, a bill to establish a 
tiered hiring preference for members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2236, a bill to 
require covered discrimination and covered harassment awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered discrimination and covered harassment complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2416

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) 
and the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 2416, a bill to amend titles 5, 10, and 37, United States Code, 
to ensure that an order to serve on active duty under section 12304b of 
title 10, United States Code, is treated the same as other orders to 
serve on active duty for determining the eligibility of members of the 
uniformed services for certain benefits.


                                S. 2430

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2430, a bill to provide a permanent appropriation of 
funds for the payment of death gratuities and related benefits for 
survivors of deceased members of the uniformed services in event of any 
period of lapsed appropriations.


                                S. 2471

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2471, a bill to amend title 18, United States 
Code, to improve the compassionate release process of the Bureau of 
Prisons, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2515

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2515, a bill to amend the 
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act to provide 
further self-governance by Indian Tribes, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2578

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2578, a bill to amend 
title 13, United States Code, to require the Secretary of Commerce to 
provide advanced notice to Congress before changing any questions on 
the decennial census, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2584

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2584, a bill to end 
discrimination based on actual or perceived sexual orientation or 
gender identity in public schools, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2635

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2635, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act and the Controlled Substances Import and 
Export Act to modify the offenses relating to fentanyl, and for other 
purposes.


                              S. RES. 355

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 355, a resolution 
improving procedures for the consideration of nominations in the 
Senate.


                              S. RES. 407

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the Senator 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 407, 
a resolution recognizing the critical work of human rights defenders in 
promoting human rights, the rule of law, democracy, and good 
governance.


                              S. RES. 424

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 424, a resolution 
honoring the 25th anniversary of the National Guard Youth Challenge 
Program.

[[Page S2042]]

  

                          ____________________



