

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1447-S1448]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-20, 
     concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of the United Arab Emirates for 
     defense articles and services estimated to cost $270.4 
     million. After this letter is delivered to your office, we 
     plan to issue a news release to notify the public of this 
     proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                Charles W. Hooper,
                                Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-20

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of the United Arab 
     Emirates (UAE).
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $240.0 million.
       Other $30.4 million.
       Total $270.4 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Three hundred (300) AIM-9X-2 Sidewinder Block II Missiles.
       Forty (40) AIM-9X-2 Sidewinder Captive Air Training 
     Missiles (CATMs).
       Thirty (30) AIM-9X-2 Sidewinder Block II Tactical Guidance 
     Units.
       Fifteen (15) AIM-9X-2 CATM Guidance Units.
       Non-MDE includes: Also includes containers, spares, support 
     equipment and missile support, U.S. Government and contractor 
     technical assistance and other related logistics support, and 
     other associated support equipment and services.
       (iv) Military Department: Navy (ABJ).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: AE-P-AAL (AIM-9M); and AE-
     P-ABA (AIM-9-X2 (previously notified and offered but the 
     customer allowed the LOA to expire)).
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: March 7, 2018.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

Government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE)--AIM-9X-2 Sidewinder Block 
                              II Missiles

       The UAE has requested the possible sale of three hundred 
     (300) AIM-9X-2 Sidewinder Block II missiles, forty (40) AIM-
     9X-2 Sidewinder Captive Air Training Missiles (CATMs), thirty 
     (30) AIM-9X-2 Block II Tactical guidance units, fifteen (15) 
     AIM-9X-2 CATM guidance units, containers, spares, support 
     equipment and missile support, U.S. Government and contractor 
     technical assistance and other related logistics support, and 
     other associated support equipment and services. The total 
     estimated cost is $270.4 million.
       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and 
     national security objectives of the United States by helping 
     to improve the security of a friendly country which has been, 
     and continues to be, an important force for political 
     stability and economic progress in the Middle East.
       This potential sale will improve the UAE's capability to 
     meet current and future threats and provide an enhanced 
     capability for its Air Force. The UAE will use the enhanced 
     capability to strengthen its homeland defense. The UAE will 
     have no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed 
     forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support does not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor will be Raytheon Missile Systems 
     Company, Tucson, AZ. There are no known offset agreements 
     proposed in connection with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require U.S. 
     Government or contractor representatives to travel to the UAE 
     on a temporary basis for program technical support and 
     management oversight.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-20

  Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to Section 
                36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The AIM-9X-2 Sidewinder Block II missile represents a 
     substantial increase in missile acquisition and kinematics 
     performance over the AIM-9M and replaces the AIM-9X Block I 
     missile configuration. The missile includes a high off-
     boresight seeker, enhanced countermeasure rejection 
     capability, low drag/high angle of attack airframe and the 
     ability to integrate the Helmet Mounted Cueing System. The 
     software algorithms are the most sensitive portion of the 
     AIM-9X-2 missile. The software continues to be modified via a 
     Pre-Planned Product Improvement (P\3\I) program in order to 
     improve its counter-countermeasure capabilities. No software 
     source code or algorithms will be released. The missile is 
     classified as CONFIDENTIAL.
       2. The AIM-9X-2 Sidewinder Block II missile will result in 
     the transfer of sensitive technology and information. The 
     equipment, hardware, and documentation are classified 
     CONFIDENTIAL. The software and operational performance are 
     classified SECRET. The seeker/guidance control section and 
     the target detector are CONFIDENTIAL and contain sensitive 
     state-of-the-art technology. Manuals and technical 
     documentation that are necessary or support operational use 
     and organizational management are classified up to SECRET. 
     Performance and operating logic of the counter-
     countermeasures circuits are classified SECRET. The hardware, 
     software, and data identified are classified to protect 
     vulnerabilities, design and performance parameters and 
     similar critical information.
       3. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures that 
     might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the 
     development of a system with similar advanced capabilities.
       4. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal have been authorized for release and export to 
     the Government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
                                  ____

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-41, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Qatar for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $197 million. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Greg M. Kausner,
        (For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant General, USA Director).
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-41

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Qatar.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment: * $1 million.
       Other: $196 million.
       Total: $197 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase: The Government of 
     Qatar has requested to purchase equipment and support to 
     upgrade the Qatari Emiri Air Force's (QEAF) Air Operation 
     Center (AOC), to include Link 16 network and classified 
     networks integration, to enhance the performance of 
     integrated air defense planning and provide US-Qatari systems 
     interoperability.
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): One (1) Multifunctional 
     Information Distribution System (MIDS) Low Volume Terminal 
     (LVT).
       Non-MDE: Also included are Global Positioning System (GPS) 
     Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Module (SAASM) Chips, 
     Simple Key Loaders (SKL), High Assurance Internet Protocol 
     Encryptors (HAIPE),

[[Page S1448]]

     Ground Support System (GSS) components for Link-16, as well 
     as the necessary infrastructure construction, integration, 
     installation, and sustainment services, cybersecurity 
     services, technical and support facilities, COMSEC support, 
     secure communications equipment, encryption devices, software 
     development, spare and repair parts, support and test 
     equipment, publications and technical documentation, security 
     certification and accreditation, personnel training and 
     training equipment, U.S. Government and contractor 
     engineering, technical and logistics support services; and 
     other related elements of logistical and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (QA-D-DAG)
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: N/A
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: March 7, 2018.
       As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

          Qatar--Upgrade of Qatar Air Operations Center (AOC)

       The Government of Qatar has requested to purchase equipment 
     and support to upgrade the Qatari Emiri Air Force's (QEAF) 
     Air Operation Center (AOC) to enhance the performance of 
     integrated air defense planning and provide US-Qatari systems 
     interoperability. This sale includes: one (1) Multifunctional 
     Information Distribution System (MIDS) Low Volume Terminal 
     (LVT), Global Positioning System (GPS) Selective Availability 
     Anti-Spoofing Module (SAASM) chips, Simple Key Loaders (SKL), 
     High Assurance Internet Protocol Encryptors (HAIPE), Ground 
     Support System (GSS) components for Link-16 as well as the 
     necessary infrastructure construction, integration, 
     installation, and sustainment services, cybersecurity 
     services, technical and support facilities, COMSEC support, 
     secure communications equipment, encryption devices, software 
     development, spare and repair parts, support and test 
     equipment, publications and technical documentation, security 
     certification and accreditation, personnel training and 
     training equipment, U.S. Government and contractor 
     engineering, technical and logistics support services; and 
     other related elements of logistical and program support. The 
     estimated cost is $197 million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security of the United States by helping to 
     improve the security of a friendly country that has been, and 
     continues to be, an important force for political stability 
     and economic progress in the Persian Gulf region. Our mutual 
     defense interests anchor our relationship and the Qatar Emiri 
     Air Force (QEAF) plays a predominant role in Qatar's defense.
       The upgrade of the AOC will support the defensive 
     capability of Qatar. The proposed sale will help strengthen 
     Qatar's capability to counter current and future threats in 
     the region and reduce dependence on U.S. forces. Qatar will 
     have no difficulty absorbing the required equipment and 
     capability into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor will be Raytheon, Waltham, MA. Qatar 
     typically requests offsets. Any offset agreement will be 
     defined in negotiations between Qatar and the contractor.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require the 
     assignment of approximately five (5) additional U.S. 
     Government and approximately fifteen (15) contractor 
     representatives to Qatar.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-41

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The Multifunctional Information Distribution System-Low 
     Volume Terminal (MIDS-LVT) is an advanced Link-16 command, 
     control, communications, and intelligence (C3I) system 
     incorporating high-capacity, jam-resistant, digital 
     communication links is used for exchange of near real-time 
     tactical information, including both data and voice, among 
     air, ground, and sea elements. The terminal hardware, 
     publications, performance specifications, operational 
     capability, parameters, vulnerabilities to countermeasures, 
     and software documentation are classified CONFIDENTIAL. The 
     classified information to be provided consists of that which 
     is necessary for the operation, maintenance, and repair 
     (through intermediate level) of the data link terminal, 
     installed systems, and related software.
       2. A Global Positioning System (GPS) Selective Availability 
     Anti-Spoofing Module (SAASM) deploys anti-spoofing measures 
     using cryptography to protect authorized users from false 
     satellite signals generated by an enemy. Information 
     revealing SAASM implementation details such as number or 
     length of keying variables, circuit diagrams, specific 
     quantitative measures, functions, and capabilities are 
     classified SECRET.
       3. Software, hardware, and other data/information, which is 
     classified or sensitive, is reviewed prior to release to 
     protect system vulnerabilities, design data, and performance 
     parameters. Some end-item hardware, software, and other data 
     identified above are classified at the CONFIDENTIAL and 
     SECRET//RELEASABLE TO QATAR level. Potential compromise of 
     these systems is controlled through management of the basic 
     software programs of highly sensitive systems and software-
     controlled weapon systems on a case-by-case basis.
       4. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures that 
     might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the 
     development of a system with similar or advanced 
     capabilities.
       5. A determination has been made that Qatar can provide 
     substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive 
     technology being released as the U.S. Government. This 
     proposed sale is necessary to further the U.S. foreign policy 
     and national security objectives outlined in the Policy 
     Justification.
       6. All defense articles and services listed on this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Qatar.

                          ____________________



