

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H3102]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           QUESTIONS OF WAR SHOULD BE BROUGHT BEFORE CONGRESS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Al Green) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, once again, I rise because I love 
my country. I love what it stands for. I love the concept of government 
of the people, by the people, for the people.
  And, Mr. Speaker, because I believe in this and because I believe in 
the Constitution of the United States of America, I rise to announce 
that I do not approve of nor do I support of the notion that we should 
have war by Twitter, that we should announce that we are going to war 
with a tweet. I disapprove. I do not support it.
  Questions of war should be brought before the Congress of the United 
States of America for our input, our debate, and our vote. It is easy 
to say what you would do when you don't have to vote to do it. I 
believe Congress has a responsibility, a duty, and an obligation to 
stand up in times like these and make our positions known on questions 
of war and peace.
  This is the Congress of the United States of America. This is our 
responsibility, and, Mr. Speaker, I am having my staff, as I speak now, 
tweet out my opposition to that tweet. I want to make sure the people 
that read Twitter are aware of my position.
  I don't know what others will do, but I know this: I am making my 
demand that Congress have this opportunity to have input.
  And, Mr. Speaker, because I love my country, because I love the 
Constitution, I believe that, if this President should fire Mr. 
Mueller, Mr. Speaker, he should be impeached. Whether he will be or not 
is a question to be decided in the House of Representatives, but I can 
guarantee you this: there will be articles of impeachment if he fires 
Mr. Mueller. Whether someone else will bring them or not, I do not 
know. But if no one else does, there will be articles of impeachment 
because I will bring them.
  I love my country. I am not going to watch this President decimate 
the Constitution.
  I love my country. We didn't act when he fired Comey. We should act 
if he fires Mueller, and I plan to take that action.
  I say this in closing: We have seen, under this President, a 
deterioration of respect for the rule of law. This country is great 
because no one is above the law. Are we now going to allow the 
President to be beyond justice?
  This is a moment in time, a crucial, critical moment in time for 
every person to determine whether they are going to be the true 
patriots that we claim to be. This is our moment. Let us stand up for 
the Constitution and the American people.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



