

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1158]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO CECILE RICHARDS

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to recognize 
the inspiring and dedicated work of Cecile Richards, who has recently 
announced she is stepping down as president of Planned Parenthood after 
12 years.
  Throughout her tenure as president of Planned Parenthood, Cecile has 
been a passionate advocate for healthcare for women and men across the 
country. Despite the constant attacks leveled at Planned Parenthood in 
recent years, the organization managed to grow stronger with Cecile at 
the helm. Today Planned Parenthood has more volunteers, supporters, and 
donors than it ever has had before. None of that would have been 
possible without Cecile's exemplary leadership.
  Millions of Americans depend on Planned Parenthood for their 
healthcare, and for many, Planned Parenthood is their only source of 
care. As president, Cecile maintained Planned Parenthood's mission, and 
she never stopped fighting for the millions of American women and men--
including tens of thousands of Vermonters--that have trusted and 
depended on Planned Parenthood for their basic healthcare needs, 
including annual health exams, cervical and breast cancer tests, and 
HIV screenings. Because of her dedication to helping low-income women, 
she worked to ensure free birth control coverage was included in the 
Affordable Care Act. Cecile is leaving as president when the teen 
pregnancy rate is at a historical low and unintended pregnancies 
overall are at a 30-year low. None of that would have been possible 
without Cecile's relentless determination to her mission of helping 
those that do not have the resources to help themselves.
  The true measurement of Cecile's work at Planned Parenthood goes 
beyond the statistics, however, for she understood that the 
organization's strength comes from the voices of those who believe 
access to healthcare for all women is a right. Those who up until 
recently believed that there was nothing they could do or say that 
would make a difference. Those who simply went on with their lives as 
if they had no other options. It is those same people who have taken to 
the streets--in Washington, in Vermont, and across the world--to let 
their voices be heard. Cecile's unwavering passion and commitment to 
advocating for these voices is one of her greatest strengths as a 
leader.
  While Planned Parenthood is stronger than ever, Cecile leaves a 
legacy that will be hard to follow. Her ability to lead with grace and 
courage has given hope to those who need it most. She has truly been 
inspiration to us all.
  Marcelle and I wish Cecile Richards all the best as she moves into 
the next chapter.

                          ____________________



