

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1219-S1221]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to 
amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States 
to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to 
home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare 
program.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 751, a bill to 
amend title 54, United States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for 
the use of amounts in a National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund 
to address the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Rhode Island 
(Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with 
disabilities to save additional

[[Page S1220]]

amounts in their ABLE accounts above the current annual maximum 
contribution if they work and earn income.


                                 S. 834

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith), the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator 
from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 834, a bill to authorize the 
appropriation of funds to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention for conducting or supporting research on firearms safety or 
gun violence prevention.
  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
834, supra.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for certain rural 
health clinic and Federally qualified health center services furnished 
to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 982

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 982, a bill to amend 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to require mandatory 
reporting of incidents of child abuse or neglect, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) 
and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 1050, a bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to 
the Chinese-American Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their 
dedicated service during World War II.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1091, a bill to establish a 
Federal Task Force to Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren.


                                S. 1130

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1130, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to create a sustainable future 
for rural healthcare.


                                S. 1212

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1212, a bill to provide family members of an individual who they fear 
is a danger to himself, herself, or others, and law enforcement, with 
new tools to prevent gun violence.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1539, a bill to protect victims of stalking 
from gun violence.
  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1539, supra.


                                S. 1685

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1685, a bill to require 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to establish procedures for considering 
certain credit scores in making a determination whether to purchase a 
residential mortgage, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1850

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1850, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to protect the confidentiality of 
substance use disorder patient records.


                                S. 1856

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1856, a bill 
to prevent the militarization of Federal, State, and local law 
enforcement by Federal excess property transfers and grant programs.


                                S. 1917

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1917, a bill to reform 
sentencing laws and correctional institutions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1945, a bill to regulate large capacity ammunition feeding devices.
  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1945, supra.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1989, a bill to 
enhance transparency and accountability for online political 
advertisements by requiring those who purchase and publish such ads to 
disclose information about the advertisements to the public, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2060

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2060, a bill to promote 
democracy and human rights in Burma, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2095

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2095, a bill to regulate assault weapons, to 
ensure that the right to keep and bear arms is not unlimited, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2101

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2101, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the crew of the USS 
Indianapolis, in recognition of their perseverance, bravery, and 
service to the United States.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator 
from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson), the 
Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Sanders) were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current 
law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2208

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2208, a bill to provide for 
the issuance of an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal Stamp.


                                S. 2227

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2227, a bill to reauthorize the Money Follows the 
Person Demonstration Program.


                                S. 2250

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2250, a bill to ensure due process 
protections of individuals in the United States against unlawful 
detention based solely on a protected characteristic.


                                S. 2255

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2255, a bill to 
reauthorize title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to 
improve and encourage innovation in international education, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2301

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2301, a bill to 
strengthen parity in mental health and substance use disorder benefits.


                                S. 2304

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2304, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to protect veterans from predatory lending, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2317

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2317, a 
bill to amend the

[[Page S1221]]

Controlled Substances Act to provide for additional flexibility with 
respect to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2341

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2341, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the processing of veterans 
benefits by the Department of Veterans Affairs, to limit the authority 
of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to recover overpayments made by 
the Department and other amounts owed by veterans to the United States, 
to improve the due process accorded veterans with respect to such 
recovery, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets 
under direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and 
other figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2361

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2361, a bill to 
amend the Federal Home Loan Bank Act to allow a captive insurance 
company that was a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank before January 
19, 2016, to continue or restore the membership of the captive 
insurance company in the Federal Home Loan Bank, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2384

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from 
Alabama (Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2384, a bill to 
amend the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 to make funding available to 1890 institutions 
without fiscal year limitation.


                                S. 2387

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2387, a bill to provide 
better care and outcomes for Americans living with Alzheimer's disease 
and related dementias and their caregivers while accelerating progress 
toward prevention strategies, disease modifying treatments, and, 
ultimately, a cure.


                                S. 2398

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2398, a bill to amend title 
31, United States Code, to provide that activities relating to the 
training and readiness of the reserve components of the Armed Forces 
during a lapse in appropriations shall constitute voluntary services 
that may be accepted by the United States.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2421, a bill to amend the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 to provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and 
penalties for releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at 
farms.


                                S. 2432

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2432, a bill to 
amend the charter of the Future Farmers of America, and for other 
purposes.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.


                              S. RES. 355

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 355, a resolution 
improving procedures for the consideration of nominations in the 
Senate.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones), the 
Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
Kaine), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson), the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. 
Klobuchar) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 377, a resolution 
recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those individuals who 
have faithfully served and retired from the Armed Forces of the United 
States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military Retiree Appreciation 
Day'', and encouraging the people of the United States to honor the 
past and continued service of military retirees to their local 
communities and the United States.


                              S. RES. 386

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 386, a resolution 
urging the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to 
fulfill its agreement to hold credible elections, comply with 
constitutional limits on presidential terms, and fulfill its 
constitutional mandate for a democratic transition of power by taking 
concrete and measurable steps towards holding elections not later than 
December 2018 as outlined in the existing election calendar, and 
allowing for freedom of expression and association.


                              S. RES. 402

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 402, a 
resolution calling upon the President to exercise relevant mandatory 
sanctions authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries 
Through Sanctions Act in response to the Government of the Russian 
Federation's continued aggression in Ukraine and illegal occupation of 
Crimea and assault on democratic institutions around the world, 
including through cyber attacks.


                              S. RES. 409

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 409, a resolution 
honoring the dedication and courage of the Buffalo Soldiers.


                              S. RES. 413

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford), the Senator 
from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman), the 
Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Moran) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 413, a resolution 
celebrating Black History Month.

                          ____________________



