

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1583]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





     SENATE RESOLUTION 428--RECOGNIZING THE HERITAGE, CULTURE, AND 
             CONTRIBUTIONS OF LATINAS IN THE UNITED STATES

  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Durbin, 
Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Reed, Mr. Nelson, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. 
Sanders, Mr. Brown, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
Bennet, Mr. Coons, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Warren, 
Mr. Markey, Mr. Booker, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Hassan, Ms. 
Harris, Ms. Smith, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mrs. Gillibrand) submitted the 
following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the 
Judiciary:

                              S. Res. 428

       Whereas the United States celebrates National Women's 
     History Month every March to recognize and honor the 
     achievements of women throughout the history of the United 
     States;
       Whereas there are more than 27,000,000 Latinas living in 
     the United States;
       Whereas 1 in 6 women in the United States is a Latina;
       Whereas Latinas have helped shape the history of the United 
     States since its inception;
       Whereas Latinas contribute to the society of the United 
     States through working in many industries, including 
     business, education, science and technology, medicine, 
     engineering, mathematics, literature and the arts, the 
     military, agriculture, hospitality, and public service at 
     every level of government;
       Whereas Latinas come from diverse cultures across North 
     America, Central America, and the Caribbean, and Afro-Latinas 
     face disparities in recognition;
       Whereas Latinas are dedicated public servants, holding 
     posts at the highest levels of the Federal Government, 
     including the Supreme Court of the United States, the United 
     States Senate, and the United States House of 
     Representatives;
       Whereas Latinas make up an estimated 15 percent of women in 
     the Armed Forces, and in 2006 Angela Salina became the first 
     Latina general in the United States Marine Corps;
       Whereas Latinas are breaking the glass ceiling in the 
     science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields, 
     such as Ellen Ochoa, who became the first Latina to go into 
     space during a 9-day Space Shuttle Discovery mission in 1993;
       Whereas Latinas own more than 1,400,000 businesses and 1 in 
     9 women-owned companies in the United States is owned by a 
     Latina;
       Whereas Latina activists have led the fight for civil 
     rights, including Dolores Huerta who cofounded the United 
     Farm Workers and advocates for the rights of immigrants, 
     agricultural workers, and women;
       Whereas Latinas create award-winning art and are recipients 
     of Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony awards, including Rita 
     Moreno who earned all 4 awards between 1961 and 1977;
       Whereas Latina singers and songwriters, like Selena, also 
     known as the Queen of Tejano music, and Celia Cruz, also 
     known as the Queen of Salsa, have made lasting and 
     significant contributions to music throughout the world;
       Whereas Latinas serve in the medical profession, including 
     Antonia Novello, who became the first female and first 
     Hispanic Surgeon General of the United States in 1990;
       Whereas Latinas are paid just 55 cents for every dollar 
     paid to white, non-Hispanic men;
       Whereas, in the face of societal obstacles, including 
     unequal pay, disparities in education, health care needs, and 
     civil rights struggles, Latinas continue to break through and 
     thrive;
       Whereas the United States should continue to invest in the 
     future of Latinas to address the barriers they face; and
       Whereas, by 2060, Latinas will represent one third of the 
     female population of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) celebrates and honors the successes of Latinas and the 
     contributions they have made and continue to make to the 
     United States; and
       (2) recognizes the changes that are still to be made to 
     ensure that Latinas can realize their full potential as equal 
     members of society.

                          ____________________



