

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S521]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 518

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 518, a bill to amend the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act to provide for technical assistance 
for small treatment works.


                                 S. 545

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 545, a bill to preserve 
and protect the free choice of individual employees to form, join, or 
assist labor organizations, or to refrain from such activities.


                                 S. 786

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 786, a bill to 
establish a grant program relating to the prevention of student and 
student athlete opioid misuse.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse 
practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, 
intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1719

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1719, a bill to eliminate 
duties on imports of recreational performance outerwear, to establish 
the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1922

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1922, a bill to amend 
title 18, United States Code, to protect pain-capable unborn children, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2008

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2008, a bill to 
combat the opioid epidemic and drug sample backlogs.


                                S. 2065

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2065, a bill to establish a 
demonstration program to provide integrated care for Medicare 
beneficiaries with end-stage renal disease, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2121

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2121, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to require reporting of certain data 
by providers and suppliers of air ambulance services for purposes of 
reforming reimbursements for such services under the Medicare program, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2174

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2174, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the 
Veterans Crisis Line.


                                S. 2311

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2311, a bill to amend 
title 18, United States Code, to protect pain-capable unborn children, 
and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 376

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 376, a resolution 
urging the Governments of Burma and Bangladesh to ensure the safe, 
dignified, voluntary, and sustainable return of the Rohingya refugees 
who have been displaced by the campaign of ethnic cleansing conducted 
by the Burmese military.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) and the Senator 
from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 377, a 
resolution recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those 
individuals who have faithfully served and retired from the Armed 
Forces of the United States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military 
Retiree Appreciation Day'', and encouraging the people of the United 
States to honor the past and continued service of military retirees to 
their local communities and the United States.

                          ____________________



