

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S612-S613]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2366. A bill to provide an adjustment to the 
     discretionary spending limits for appropriations for the 2020 
     decennial census; to the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 2367. A bill to provide relief from removal and 
     adjustment of status of certain individuals who are long-term 
     United States residents and who entered the United States 
     before reaching the age of 18, improve border security, 
     foster United States engagement in Central America, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2368. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas 
     emission fees, reduce the rate of the corporate income tax, 
     provide tax credits to workers, deliver additional benefits 
     to retired and disabled Americans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Ms. Murkowski, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 2369. A bill to authorize aboriginal subsistence whaling 
     pursuant to the regulations of the International Whaling 
     Commission, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2370. A bill to better support our early childhood 
     educators and elementary school and secondary school 
     teachers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Carper, 
             Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 2371. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the definition of municipal solid waste; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Tillis, 
             Mr. Alexander, Mr. Daines, and Mr. Heller):
       S. 2372. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide outer burial receptacles for remains buried in 
     National Parks, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 2373. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to extend the credit for production of refined coal; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, Mr. Peters, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 2374. A bill to amend the Improper Payments Elimination 
     and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012, including making 
     changes to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for improved detection, 
     prevention, and recovery of improper payments to deceased 
     individuals, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

[[Page S613]]

  

           By Mr. BROWN:
       S. 2375. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     allow consumers to prohibit certain consumer reporting 
     agencies from releasing any information in the files of those 
     consumers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 2376. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 515 Hope Street in Bristol, 
     Rhode Island, as the ``First Sergeant P. Andrew McKenna Jr. 
     Post Office''; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



