

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2042]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
  S. 2640. A bill to require operators that provide online and similar 
services to educational agencies, institutions, or programs to protect 
the privacy and security of personally identifiable information, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, later today the CEO of Facebook will come 
before the U.S. Senate to discuss Facebook's leak of the data of an 
estimated 87 million users.
  As someone who personally spent over a decade in the technology 
business and cloud computing, I know how important tech jobs are. I 
know how important internet connectivity is and how important social 
media is to our growing economy.
  But I am also the father of four children, and I know the importance 
of ensuring that as technology continues to rapidly evolve, our 
children's security and privacy must be protected. In fact, recently in 
Montana we had a breach of our children's data at Kalispell Middle 
School. That is why today I am reintroducing the SAFE KIDS Act.
  This bill prohibits websites and programs that are designed for 
students ranging from pre-K to the 12th grade from selling or 
disclosing our children's personal information. It takes the control of 
our students' data away from operators and places it back where it 
should be, in the hands of parents and the students themselves. This is 
a smart, timely, and important bill.
  Our children's information shouldn't be used and abused, and I 
encourage and ask my colleagues to join me in support of the SAFE KIDS 
Act.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Young, and Mr. Jones):
  S. 2642. A bill to require the Secretary of Labor, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to establish a pilot 
program for Jobs Plus Recovery programs, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, the opioid and addiction epidemic continues 
to devastate communities across our country today. One of the greatest 
challenges for the 21 million Americans currently impacted by substance 
use disorder is to obtain and maintain employment while sustaining 
recovery. For the benefit of our Nation, we must work to implement 
interventions to improve employment rates among this chronically 
unemployed and underemployed population in treatment and recovery.
  Research demonstrates that alignment of job training and treatment 
services improves employment attainment, employee earnings, and 
substance use disorder treatment outcomes, including lower rates of 
relapse. By holding a job, an individual establishes a legal source of 
income, structured use of time, and improved self-esteem, which in term 
may reduce substance use and boost our economy.
  The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) is the major 
source of Federal support for workforce development. WIOA programs 
provide education and training services to prepare individuals for work 
and to help them improve their prospects in the labor market through 
job search assistance, career counseling, occupational skill training, 
classroom training, or on-the-job training; however, no dedicated 
funding currently exists to integrate workforce training into recovery 
and treatment services to enable individuals to secure and maintain 
stable employment. Participants enrolled in WIOA--beyond core service--
achieve an adult entered employment rate overall of 82%, which rises to 
87% for on-the-job training and apprenticeship.
  I am pleased to introduce today with my colleagues, Senator Young and 
Senator Jones, the Jobs Plus Recovery Act, which addresses barriers 
individuals in treatment face when seeking employment opportunities. 
The Jobs Plus Recovery Act amends WIOA to empower our primary workforce 
development driver to better support the needs of individuals with 
substance use disorders by including them in the definition of an 
individual with a barrier to employment. The bill also supports 
partnerships between substance use disorder treatment and recovery 
providers, education providers, and job services providers, such as the 
American Job Centers established in WIOA, to improve worker training, 
employment opportunity and retention for individuals in recovery.
  Throughout my time as a public servant, I have remained committed to 
ensuring our Nation's workforce is as strong as possible. Virginia 
businesses continue to share their desperate need for more applicants 
with the necessary skills to thrive in their industries. I am proud to 
introduce this commonsense, bipartisan legislation to provide critical 
support services to equip workers with the training and supports 
necessary to gain and retain meaningful employment.

                          ____________________



