

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1352-H1353]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            U.S. NAVY SEAMAN DAKOTA KYLE RIGSBY POST OFFICE

  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 3183) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 13683 James Madison Highway in Palmyra, Virginia, as 
the ``U.S. Navy Seaman Dakota Kyle Rigsby Post Office''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3183

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. U.S. NAVY SEAMAN DAKOTA KYLE RIGSBY POST OFFICE.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 13683 James Madison Highway in Palmyra, 
     Virginia, shall be known and designated as the ``U.S. Navy 
     Seaman Dakota Kyle Rigsby Post Office''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``U.S. Navy Seaman Dakota Kyle Rigsby Post 
     Office''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Palmer) and the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.


                             General Leave

  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Alabama?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3183, introduced by the 
gentleman from Virginia, Representative Tom Garrett.
  H.R. 3183 names the post office at 13683 James Madison Highway in 
Palmyra, Virginia, after U.S. Navy Seaman Apprentice Dakota Kyle 
Rigsby.
  Seaman Rigsby tragically lost his life on June 17, 2017, as the 
result of a naval accident while serving on the USS Fitzgerald.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Garrett) to hear more about Seaman Rigsby's life and 
service.
  Mr. GARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Alabama for 
yielding and the gentleman from Missouri.
  The Bible says: Greater love hath no man than this, to lay down his 
life for his brothers and sisters.
  On September 12, 1997, a little boy was born to a hardworking couple 
and named Dakota Kyle Rigsby.
  Dakota's father served in the military, and this would influence 
Dakota's decision to one day follow in his father's footsteps and also 
serve this great Nation.
  Every young man and woman, and every parent who kisses a child good-
bye, understands that the potential price for such a decision is to 
make the ultimate sacrifice for something that is bigger and greater 
than yourself, and on June 17, 2017, Dakota Kyle Rigsby did just that, 
along with six colleagues: Yeoman 3rd Class Shingo Alexander Douglass; 
Sonar Technician 3rd Class Ngoc Truong Huynh; Gunners Mate 2nd Class 
Noe Hernandez; Fire Controlman 2nd Class Carlos Victor Ganzon Sibayan; 
Personnel Specialist 1st Class Xavier Alec Martin; and Fire Controlman 
1st Class Gary Leo Rehm, Jr.
  I often joke that the United States is the worst country in the world 
except for all the others.
  When a slave owner named Jefferson articulated an idea for the world 
that all people were created equal, it harkens to the preamble to the 
Constitution that gives us not a perfect union, but asks us to work 
towards a more perfect union, which means that there is always work to 
be done.
  Mr. Speaker, this work is invariably done in most instances by women 
and men whose names we will never know. So we carry this bill so that 
one of those heroes upon the backs of whom our Nation is built will be 
remembered, even if only in a small place in a small way, for 
sacrificing every single one of his tomorrows to help us continue to be 
free.

[[Page H1353]]

  


                              {time}  1745

  He joins the legion of Americans numbered in the millions who have 
given the ultimate sacrifice. We know the name of Abraham Lincoln. We 
know the name of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. We need to remember the 
names of people, heroes like Dakota Rigsby.
  So this young man, devoted to service, demonstrated this from his 
time in high school as a volunteer firefighter to that eventful night 
when he executed his duties and went to bed for the day on the USS 
Fitzgerald.
  I understand that there is a lot that we still need to do in this 
country, but please understand that we are where we are because better 
people than us have given all of their tomorrows for us to be here.
  I would submit that when you hear that national anthem, while I would 
defend to my last breath your right not to stand, that you do stand. 
Stand up for Dakota Kyle Rigsby because, by God, he stood up for us.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I am pleased to join my friend from the great State of Virginia (Mr. 
Garrett) in urging passage of H.R. 3183, the U.S. Navy Seaman Dakota 
Kyle Rigsby Post Office.
  The youngest servicemember killed in the collision on the USS 
Fitzgerald, Seaman Rigsby is remembered today by his family and friends 
for his sense of humor and true passion for public service.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to honor Seaman Rigsby's memory 
and service to his country.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to inform the gentleman from Alabama that I have 
no further speakers on this bill. I urge its passage, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I have been very honored to join with the 
gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay) and my other colleagues to not only 
honor those named, but their families and colleagues, as well, and let 
them know that these heroes, their loved ones, will not be forgotten.
  I have no further speakers, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Palmer) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 3183.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



