

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S110]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 108

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 108, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on medical 
devices.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 521

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 521, a bill to make the 
National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass available at a 
discount to veterans.


                                 S. 528

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 528, a bill to amend 
the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to provide leave because of 
the death of a son or daughter.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and 
services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women 
veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 783

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 783, a bill 
to amend the Public Health Service Act to distribute maternity care 
health professionals to health professional shortage areas identified 
as in need of maternity care health services.


                                 S. 999

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 999, a bill to amend the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to permanently prohibit the conduct 
of offshore drilling on the outer Continental Shelf in the Mid-
Atlantic, South Atlantic, North Atlantic, and Straits of Florida 
planning areas.


                                S. 1419

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1419, a bill to amend the 
Voting Rights Act of 1965 to revise the criteria for determining which 
States and political subdivisions are subject to section 4 of the Act, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1870

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1870, a bill to amend the 
Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent resources vital to Indian 
victims of crime, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2174

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2174, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the Veterans Crisis 
Line.


                                S. 2203

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2203, a bill to 
amend title 9 of the United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                                S. 2255

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2255, a bill to reauthorize title VI of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 in order to improve and encourage innovation in 
international education, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 368

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the 
Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from New York (Mrs. 
Gillibrand), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator 
from Kansas (Mr. Moran), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), the 
Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 368, a resolution supporting the right 
of all Iranian citizens to have their voices heard.

                          ____________________



