

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1875]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. ERNST:
       S. 2581. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for a 2-year prohibition on employment in a career 
     civil service position for any former political appointee, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Sanders, 
             Ms. Harris, Ms. Baldwin, and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 2582. A bill to provide health insurance reform, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 2583. A bill to amend the Foreign Agents Registration 
     Act of 1938 to limit the exemption from the registration 
     requirements of such Act for persons engaging in activities 
     in furtherance of bona fide religious, scholastic, academic, 
     or scientific pursuits or the fine arts to activities which 
     do not promote the political agenda of a foreign government, 
     to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to clarify the 
     disclosures of foreign gifts by institutions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Cardin, Mr. Carper, Mr. Casey, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Hassan, 
             Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Jones, Mr. Kaine, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Markey, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. 
             Murray, Mr. Reed, Ms. Smith, Ms. Stabenow, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Cantwell, 
             Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Harris, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Sanders, 
             Mr. Schatz, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Udall, Mr. Van Hollen, 
             and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 2584. A bill to end discrimination based on actual or 
     perceived sexual orientation or gender identity in public 
     schools, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 2585. A bill to amend the Water Resources Development 
     Act of 2000 to permanently extend the authority of the 
     Secretary of the Army to accept and expend funds from certain 
     entities to process permits; to the Committee on Environment 
     and Public Works.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Sullivan, 
             and Mrs. Fischer):
       S. 2586. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to increase the ability of a State to administer 
     a permit program under that Act, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Hatch, and Mr. 
             Sullivan):
       S. 2587. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
     to establish a program to allow States to assume certain 
     Federal responsibilities under that Act with respect to 
     agency actions applicable to highway projects within the 
     States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Hatch, and Mr. 
             Sullivan):
       S. 2588. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     establish a program to allow States to assume certain Federal 
     responsibilities under that title with respect to agency 
     actions applicable to highway projects within the States, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.

                          ____________________



