

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S23-S24]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient 
rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a 
voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 448

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 448, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for treatment of 
clinical psychologists as physicians for purposes of furnishing 
clinical psychologist services under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                S. 1018

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1018, a bill to provide 
humanitarian assistance for the Venezuelan people, to defend democratic 
governance and combat widespread public corruption in Venezuela, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a 
bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-
American Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
service during World War II.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1503, a bill to require the Secretary of 
the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th anniversary of 
the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1674

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1674, a bill to 
provide grants for the repair, renovation, and construction of public 
elementary schools and secondary schools, to establish a school 
infrastructure bond program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Shelby), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds), the Senator 
from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications 
Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit 
the enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                                S. 1795

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1795, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to improve the financial aid process for 
homeless children and youths and foster care children and youth.


                                S. 1978

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1978, a bill to delay the 
annual fee on health insurance providers until 2020 and to make such 
fee tax deductible.


                                S. 2060

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2060, a bill to 
promote democracy and human rights in Burma, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2136

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2136, a bill to 
expand the

[[Page S24]]

monthly payments that may be eligible for public service loan 
forgiveness.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2159, a bill to 
require covered harassment and covered discrimination awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered harassment and covered discrimination complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2174

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2174, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the 
Veterans Crisis Line.


                                S. 2203

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2203, a bill to amend title 9 of the United 
States Code with respect to arbitration.

                          ____________________



