

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1349-H1350]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       LANCE CORPORAL THOMAS E. RIVERS, JR. POST OFFICE BUILDING

  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 4646) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 1900 Corporate Drive in Birmingham, Alabama, as the 
``Lance Corporal Thomas E. Rivers, Jr. Post Office Building''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 4646

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. LANCE CORPORAL THOMAS E. RIVERS, JR. POST OFFICE 
                   BUILDING.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 1900 Corporate Drive in Birmingham, 
     Alabama, shall be known and designated as the ``Lance 
     Corporal Thomas E. Rivers, Jr. Post Office Building''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Lance Corporal Thomas E. Rivers, Jr. 
     Post Office Building''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Palmer) and the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.


                             General Leave

  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Alabama?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4646. This bill names 
the post office at 1900 Corporate Drive in Birmingham, Alabama, after 
Lance Corporal Thomas E. Rivers, Jr.
  Corporal Rivers was a resident of Hoover, Alabama, and a graduate of 
Briarwood Christian School.
  Both of Rivers' grandfathers served in the military, and he desired 
to follow in their footsteps. Corporal Rivers wrote in a high school 
essay that he ``wanted to be a marine since he was 10 years old,'' and 
that he believed ``joining the Marines would be a good experience for 
him because it would teach

[[Page H1350]]

him to rely on God to make it through.''
  Two weeks after graduating from high school, Thomas fulfilled his 
dream by joining the Marines. He was known by his fellow marines as a 
man of devout faith who was always looking for ways to serve his fellow 
marines.
  In the early morning hours of April 28, 2010, while deployed in 
Helmand province, Afghanistan, Rivers ordered his men to take their 
positions. However, the marine assigned to stand watch was exhausted. 
As a patrol leader, Rivers was never required to stand post, but Thomas 
had been reading in the Bible about how love isn't an emotion but is 
demonstrated in laying your life down for your friends. Rivers told the 
weary marine: ``I'll stand post for you; you rest.''
  Tragically, while replacing the exhausted marine, Rivers activated an 
improvised explosive device. Rivers gave his life for his country and 
exemplified the attitude in John 15:13:

       Greater love has no one than this, that he should lay down 
     his life for his friends.

  This bill pays tribute to Corporal Rivers' sacrifice. Mr. Speaker, I 
urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 4646, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 1900 Corporate Drive in Birmingham, Alabama, as the 
Lance Corporal Thomas E. Rivers, Jr. Post Office Building.
  Born in Hoover, Alabama, Lance Corporal Thomas Rivers, Jr., held a 
deep love and dedication to both his faith and his country. Mr. Rivers 
dreamed of becoming a marine from a young age and enlisted following 
his graduation from Briarwood Christian School in 2007.
  Tragically, on April 28, 2010, Lance Corporal Rivers was killed by an 
improvised explosive device while serving in Afghanistan. He was just 
22 years old.
  In order that they might honor and continue their son's love of 
country, Lance Corporal Rivers' parents now run a nonprofit 
organization that sends care packages to soldiers.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to commemorate Lance Corporal 
Thomas Rivers, Jr., and the ultimate sacrifice he made for the country 
he so loved.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of H.R. 4646, and I reserve the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate very much the comments from the 
gentleman from Missouri. I know the family does.
  I knew Corporal Rivers. He attended the same high school as my 
children. I know his mom and dad very well. He is another example--as 
we have heard time and time again on this floor--of young men and women 
willing to sacrifice their lives not only for their country, but for 
their fellow soldiers and marines. It is an honor to stand here with my 
friend, the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay) to urge passage of this 
bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to make the gentleman from Missouri aware 
that I have no further speakers, and I am prepared to close.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to urge the passage of this 
legislation for Lance Corporal Rivers, and I yield back the balance of 
my time.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Palmer) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 4646.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



