

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S518]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      10TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE YELLOW RIBBON REINTEGRATION PROGRAM

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 10th 
anniversary of the establishment of the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration 
Program. The National Defense Authorization Act of 2008 established the 
Department of Defense Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program to assist 
National Guard and Reserve servicemembers as they transition between 
their civilian and military roles and back again. The program ensures 
the readiness of Reserve Component members, their families, and 
communities before, during, and after deployment.
  National Guard and Reserve servicemembers are the backbone of our 
Nation's military, comprising nearly half of our total force. We have 
relied on them to support combat missions abroad, and we will continue 
to rely on them. Nearly 1 million guardsmen and reservists have 
deployed since September 11, 2001, with nearly 35,000 currently 
mobilized.
  Not only do National Guard and Reserve servicemembers support combat 
operations, security, and humanitarian missions around the world, they 
also ensure our safety when unforeseen disasters and emergencies occur. 
Just this past year, Reserve Component members have responded to 
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, providing relief and emergency 
services to hundreds of thousands of Americans. Through their 
compassion, professionalism, and courage, they protect our way of life, 
not just abroad, but also here at home.
  In establishing the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, Congress 
recognized that National Guard and Reserve servicemembers face 
challenges throughout the deployment cycle that are uniquely different 
than those confronting their Active-Duty counterparts. Most notably, 
Reserve Component members often live far from military installations 
and other members of their units, decreasing their opportunities for 
support during each stage of deployment.
  The Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program bridges this gap by 
connecting National Guard and Reserve servicemembers and their families 
with resources where they live and provides a support network to aide 
their unique challenges. Through the program, Reserve Component members 
and their families gain access to relevant information and resources, 
including family and marriage counseling, financial planning and 
education, small business planning, legal benefits, healthcare 
information, employment training opportunities, and veterans benefits 
education.
  I had the distinct pleasure of working with Congressman John Kline 
and Senators Norm Coleman, Saxby Chambliss, and Johnny Isakson in 
introducing the legislation that created the Yellow Ribbon 
Reintegration Program in 2008. I am pleased to say the Minnesota 
National Guard's program, Beyond the Yellow Ribbon, sought to improve 
how Minnesota's servicemembers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan 
experienced reintegration and became the model for the national program 
we are recognizing today.
  Since its launch, the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program's pre, 
during, and postdeployment events have supported more than 1.5 million 
servicemembers and their families. These 10 years have demonstrated the 
necessity of the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program's mission in 
maintaining the readiness of National Guard and Reserve servicemembers, 
their families, and their communities.
  I am sure the entire Senate will join with me in congratulating the 
Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program on the successes that have brought 
it to its 10th anniversary and supporting its continued success moving 
forward.

                          ____________________



