

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1244-S1245]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 58, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health 
coverage.


                                 S. 168

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 168, a bill to 
amend and enhance certain maritime programs of the Department of 
Transportation.


                                 S. 397

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 397, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure fairness in Medicare 
hospital payments by establishing a floor for the area wage index 
applied with respect to certain hospitals.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 793, a bill to prohibit 
sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 811

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 811, a bill to ensure that 
organizations with religious or moral convictions are allowed to 
continue to provide services for children.


                                 S. 834

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 834, a bill to authorize the 
appropriation of funds to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention for conducting or supporting research on firearms safety or 
gun violence prevention.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1091, a bill to establish a 
Federal Task Force to Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren.


                                S. 1278

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the names of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1278, a bill to provide for the admission of 
the State of Washington, D.C. into the Union.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1539, a bill to 
protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1589, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act to expand the 
availability of employee stock ownership plans in S corporations, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1632

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1632, a bill to 
establish an additional fund in the Treasury to meet existing statutory 
obligations to reimburse costs reasonably incurred as a result of the 
reorganization of broadcast television spectrum, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1674

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1674, a bill to provide grants 
for the repair, renovation, and construction of public elementary 
schools and secondary schools, to establish a school infrastructure 
bond program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1710

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1710, a bill 
to reduce the Federal budget deficit by closing big oil tax loopholes, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1879

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1879, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the coverage of 
marriage and family therapist services and mental health counselor 
services under part B of the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1945, a bill to 
regulate large capacity ammunition feeding devices.


                                S. 2073

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2073, a bill to 
establish a vegetation management pilot program on National Forest 
System land to better protect utility infrastructure from passing 
wildfire, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2076, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of activities 
related to Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain health 
under the Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune), the Senator 
from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current law 
regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2208

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2208, a bill to 
provide for the issuance of an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal 
Stamp.


                                S. 2278

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to provide grants to improve health care in 
rural areas.
  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, supra.


                                S. 2324

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow), the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp), the 
Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. 
Peters), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added as cosponsors of S. 2324, a 
bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 1940 to change certain 
requirements relating to the capital structure of business development 
companies, to direct the Securities and Exchange Commission to revise 
certain rules relating to business development companies, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2341

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2341, a bill to amend title 
38, United

[[Page S1245]]

States Code, to improve the processing of veterans benefits by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, to limit the authority of the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs to recover overpayments made by the Department and 
other amounts owed by veterans to the United States, to improve the due 
process accorded veterans with respect to such recovery, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets under 
direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and other 
figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2360

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2360, a bill to 
provide for the minimum size of crews of freight trains, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2421, a bill to amend the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to provide an 
exemption from certain notice requirements and penalties for releases 
of hazardous substances from animal waste at farms.


                                S. 2430

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2430, a bill 
to provide a permanent appropriation of funds for the payment of death 
gratuities and related benefits for survivors of deceased members of 
the uniformed services in event of any period of lapsed appropriations.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 7, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt fraternal 
benefit societies have historically provided and continue to provide 
critical benefits to the people and communities of the United States.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a 
resolution supporting respect for human rights and encouraging 
inclusive governance in Ethiopia.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 377, a resolution 
recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those individuals who 
have faithfully served and retired from the Armed Forces of the United 
States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military Retiree Appreciation 
Day'', and encouraging the people of the United States to honor the 
past and continued service of military retirees to their local 
communities and the United States.

                          ____________________



