

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S517-S518]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     CONFIRMATION OF SAM BROWNBACK

  Mr. HATCH. Now, Mr. President, turning to another subject, I would 
like to speak for a few minutes on Sam Brownback's recent confirmation 
as Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom. I've known 
Governor Brownback for many years, and I am confident he will serve our 
Nation well in advancing and defending religious freedom across the 
world.
  Throughout my Senate service, it has been my privilege to defend 
religious freedom. In 1990, for example, I served as one of the 
principal authors of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, or RFRA, a 
crucially important piece of legislation that prohibits the government 
from substantially burdening a person's exercise of religion unless 
doing so is necessary to further a compelling government interest.
  The bill passed the Senate 97 to 3 and passed the House without 
recorded opposition. This remarkable, broad support demonstrated that 
religious liberty is a rare issue that unites Americans of all stripes.
  That unity of purpose extends to our commitment to protect this 
fundamental right abroad. In 1948, the Unites States was one of the 
original signers of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which 
proclaims that every person has the right to freedom of religion.
  Fifty years later, Congress unanimously passed the International 
Religious Freedom Act. I was proud to support this act, which declares 
religious freedom to be a universal human right, a pillar of our 
Nation, and a fundamental freedom. The law established the U.S. 
Commission on International Religious Freedom and created the position 
of Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom, the 
position to which Governor Brownback was just confirmed.
  As evidenced by his work here in the Senate, Governor Brownback truly 
understands the need for leaders who will stand up for religious 
liberty and ensure that all people--no matter where they live--are able 
to worship how, where, or what they may.
  During his 14 years in this body, Governor Brownback was involved in 
a wide range of issues related to religious freedom. Governor Brownback 
knows firsthand how crucial the Commission is in keeping our Nation and 
world leaders informed about the status of religious freedom throughout 
the world.
  It seems unfathomable in this day and age, but thousands and even 
hundreds of thousands of our brothers and sisters throughout the world 
are being imprisoned, tortured, and even executed for their personal 
convictions. In recent remarks, Secretary of State Tillerson discussed 
the prevalence of religious persecution and intolerance. He noted that 
almost 80 percent of the global population lives with restrictions on 
their freedom of religion.

[[Page S518]]

  As a nation, we must act to protect this most fundamental, 
inalienable right for all people.
  At his recent confirmation hearing, Governor Brownback pledged to 
``stand for liberty and stand with the persecuted [and] to promote 
respect for religious freedom by all governments and peoples.'' I 
believe he will fulfill this pledge, and I thank him for his 
willingness to serve our country as Ambassador at Large for 
International Religious Freedom.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Young). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



