

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1332-H1334]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ESTES of Kansas (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and 
             Mr. Gallagher):
       H.R. 5099. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish in the Department of Homeland Security a 
     fusion center technical assistance program; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. Bilirakis, and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H.R. 5100. A bill To amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize grants to States to establish and operate recovery 
     home certification programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Rothfus, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Budd, and Mr. Capuano):
       H.R. 5101. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Treasury to pay rewards under an asset recovery rewards 
     program to help identify and recover stolen assets linked to 
     foreign government corruption and the proceeds of such 
     corruption hidden behind complex financial structures in the 
     United States and abroad; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself, Mr. Rogers 
             of Kentucky, Mr. Sarbanes, and Mr. Guthrie):
       H.R. 5102. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize a loan repayment program for substance use disorder 
     treatment employees, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bass, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 5103. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the excise tax and special occupational tax 
     in respect of firearms and to increase the transfer tax on 
     any other weapon, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committees on Natural 
     Resources, the Judiciary, Education and the Workforce, and 
     Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, 
             Mr. Thompson of California, and Mr. Bilirakis):
       H.R. 5104. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for a special enrollment period under 
     Medicare for individuals enrolled in COBRA continuation 
     coverage, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself and Mr. Smith of Washington):
       H.R. 5105. A bill to establish the United States 
     International Development Finance Corporation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. MEEKS:
       H.R. 5106. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require issuers to disclose in an annual report any 
     substantial financial relationship with any manufacturer or 
     dealer of firearms or ammunition; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS:
       H.R. 5107. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     carry out a grant program to secure elementary schools and 
     secondary schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Higgins 
             of New York, Mr.

[[Page H1333]]

             Ellison, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Lee, Mr. DeSaulnier, and Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California):
       H.R. 5108. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for current year inclusion of net CFC tested 
     income, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. McKinley, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Mr. Poliquin, and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 5109. A bill to amend the 21st Century Cures Act to 
     ensure the equitable distribution of resources to address the 
     opioid epidemic, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
       H.R. 5110. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require institutions of higher education to report revenue 
     generated by each sports team, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself and Mr. Russell):
       H.R. 5111. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     provide certain purchasing authority for recipients or 
     subrecipients of grants under chapter 53 of title 49 of such 
     Code, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. MASSIE:
       H.R. 5112. A bill to reduce, from 21 years of age to 18 
     years of age, the minimum age at which a person may obtain a 
     handgun from a Federal firearms licensee; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN (for herself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Titus, 
             and Mr. Gutierrez):
       H.R. 5113. A bill to amend title 41, United States Code, to 
     require sexual harassment training for the employees of 
     Federal contractors, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Ms. McCollum, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Pocan, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 5114. A bill to amend the Toxic Substances Control Act 
     to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency to take action to eliminate human exposure to 
     asbestos, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana (for himself and Mr. Costello 
             of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 5115. A bill to expand and improve the programs and 
     activities of the Department of Health and Human Services for 
     awareness, education, research, surveillance, diagnosis, and 
     treatment concerning rare diseases and conditions; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CONAWAY:
       H.R. 5116. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     provide for the jurisdiction of courts of the United States 
     and of the States over certain foreign entities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CRIST (for himself and Mr. Johnson of 
             Louisiana):
       H.R. 5117. A bill to authorize the President to enter into 
     a cooperative project agreement with Israel to counter 
     unmanned aerial vehicles that threaten the United States or 
     Israel; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself and Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 5118. A bill to establish USAccounts, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 5119. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     carry out a STEM grant program; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 5120. A bill to require Presidential appointment and 
     Senate confirmation of Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
     Court judges; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi (for himself, Ms. Rosen, 
             Mr. Walz, and Mr. Palazzo):
       H.R. 5121. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     remove the prohibition on eligibility for TRICARE Reserve 
     Select of members of the reserve components of the Armed 
     Forces who are eligible to enroll in a health benefits plan 
     under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Lee, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 5122. A bill to amend the Food and Agriculture Act of 
     1977 to provide mandatory funding for grants to upgrade 
     agricultural and food sciences facilities at 1890 land-grant 
     colleges, including Tuskegee University; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 5123. A bill to abolish the Conscience and Religious 
     Freedom Division in the Office of Civil Rights of the 
     Department of Health and Human Services, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. McCOLLUM (for herself and Mr. Smucker):
       H.R. 5124. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to establish a community action opioid 
     response grant program; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. McEACHIN (for himself and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 5125. A bill to improve and expand authorities, 
     programs, services, and benefits for military spouses and 
     military families, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself and Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 5126. A bill to authorize assistance for procurement 
     of missile defense systems for Israel, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Carbajal, and Ms. 
             Brownley of California):
       H.R. 5127. A bill to establish a grant program for the 
     funding of water recycling and reuse projects, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself and Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico):
       H.R. 5128. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture 
     to award grants to tribal health programs located on 
     reservations impacted by uranium mining or milling, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Ms. McCollum, 
             Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Engel, Mr. Austin Scott 
             of Georgia, Ms. Bass, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Paulsen, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 5129. A bill to reauthorize the Global Food Security 
     Act of 2016, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. TENNEY:
       H.R. 5130. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     permit the Secretary of a military department to grant 
     veterans access to certain fitness centers under the 
     jurisdiction of such Secretary, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 5131. A bill to improve the effectiveness of Federal 
     efforts to identify and address homeland security risks to 
     surface transportation, secure against vehicle-based attacks, 
     and conduct a feasibility assessment of introducing new 
     security technologies and measures, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Ms. McCollum, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Sherman, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Heck, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Beyer, 
             Ms. Matsui, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Raskin, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Polis, Mr. Nadler, 
             Mr. McNerney, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Crowley, 
             Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Ellison, 
             Mr. Doggett, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Takano, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Visclosky, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Welch, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Neal, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Khanna, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Levin, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. 
             Davis of California, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Walz, Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Pelosi, 
             Mr. Delaney, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Cohen, Mr.

[[Page H1334]]

             Moulton, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Sires, 
             Mr. Crist, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Sablan, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Adams, Mr. Panetta, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Brownley of California, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Engel, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Meng, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Ms. Bass, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Veasey, 
             Ms. Titus, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Bera, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Larsen 
             of Washington, Mr. Kind, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. 
             Schrader, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Pascrell, 
             Mr. Himes, Mr. Soto, Ms. Sanchez, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. Gallego, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Mr. Hoyer, and Mr. Cardenas):
       H.J. Res. 129. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal 
     Communications Commission relating to ``Restoring Internet 
     Freedom''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Walker, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Huizenga, Mrs. 
             Handel, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. Norman, Mr. Bost, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Arrington, Ms. 
             Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. 
             Posey, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Brat, Mr. 
             Gibbs, Mr. Messer, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Marshall, Mr. 
             Goodlatte, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Jody 
             B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Barr, Mr. Sam Johnson of 
             Texas, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Johnson of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Emmer, Mr. MacArthur, Mrs. Black, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
             Palazzo, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Holding, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Newhouse, Mrs. 
             Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Grothman, and Ms. Foxx):
       H.J. Res. 130. A joint resolution honoring the life of 
     William (Billy) F. Graham, Jr; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H. Con. Res. 108. Concurrent resolution honoring and 
     praising the National Association for the Advancement of 
     Colored People on the occasion of its 109th anniversary; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Dunn, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             Posey, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Ross, Mr. Soto, 
             and Mr. Bilirakis):
       H. Con. Res. 109. Concurrent resolution expressing support 
     for the CubeSat Launch Initiative and recognizing the 
     development of WeissSat-1; to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. WOMACK (for himself, Mr. Westerman, Mr. 
             Crawford, Mr. Hill, Ms. Hanabusa, and Ms. Gabbard):
       H. Con. Res. 110. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 
     rich history, heritage, and strategic importance of the 
     Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Marshallese 
     population residing in the United States; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, Foreign Affairs, and Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Ms. Norton, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Blunt Rochester, 
             Mr. McGovern, Mrs. Beatty, and Mrs. Comstock):
       H. Res. 752. A resolution recognizing the rise of 
     cardiovascular disease as the world's leading cause of 
     preventable death and disability and as the global public 
     health crisis of our generation and recognizing February 2018 
     as ``American Heart Month''; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Mrs. 
             Davis of California, and Mr. Khanna):
       H. Res. 753. A resolution encouraging people in the United 
     States to recognize March 2, 2018, as Read Across America 
     Day; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
       H. Res. 754. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Dominican Heritage Month; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H. Res. 755. A resolution recognizing and celebrating Black 
     History Month; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. 
             Speier, and Mr. DeSaulnier):
       H. Res. 756. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of March 21, 2018, as ``National Rosie the 
     Riveter Day''; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Ms. Norton, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Meeks, and Mr. Ellison):
       H. Res. 757. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of October 17 as ``National Vitiligo Awareness 
     Day''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Ms. Speier, and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H. Res. 758. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the month of February 2018 as ``National Teen 
     Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month''; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



