

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 42 (Friday, March 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 42 (Friday, March 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1506-H1507]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 5237. A bill to require the holder of a subordinate 
     lien on the property that secures a federally related 
     mortgage loan, upon a request by the homeowner for a short 
     sale, to make a timely decision whether to allow the sale; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. 
             King of New York, Mr. Suozzi, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Donovan, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Engel, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. Faso, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Stefanik, Ms. Tenney, 
             Mr. Reed, Mr.

[[Page H1507]]

             Katko, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Higgins of New York, and 
             Mr. Collins of New York):
       H.R. 5238. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1234 Saint Johns Place in 
     Brooklyn, New York, as the ``Major Robert Odell Owens Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 5239. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish a voluntary Cyber Sense program to identify and 
     promote cyber-secure products intended for use in the bulk-
     power system, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself and Mr. Latta):
       H.R. 5240. A bill to provide for certain programs and 
     developments in the Department of Energy concerning the 
     cybersecurity and vulnerabilities of, and physical threats 
     to, the electric grid, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 5241. A bill to address the needs of individuals with 
     disabilities within the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus 
     Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
       H.R. 5242. A bill to require the Attorney General and the 
     Secretary of Education to conduct a survey of all public 
     schools to determine the number of school resource officers 
     at such schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
       H.R. 5243. A bill to direct the Attorney General and the 
     Secretary of Education to develop and implement national 
     standards and best practices for school resource officers; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KEATING (for himself, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Kennedy, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Lynch, 
             and Mr. Meeks):
       H.R. 5244. A bill to reaffirm the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe 
     reservation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. Hastings, and Mr. 
             Deutch):
       H.R. 5245. A bill to transfer Coast Guard property in the 
     Town of Jupiter Island, Florida, for inclusion in Hobe Sound 
     National Wildlife Refuge; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. RUSSELL (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Cole, and 
             Mr. Lucas):
       H.R. 5246. A bill to require directors of medical 
     facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs to submit 
     plans to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on how to improve 
     such facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HECK (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, and Mrs. Torres):
       H. Res. 769. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of March 9, 2018, as a national day of 
     remembrance in honor of the life, legacy, and many 
     accomplishments of Billy Frank, Jr; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H. Res. 770. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Social Work Month during March 2018 and World Social Work 
     Day on March 20, 2018; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.

                          ____________________



