

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H417]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         HONORING THOMAS COWARD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Yoho) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of one of Alachua 
County, Florida's, true trailblazers--Alachua County, Florida, is my 
home county in northeast central Florida--Mr. Thomas Coward, who passed 
away on December 23, 2017.
  Mr. Coward was drafted into the Navy in 1942 and served during World 
War II. After his honorable discharge, he went on to pursue higher 
education, graduated with his bachelor of science in social studies 
from Lincoln University in Missouri, and followed it with a master of 
science from Tuskegee University in Alabama.
  Upon completion of his master's, he returned to his alma mater, 
Lincoln High School in Gainesville, to teach civics and history. His 
interactive style of teaching that included mock government scenarios 
encouraged students to get involved in government affairs.
  He later went on to serve as the dean of students for Lincoln High 
School, then transferred as the dean of students to the newly opened 
Buchholz High School in Gainesville, Florida, in 1971.
  He ended his career in the school system in the county 
administrator's office, having served in the Alachua County school 
system for over 31 years.
  While his students remember him for his dedication to shaping young 
minds, Mr. Coward is known in the community at large for being the 
first African American elected to serve on the Alachua County 
Commission in 1974. It is a seat he held for over 18 years. 
Incidentally, it was the first time since the Reconstruction Era that 
an African American had been elected to the Alachua County Commission.
  During his tenure, he helped to establish the first Office of Equal 
Opportunity and focused on economic development through the community, 
in particular east Gainesville.
  In fact, his document ``Plan East Gainesville'' is still frequently 
referred to as a planned vision for that community.
  His time on the county commission inspired him to help found the 
National Forum for Black Public Administrators and the National 
Association of Black County Commissioners.
  Additionally, he owned and operated Thomas Coward Realty for 25 
years, he was the first African American to receive his brokerage 
license in Alachua County, and he was a member of the National 
Association of Realtors.
  Throughout his life, he continued to lead and inspire his community 
through positions such as the president of the State Regional Planning 
Board and as a board member for the East Gainesville Task Force and the 
Chamber of Commerce.
  Additionally, he was involved in organizations such as the 
Gainesville Cotton Club, the Elks, the Phi Beta Sigma fraternity, all 
of which focused on serving the community and, in the case of the 
Cotton Club, helping to preserve history while revitalizing the 
building to reopen as a museum and cultural center.
  His leadership and dedication to our community led to the Alachua 
County Commission dedicating their Community Support Services 
Auditorium to him in 2016.
  Once quoted as saying ``My idea is if you are going to change things, 
then you have got to be involved,'' Mr. Coward embodied this idea and 
held the title of many firsts throughout his life. I have no doubt his 
legacy of leadership and service will go on to better our community 
through future generations.
  Mr. Speaker, his legacy has and will inspire the future of our 
county, our State, and yes, our Nation. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Coward 
for his service to all. He will be missed.

                          ____________________



