

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1607-H1608]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 5268. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security, through 
     the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
     to make grants to eligible local education agencies to 
     provide improved security measures on school grounds, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 5269. A bill to require State or territorial approval 
     of restriction by the Secretary of the Interior and the 
     Secretary of Commerce of recreational or commercial fishing 
     access to certain State or territorial waters, respectively; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself, Mr. Barton, Mr. Cramer, 
             Mr. Barr, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, and Mr. 
             McKinley):
       H.R. 5270. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a credit against tax for coal-powered electric 
     generation units; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H.R. 5271. A bill to repeal certain impediments to the 
     administration of the firearms laws; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mrs. Comstock, 
             and Mr. Gibbs):
       H.R. 5272. A bill to ensure that programs and activities 
     that are funded by a grant, cooperative agreement, loan, or 
     loan guarantee from the Department of Health and Human 
     Services, and whose purpose is to prevent or treat a mental 
     health or substance use disorder, are evidence-based; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
             McCaul, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Keating, and Mr. 
             Cook):
       H.R. 5273. A bill to reduce global fragility and violence 
     by improving the capacity of the United States to reduce and 
     address the causes of violence, violent conflict, and 
     fragility in pilot countries, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, and Mr. Roskam):
       H.R. 5274. A bill to promote international exchanges on 
     best election practices, cultivate more secure democratic 
     institutions around the world, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LONG (for himself, Mr. Costa, Mr. Conaway, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Perry, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mrs. 
             Wagner, Mr. Bost, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Goodlatte, Ms. 
             Cheney, Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Womack, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
             Crawford, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Mr. Valadao, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Thomas J. 
             Rooney of Florida, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Pearce, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Harper, Mr. Harris, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. 
             Rouzer, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Rokita, Ms. 
             Jenkins of Kansas, Ms. Sinema, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. 
             Schrader, Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. Emmer, Mr. 
             Bishop of Utah, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Smucker, 
             Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Gallagher, 
             Mr. Buck, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Blum, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Ratcliffe, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Kustoff of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Barton, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Yoder, Ms. Blunt Rochester, 
             Mr. Grothman, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. 
             Davidson, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Vela, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Thornberry, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. 
             Westerman, Mr. Renacci, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, 
             Mrs. Roby, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Mullin, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Marino, 
             Mr. Denham, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Thompson 
             of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Gibbs):
       H.R. 5275. A bill to amend the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to provide 
     an exemption from certain notice requirements and penalties 
     for air emissions from animal waste at farms; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 5276. A bill to modernize the Food for Peace Program 
     in the United States Agency for International Development, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself and Mr. Stivers):
       H.R. 5277. A bill to require the Financial Literacy and 
     Education Commission to establish and publish best practices 
     for teaching financial literacy for institutions of higher 
     education, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself, Mr. Yoho, and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 5278. A bill to make daylight savings time permanent 
     for the State of Florida, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself and Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 5279. A bill to make daylight savings time permanent, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. CUELLAR:
       H.R. 5280. A bill to designate the Federal building and 
     United States courthouse located at 1300 Victoria Street in 
     Laredo, Texas, as the ``George P. Kazen Federal Building and 
     United States Courthouse'', and to designate the jury room in 
     that Federal building and United States courthouse as the

[[Page H1608]]

     ``Marcel C. Notzon II Jury Room''; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Norman, 
             Mr. Sanford, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, and Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 5281. A bill to provide for congressional review of 
     the imposition of duties and other trade measures by the 
     executive branch, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Kind, 
             Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Meehan, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Holding, Ms. Sanchez, 
             Mr. Rice of South Carolina, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mrs. 
             Walorski, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Sessions, Ms. Adams, Mr. 
             Gibbs, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 5282. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to encourage retirement savings, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 5283. A bill to make technical amendments to update 
     statutory references to certain provisions classified to 
     title 7, title 20, and title 43, United States Code; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 5284. A bill to amend chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to provide for Congressional oversight of agency 
     rulemaking, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself and Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 5285. A bill to condition eligibility for a Federal 
     license to deal in firearms on the passage of an online 
     behavioral awareness training course, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Ms. Gabbard, and Mr. King of 
             New York):
       H.R. 5286. A bill to impose a 60-day moratorium on the 
     transfer or receipt of an assault rifle, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PEARCE (for himself and Mr. Heck):
       H.R. 5287. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     clarify the exclusion for seller-financers from the 
     definition of mortgage originator, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself and Mr. Heck):
       H.R. 5288. A bill to delay the effective date of the rule 
     issued by the National Credit Union Administration titled 
     ``Risk-Based Capital''; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. ROKITA:
       H.R. 5289. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit any individual serving as President or Vice 
     President or as a Member of Congress, or any individual who 
     served as an employee of the office of the President or Vice 
     President or the office of a Member of Congress, from 
     engaging in any lobbying activity after serving in such a 
     position, to amend title 41, United States Code, to prohibit 
     executive agencies from awarding contracts to former elected 
     officials, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SANFORD:
       H.R. 5290. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     require the disclosure, public documentation, and reporting 
     of Federal employee bonuses, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. TSONGAS (for herself, Mr. Grijalva, and Mr. 
             Keating):
       H.R. 5291. A bill to establish an offshore wind career 
     training grant program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself and Mr. Graves of Missouri):
       H. Res. 779. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of March 12 through 16, 2018, as 
     ``Public Education Week''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Mast, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Shuster, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Tipton, Mrs. Brooks 
             of Indiana, Mr. Harper, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Poliquin, 
             Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Norman, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Estes of Kansas, Mr. Babin, 
             and Mr. Dunn):
       H. Res. 781. A resolution recognizing Girl Scouts of the 
     United States of America on its 106th birthday and the 
     importance of leadership development for girls; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Gaetz, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Pocan, 
             Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Schiff, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Himes, and 
             Mr. Polis):
       H. Res. 782. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of March 14, 2018, as ``National Pi Day''; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself and Mr. Joyce of Ohio):
       H. Res. 783. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of September as ``National Brain Aneurysm 
     Awareness Month''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Ms. Tenney, Mr. King of 
             New York, and Mr. Faso):
       H. Res. 784. A resolution honoring Chris Mazdzer of Saranac 
     Lake, New York, for proudly representing the United States in 
     three consecutive Olympic Winter Games; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



