

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H168-H169]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. 
             Jayapal, and Ms. DelBene):
       H.R. 4766. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     prohibit further extension of requirement to implement 
     positive train control beyond December 31, 2018, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Demings, 
             and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 4767. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to establish a grant program for 
     jurisdictions with high rates of violent crime, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for himself and Ms. 
             Sinema):
       H.R. 4768. A bill to require the President to develop a 
     national strategy to combat the financial networks of 
     transnational organized criminals, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 4769. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     increase awareness about the treatment referral routing 
     service of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
     Administration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida:
       H.R. 4770. A bill to amend the Gulf of Mexico Energy 
     Security Act of 2006 to permanently extend the moratorium on 
     leasing in certain areas of the Gulf of Mexico; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself, Mr. Gottheimer, and Mr. 
             Meeks):
       H.R. 4771. A bill to raise the consolidated assets 
     threshold under the small bank holding company policy 
     statement, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, and Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4772. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for clarification under the Medicare 
     program about minimal self-adjustment for off-the-shelf 
     orthotics; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 4773. A bill to require the Administrator for General 
     Services to obtain an antivirus product to make available to 
     Federal agencies in order to provide the product to 
     individuals whose personally identifiable information may 
     have been compromised; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Clark 
             of Massachusetts, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Himes, Mr. Keating, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Lynch, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Neal, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Mr. Welch, and Mr. Poliquin):
       H.R. 4774. A bill to prohibit oil and gas leasing on the 
     outer Continental Shelf off the coast of New England; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Hoyer, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Sherman, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Slaughter, and Mr. 
             Sires):
       H.R. 4775. A bill to increase the rates of pay under the 
     statutory pay systems and for prevailing rate employees by 3 
     percent, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 4776. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize a program of partnerships for State and regional 
     hospital preparedness to improve surge capacity; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. FRANKEL of Florida (for herself, Mr. Schweikert, 
             Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Poe of Texas, and 
             Mr. Himes):
       H.R. 4777. A bill to amend section 214(c)(8) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to modify the data reporting 
     requirements relating to nonimmigrant employees, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Engel, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mrs. Dingell, and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 4778. A bill to strengthen parity in mental health and 
     substance use disorder benefits; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Education 
     and the Workforce, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska, Mr. Polis, and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 4779. A bill to protect States and individuals in 
     States that have laws which permit the use of cannabis, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Financial Services, and Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Faso, 
             Mr. Marshall, Mr. Garrett, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. 
             Davidson, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Bacon, and 
             Mr. Stivers):
       H.R. 4780. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to make available an online tax calculator to estimate the 
     change in an individual's income tax liability with respect 
     to the amendments made by the Tax Cuts and

[[Page H169]]

     Jobs Act; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 4781. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     transfer certain National Forest System land to Custer 
     County, South Dakota; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. PLASKETT (for herself, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Crowley, and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 4782. A bill to provide additional disaster recovery 
     assistance for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the United 
     States Virgin Islands, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Financial 
     Services, Agriculture, Ways and Means, Natural Resources, 
     Education and the Workforce, the Budget, and Science, Space, 
     and Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 4783. A bill to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to improve the scheduling of 
     appointments, the accountability of third party 
     administrators, and payment to providers under such Act, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Ms. Norton, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Hastings, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Meeks, 
             Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Ellison, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, Ms. Lee, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Payne, Mr. Lowenthal, and Mr. Gonzalez of Texas):
       H.R. 4784. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to provide funding for American Health 
     Benefit Exchanges navigator programs and outreach and 
     promotional activities; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. NUNES:
       H. Con. Res. 98. Concurrent resolution directing the 
     Secretary of the Senate to make a correction in the 
     enrollment of the bill S. 139; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself, Mr. Gallagher, and Mr. 
             Engel):
       H. Res. 684. A resolution objecting to the United Nations 
     General Assembly Resolution A/RES/ES-10/19, which criticizes 
     the United States' recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of 
     the State of Israel; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. FOXX:
       H. Res. 685. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; which 
     was considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. GOMEZ (for himself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
             Khanna, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Meng, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Peters, Ms. Norton, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Woodall, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Gabbard, Mrs. Comstock, and 
             Mrs. Napolitano):
       H. Res. 686. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Korean American Day; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
       H. Res. 687. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that Federal, State, and local taxes, 
     fees, regulations, and permitting policies should be 
     coordinated and reconciled to maximize the benefits of 
     broadband investment; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRADY of Texas (for himself, Mr. Walden, Mr. 
             Neal, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Burgess, Mr. 
             Levin, and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H. Res. 688. A resolution honoring Mark E. Miller for his 
     distinguished public service and professional assistance to 
     the United States Congress; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUDSON:
       H. Res. 689. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that any infrastructure legislation that 
     provides Federal funds to wireless broadband providers to 
     promote wireless broadband deployment should prioritize funds 
     for wireless broadband providers in States that have enacted 
     streamlined siting requirements for small cells; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LANCE:
       H. Res. 690. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that no Federal funds granted, awarded, or 
     loaned pursuant to any legislation, infrastructure-specific 
     or otherwise, should be used to fund the construction, 
     improvement, or acquisition of broadband facilities or 
     service in areas where there is an existing broadband 
     provider that meets certain minimum standards; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LATTA:
       H. Res. 691. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that any infrastructure legislation to 
     promote broadband internet access or communications 
     facilities deployment should treat all broadband and 
     communications facilities in a competitively and 
     technologically neutral manner; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.

                          ____________________



