

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H782-H783]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. MITCHELL (for himself and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 4921. A bill to require the Surface Board of 
     Transportation to implement certain recommendations of the 
     Inspector General of the Department of Transportation; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 4922. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     list fentanyl analogues as schedule I controlled substances; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ISSA:
       H.R. 4923. A bill to make exclusive the authority of the 
     Federal Government to regulate the labeling of products made 
     in the United States and introduced in interstate

[[Page H783]]

     or foreign commerce, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Ms. Lofgren, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Walker, Mr. Smith of 
             Nebraska, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Byrne, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Deutch, and Mrs. Brooks of Indiana):
       H.R. 4924. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to reform the procedures provided under such Act 
     for the initiation, investigation, and resolution of claims 
     alleging that employing offices of the legislative branch 
     have violated the rights and protections provided to their 
     employees under such Act, including protections against 
     sexual harassment, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on House Administration, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. Mitchell):
       H.R. 4925. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     Federal Railroad Administration to implement certain 
     recommendations for management and collection of railroad 
     safety data; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 4926. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas 
     emission fees, reduce the rate of the corporate income tax, 
     provide tax credits to workers, deliver additional benefits 
     to retired and disabled Americans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, Veterans' 
     Affairs, Energy and Commerce, and Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRAT:
       H.R. 4927. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     limit the authority of district courts to provide injunctive 
     relief, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. BRAT:
       H.R. 4928. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     provide that the United States district court for the 
     District of Columbia shall have exclusive jurisdiction over 
     actions arising under the immigration laws, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. Gianforte, Mr. Cooper, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Schrader, and Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 4929. A bill to amend the Improper Payments 
     Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012, including 
     making changes to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for improved 
     detection, prevention, and recovery of improper payments to 
     deceased individuals, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CULBERSON:
       H.R. 4930. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act with respect to Federal 
     assistance to individuals and households, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Harper, Mr. Beyer, 
             Mr. Sessions, and Mr. Foster):
       H.R. 4931. A bill to establish the Transition to 
     Independence demonstration program; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Takano, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             Barragan, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Norton, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Payne, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, and Ms. McCollum):
       H.R. 4932. A bill to address the disparate impact of 
     climate change on women and support the efforts of women 
     globally to address climate change, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 4933. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds to 
     implement the policy changes in the notices terminating 
     temporary status for natives of Nicaragua, Haiti, and El 
     Salvador, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SANFORD:
       H.R. 4934. A bill to prohibit assistance to the Government 
     of Pakistan, and to require the Department of State and the 
     United States Agency for International Development to 
     transfer amounts to the Highway Trust Fund equivalent to 
     historic levels of assistance to Pakistan; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Appropriations, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for himself, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Rush, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 4935. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide a penalty for assault against journalists, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H.J. Res. 128. A joint resolution making a further 
     extension of continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2018, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, 
     and in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H. Con. Res. 102. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center for an 
     event to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of 
     Frederick Douglass; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Zeldin, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Ms. Granger, Mr. Engel, Mr. Roskam, Mr. 
             Veasey, and Mr. Smith of New Jersey):
       H. Con. Res. 103. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of Emancipation Hall for a ceremony as part of the 
     commemoration of the days of remembrance of victims of the 
     Holocaust; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Ellison, 
             Ms. Bass, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Lee, Mr. Levin, 
             Mr. Vargas, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Huffman, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. O'Rourke, and Ms. 
             Lofgren):
       H. Res. 723. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week of February 5, 2018, through February 
     9, 2018, as ``National School Counseling Week''; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Ms. Lofgren, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Walker, Mr. Smith of 
             Nebraska, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Byrne, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Deutch, and Mrs. Brooks of Indiana):
       H. Res. 724. A resolution requiring each employing office 
     of the House of Representatives to adopt an anti-harassment 
     and anti-discrimination policy for the office's workplace, 
     establishing the Office of Employee Advocacy to provide legal 
     assistance and consultation to employees of the House 
     regarding procedures and proceedings under the Congressional 
     Accountability Act of 1995, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ethics, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.

                          ____________________



