

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S586]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   SENATE RESOLUTION 389--COMMEMORATING THE COMMISSIONING OF THE USS 
                               ``OMAHA''

  Mrs. FISCHER (for herself and Mr. Sasse) submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 389

       Whereas the great city of Omaha, Nebraska, was founded on 
     July 4, 1854;
       Whereas the Lone Tree Ferry bringing pioneers across the 
     Missouri River into Omaha caused Omaha to become known as the 
     ``Gateway to the West'';
       Whereas Nebraska is the only triply landlocked State in the 
     Union;
       Whereas the first USS Omaha was a screw sloop launched in 
     1869, 2 years after Nebraska became a State on March 1, 1867;
       Whereas the second USS Omaha (CL-4) was an Omaha class 
     light cruiser commissioned on February 24, 1923;
       Whereas the USS Omaha (CL-4) served in both the Pacific and 
     Atlantic theaters and captured a German blockade runner a 
     month before World War II officially began;
       Whereas the Nebraska Admirals Association, formed in 1931, 
     has had thousands of Admirals commissioned in the Nebraska 
     Navy to promote ``The Good Life'';
       Whereas the Big Red Sub Club--
       (1) was formed to support the crews of the USS Nebraska 
     (SSBN-739); and
       (2) is the most active State organization supporting the 
     submarine fleet of the United States;
       Whereas the Navy League of the United States, Nebraska 
     Council, strongly supports a strong United States Navy for 
     national security;
       Whereas on June 11, 2012, Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus 
     announced that an Independence class littoral combat ship 
     would be named the United States Ship Omaha;
       Whereas on November 20, 2015, the United States Navy 
     launched the USS Omaha;
       Whereas on December 19, 2015, the USS Omaha was christened 
     in Mobile, Alabama, sponsored by Omaha philanthropist Susie 
     Buffett; and
       Whereas on February 3, 2018, the USS Omaha will be 
     commissioned: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate commemorates--
       (1) the commissioning of the United States Ship Omaha (LCS-
     12); and
       (2) the mission of the USS Omaha as a networked, agile, 
     stealthy surface combatant capable of defeating antiaccess 
     and asymmetric threats in the littorals.

  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise this evening to call up and pass 
a resolution recognizing the commissioning of the USS Omaha.
  This weekend, the USS Omaha is scheduled to be commissioned in the 
United States Navy as one of our newest Independence Class Littoral 
Combat Ships.
  As the only triply landlocked State in the union, you may not think 
of Nebraska when you think about the world's oceans.
  And while we are proud of our heartland heritage, we are equally 
proud of the ships that have carried the name ``USS Omaha'' to the far 
corners of the globe.
  Just two years after Nebraska became a State, the USS Omaha, a screw 
sloop, was launched in 1869, helping to grow our young Nation's navy.
  The second USS Omaha, launched in 1923, served with distinction in 
World War II, capturing a German blockade runner a month before the war 
officially began.
  And now this upcoming weekend, we welcome the newest USS Omaha, LCS-
12, which carries the distinction of being among our Nation's newest 
Littoral Combat Ships.
  She will enter the navy as an agile surface combatant, and one which 
I know will prove to be a capable tool in our Nation's naval arsenal.
  Though Nebraska may be far from open water that has not stopped 
countless men and women from our State from answering the call to serve 
in the United States Navy.
  Their service and sacrifice, both in times of war and peace, have 
helped ensure that the United States continues to enjoy freedom of 
navigation around the world.
  For that reason, I am honored to know that now we will once again 
have another USS Omaha carrying on this proud tradition, and urge my 
colleagues to join me in recognizing this momentous occasion.
  To the crew of the USS Omaha, I wish you well in your mission and all 
the years of distinguished service to come.
  May you enjoy fair winds and following seas, and know that you have 
the best wishes of the State of Nebraska behind you.
  Thank you Mr. President. I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



