

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S167-S168]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Cruz):
       S. 2293. A bill to amend section 214(c)(8) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to modify the data reporting 
     requirements relating to nonimmigrant employees, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Ms. Warren):
       S. 2294. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that individuals may access documentation verifying 
     the monthly housing stipend paid to the individual under the 
     Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

[[Page S168]]

  

           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cardin, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mr. Warner, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. 
             Van Hollen):
       S. 2295. A bill to increase the rates of pay under the 
     General Schedule and other statutory pay systems and for 
     prevailing rate employees by 3.0 percent, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. JOHNSON:
       S. 2296. A bill to increase access to agency guidance 
     documents; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 2297. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     transfer certain National Forest System land to Custer 
     County, South Dakota; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Markey, Ms. Hassan, 
             Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Reed, Mr. King, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Collins, and Mr. Murphy):
       S. 2298. A bill to prohibit oil and gas leasing on the 
     Outer Continental Shelf off the coast of New England; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr. Udall):
       S. 2299. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     provide wildfire regulatory relief, to modify the evaluation 
     of a major disaster declaration request, to provide 
     regulatory relief for banks during major disasters, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Schumer):
       S. 2300. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 111 Market Street in 
     Saugerties, New York, as the ``Maurice D. Hinchey Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Smith, Mr. Markey, Mr. Booker, Mr. 
             Murphy, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Kaine, Ms. 
             Harris, and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 2301. A bill to strengthen parity in mental health and 
     substance use disorder benefits; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 2302. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     convey certain Bureau of Land Management land in Cache 
     County, Utah, to the city of Hyde Park, Utah, for public 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 2303. A bill to amend title XXVII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to preserve consumer and employer access to 
     licensed independent insurance producers; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
             Tester, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Burr, Mr. 
             Schatz, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Scott, and 
             Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 2304. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     protect veterans from predatory lending, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN:
       S. 2305. A bill to require a study and report on the 
     housing and service needs of victims of trafficking and 
     individuals at risk for trafficking; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

                          ____________________



