

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1211-H1212]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. HARPER:
       H.R. 5030. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to provide for technical assistance for small 
     treatment works; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Faso, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, and Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen):
       H.R. 5031. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     provide for prize competitions relating to climate and 
     energy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI:
       H.R. 5032. A bill to establish a pilot toll credit 
     marketplace program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI:
       H.R. 5033. A bill to set aside certain funds for 
     supplementary safety measures and alternative safety measures 
     for railway-highway grade crossings, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr. Engel, Mrs. Lowey, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Cartwright, 
             Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Crowley, Mr. 
             Cummings, Ms. DeGette, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Heck, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Ms. Lee, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney 
             of New York, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Ms. Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Payne, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. David Scott 
             of Georgia, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Sires, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. 
             Titus, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Welch, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 5034. A bill to prevent international violence against 
     women, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 5035. A bill to require the President to determine 
     whether Hezbollah should be designated as a significant 
     foreign narcotics trafficker or a transnational criminal 
     organization, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 5036. A bill to establish an Independent Financial 
     Technology Task Force, to provide rewards for information 
     leading to convictions related to terrorist use of digital 
     currencies, to establish a FinTech Leadership in Innovation 
     Program to encourage the development of tools and programs to 
     combat terrorist and illicit use of digital currencies, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR (for himself, Mr. Davidson, Ms. 
             Tenney, and Mr. McHenry):
       H.R. 5037. A bill to provide for exclusive Federal 
     jurisdiction over civil securities fraud actions, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. PALAZZO (for himself and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 5038. A bill to amend titles 5, 10, and 37 of the 
     United States Code to ensure that an order to serve on active 
     duty under section 12304b of title 10, United States Code, is 
     treated the same as other orders to serve on active duty for 
     determining the eligibility of members of the uniformed 
     services for certain benefits, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana (for himself and Mr. Rokita):
       H.R. 5039. A bill to designate the National Airmail Museum 
     at Smith Air Field in Fort Wayne, Indiana; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 5040. A bill to authorize the President to control the 
     export, reexport, and transfer of commodities, software, and 
     technology to protect the national security, and to promote 
     the foreign policy, of the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, and Mr. 
             Hudson):
       H.R. 5041. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     authorize the employees of a hospice program to handle 
     controlled substances in the residence of a deceased hospice 
     patient to assist in disposal; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Tonko, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Pocan, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Norton, Ms. Kuster 
             of New Hampshire, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Raskin, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Connolly, Ms. Lee, Mr. Welch, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Walz, and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 5042. A bill to establish the Financing Energy 
     Efficient Manufacturing Program at the Department of Energy 
     to provide financial assistance to promote energy efficiency 
     and onsite renewable technologies in manufacturing 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Carson 
             of Indiana, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Moore, and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 5043. A bill to permit expungement of records of 
     certain nonviolent criminal offenses, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself and Mr. Bergman):
       H.R. 5044. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the treatment of certain surviving spouses under the 
     contracting goals and preferences of Department of Veterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN (for herself and Mrs. Napolitano):
       H.R. 5045. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow taxpayers to designate overpayments of tax as 
     contributions and to make additional contributions to the 
     Stop Homelessness Fund, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means,

[[Page H1212]]

     and in addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS:
       H.R. 5046. A bill to provide that none of the funds made 
     available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for 
     any fiscal year may be used to carry out section 7 of the 
     National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 
     1965; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Coffman, and Mr. 
             Peters):
       H.R. 5047. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a demonstration program to provide 
     expanded access to medical services through partnerships 
     between Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers and 
     Federally qualified health centers, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 5048. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 
     with respect to eligibility to become a third-party provider, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 5049. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     ensure that each member of the Armed Forces who is discharged 
     or separated from the Armed Forces receives documentation 
     regarding the training and experience of the member; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr. Gaetz, and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 5050. A bill to direct the Attorney General, in 
     enforcing the provisions of the Controlled Substances Act 
     relating to marijuana, to focus on certain enforcement 
     priorities; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 5051. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to revise the shareholder threshold for registration 
     under such Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio (for himself, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             Gabbard, and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 5052. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for patient protection by 
     establishing safe nurse staffing levels at certain Medicare 
     providers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
       H.R. 5053. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to support innovative technology partnerships; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
       H.R. 5054. A bill to provide an exemption for emerging 
     growth companies and other smaller companies from the 
     requirements to use Extensible Business Reporting Language 
     (XBRL) for financial statements and other periodic reporting, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself and Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico):
       H.R. 5055. A bill to amend the Food Security amend the Food 
     Security Act of 1985 to make acequias eligible for 
     assistance, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. McEACHIN (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Brown 
             of Maryland, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Gomez, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Pocan, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Bass, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 5056. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior, 
     Secretary of Defense, and Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     inventory Confederate commemorative works on certain Federal 
     lands, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
     Services, and Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Mr. Moulton, 
             and Mr. Panetta):
       H.R. 5057. A bill to amend the Intelligence Reform and 
     Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 to limit access to 
     classified information, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. McGovern, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Polis, 
             Mr. Correa, Miss Rice of New York, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Heck, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Vargas, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Soto, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Swalwell of California, and Ms. 
             Eshoo):
       H.R. 5058. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to eliminate the annual numerical limitation on U visas, 
     to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to grant work 
     authorization to aliens with a pending application for 
     nonimmigrant status under subparagraph (U) or (T) of section 
     101(a)(15) of such Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself and Mrs. Beatty):
       H.R. 5059. A bill to amend the Home Owners' Loan Act with 
     respect to the registration and supervision of insurance 
     savings and loan holding companies, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself and Mr. Cook):
       H.R. 5060. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to make reforms to the benefits for 
     Public Service Officers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SANFORD:
       H.R. 5061. A bill to amend title 46, United States Code, to 
     limit recovery for certain injuries incurred in shellfish 
     aquaculture activities if a remedy is available; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for himself, Mr. 
             Shimkus, Mr. Peters, Mr. Paulsen, and Mr. Vargas):
       H.R. 5062. A bill to provide for a study by the National 
     Academy of Medicine on the use of genetic and genomic testing 
     to improve health care, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. TENNEY:
       H.R. 5063. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 10565 Steuben Street in 
     Remsen, New York, as the ``Erin Hamlin Post Office''; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 5064. A bill to authorize aboriginal subsistence 
     whaling pursuant to the regulations of the International 
     Whaling Commission and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.R. 5065. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide that individuals who naturalized under title 
     III of that Act, who are affiliated with a criminal gang, are 
     subject to revocation of citizenship, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Foster, Mr. McKinley, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. McNerney, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Slaughter, and Mr. 
             Tonko):
       H. Res. 739. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Engineers Week; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, and in addition to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H. Res. 740. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of March 3, 2018, as World Hearing Day; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



