

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H3100-H3101]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   CELEBRATING NATIONAL LIBRARY WEEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.

[[Page H3101]]

  

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
celebration of National Library Week, which began on Sunday and runs 
through Saturday, April 14.
  This year's theme is Library's Lead, and ballerina Misty Copeland is 
this year's honorary chair.
  First sponsored in 1958, National Library Week is an observance 
sponsored by the American Library Association and libraries across the 
country each April.
  It is time to celebrate the contributions of our Nation's libraries 
and librarians and to promote library use and support. All types of 
libraries--school, public, academic, and special--participate.
  Celebrations during National Library Week include: National Library 
Workers Day, celebrated yesterday, which is a day for library staff, 
users, administrators, and friends groups to recognize the valuable 
contributions made by all library workers.
  National Bookmobile Day, which is celebrated today, recognizes 
contributions of our Nation's bookmobiles and the dedicated 
professionals who make quality bookmobile outreach possible in their 
communities.
  Tomorrow is Take Action for Libraries Day, which is a national 
library advocacy effort.
  Mr. Speaker, this year marks the 60th anniversary of National Library 
Week.
  In the mid-1950s, research showed that Americans were spending less 
on books and more on radios and television and musical instruments. 
Concerned that Americans were reading less, the American Library 
Association and the American Book Publishers formed a nonprofit 
citizens organization called the National Book Committee in 1954.

                              {time}  1015

  The committee's goals range from encouraging people to read in their 
increasing leisure time to improving income and health and developing a 
strong and happy family life.
  In 1957, the committee developed a plan for National Library Week 
based on the idea that, once people were motivated to read, they would 
support and use libraries. With the cooperation of the American Library 
Association and with the help of the Advertising Council, the first 
National Library Week was observed in 1958 with a theme ``Wake Up and 
Read.''
  National Library Week was observed again in 1959, and the American 
Library Association Council voted to continue the annual celebration. 
When the National Book Committee disbanded in 1974, the American 
Library Association assumed full sponsorship. Today, it is an annual 
celebration, marking six decades this year.
  The 2018 honorary chair, Misty Copeland, is not only a best-selling 
author, but she is also the principal dancer at the American Ballet 
Theatre, making her the first African-American woman to ever be 
promoted to that position in the company's 75-year history.
  Misty's passion is giving back, and she has worked with many 
charitable organizations and is dedicated to giving of her time to work 
with and mentor young boys and girls. It is clear that she is an 
excellent role model for our youth and a strong supporter of libraries.
  Mr. Speaker, libraries have always been great equalizers in our 
society. Our libraries promote knowledge as a power and ensure that it 
is within reach of every American, regardless of their personal life 
circumstances.
  From the magnificent Library of Congress to small-town community 
libraries, I wish everyone a happy National Library Week.

                          ____________________



