

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1316]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Murphy, 
             Mr. Markey, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Sanders):
       S. 2477. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 
     to modify the exception to the work requirement; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 2478. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to deny the deduction for advertising and promotional 
     expenses for prescription drugs; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. King, 
             and Ms. Warren):
       S. 2479. A bill to amend the Agricultural Research, 
     Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 to address 
     deferred maintenance at agricultural research facilities, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Ms. Warren):
       S. 2480. A bill to prohibit agreements between employers 
     that directly restrict the current or future employment of 
     any employee; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. KENNEDY:
       S. 2481. A bill to increase the penalties for fentanyl 
     trafficking; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Cornyn, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, and Mr. Young):
       S. 2482. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     require the Attorney General to establish a section within 
     the Department of Justice with responsibility for the 
     enforcement of laws against suspected operatives or agents of 
     foreign governments, to amend title 18, United States Code, 
     to improve enforcement of the Foreign Agents Registration 
     Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cardin, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, 
             Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, 
             Mr. Menendez, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 2483. A bill to provide greater access to higher 
     education for America's students; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. MURRAY:
       S. 2484. A bill to enhance Social Security benefits for 
     children, divorced spouses, and widows and widowers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN:
       S. 2485. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide payment of Medal of Honor special pension under such 
     title to the surviving spouse of a deceased Medal of Honor 
     recipient, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 2486. A bill to repeal the Gun-Free School Zones Act of 
     1990 and amendments to that Act; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Thune):
       S. 2487. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to provide certain 
     data on conservation practices, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Jones, Mr. Van Hollen, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Smith, Ms. 
             Cantwell, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 2488. A bill to amend title 37, United States Code, to 
     exclude the receipt of basic allowance for housing for 
     members of the Armed Forces in determining eligibility for 
     certain Federal benefits, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP:
       S. 2489. A bill to amend the Housing Act of 1949 to extend 
     the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to make loans 
     to certain entities for housing and buildings on adequate 
     farms, to establish a technical assistance program to improve 
     access by Tribal entities to rural development programs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.

                          ____________________



