

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1996-S2000]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 F_____
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Claria 
Horn Boom, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the 
Eastern and Western Districts of Kentucky.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Hawaii.
  Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that I be 
permitted to place a maile lei on the lectern during my remarks.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                   Remembering Daniel Kahikina Akaka

  Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, I rise today in remembrance of Senator 
Daniel Kahikina Akaka. Senator Akaka, who served in the Senate for 23 
years and sat at this desk, passed away on Friday morning, with his 
wife of nearly 70 years, Millie, and his extended family at his side.
  Since his passing, people across Hawaii have shared their memories of 
and tributes to Senator Akaka. Each of their stories has a common 
thread--Senator Akaka's dedication to living with ``aloha.'' Senator 
Akaka embodied the ``aloha'' spirit. From meeting nearly every Hawaii 
family who came to his office for a Capitol tour to serving as a 
tireless advocate for veterans, the Native Hawaiian community, and 
Hawaii families, Senator Akaka's care, empathy, and compassion were 
evident to everyone who knew him.
  When I was elected to the Senate, I requested Senator Akaka's desk to 
be my desk. I did this because it represented continuity as Senator 
Akaka's successor, and the desk is a symbol to me of his years of 
service and the ``aloha'' he had for this body and the people of 
Hawaii.
  The last time I saw Senator Akaka was at last year's American 
Logistics Association Hawaii conference. This gathering brings together 
Hawaii businesses from across the State to market their products for 
sale to military commissaries. Over 20 years ago, Senator Akaka worked 
with small businesses and the military commissary network to create 
this conference because he understood how much receiving a commissary 
contract would mean to Hawaii's businesses, especially Hawaii's small 
businesses.
  The conference started with one small table with a few products and 
grew to an entire ballroom full of local products and entrepreneurs. 
Last year, the conference was named for Senator Akaka.
  That is who Senator Akaka was. He brought people together to solve 
problems and create opportunities. His legislative style wasn't flashy 
or over the top. He put his head down and got to work, and he built 
relationships with colleagues to get things done.
  Senator Akaka's work on behalf of our Nation's veterans also 
reflected his persistent, effective style. After serving in World War 
II, Senator Akaka went to college under the GI bill and became an 
educator. As chairman of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, he was 
a strong advocate for expanding the GI bill for a new generation of 
veterans. He authored the post-9/11 GI bill, which was signed into law 
in 2011.
  Senator Akaka also championed the cause of the Filipino veterans of 
World War II in Congress. These veterans fought for the United States 
but were denied the benefits and citizenship they were promised. 
Senator Akaka introduced legislation that would restore these veterans' 
benefits and, with his leadership, this bill passed the Senate.
  Later he and Senator Inouye successfully included language in the 
2009 stimulus bill that provided onetime payments for these Filipino 
veterans through the newly created Filipino Veterans Equity 
Compensation Fund.
  Senator Akaka also introduced bipartisan legislation to allow these 
veterans to reunite with their children and families in the United 
States. While this bill did not pass, President Obama established 
through executive order the Filipino World War II Veterans Parole 
Program in 2016 to allow the children of these veterans to reunite with 
their parents in the United States. Some of these veterans have been 
waiting for decades to reunite with their children.
  Although Senator Akaka had retired, his insistence on bipartisanship 
helped to build broad support for President Obama's decision to issue 
this Executive order.
  Senator Akaka was also instrumental in building support to award the 
Filipino Veterans of World War II the Congressional Gold Medal that 
passed in 2016, after years of continued effort.
  Senator Akaka was also a champion for America's Native people and 
served as chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. As the first 
Native Hawaiian to serve in the U.S. Senate, Senator Akaka fought to 
expand funding for Native Hawaiian healthcare, education, and housing 
programs.
  In 1993, President Clinton signed into law Senator Akaka's apology 
resolution, which acknowledged the Federal Government's role in the 
overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom in 1893. The resolution's unanimous 
passage marked the 100th anniversary of the overthrow and was a 
watershed moment for Native Hawaiians. It served as the first official 
admission by the United States of the role it played in the overthrow 
of the Hawaiian Kingdom.
  Senator Akaka later worked on the Hawaiian Home Lands Recovery Act. 
This law required the United States to make the Hawaiian homelands 
whole by ensuring a repayment of lost use of lands originally set aside 
by Congress but which were nevertheless transferred to or otherwise 
acquired by the Federal Government.
  The apology resolution and the Lands Recovery Act provided the 
foundation for Senator Akaka's namesake legislation--the Native 
Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act, often referred to as the Akaka 
bill, to establish a process to secure Federal recognition for Native 
Hawaiians to achieve parity with the Alaska Natives and American 
Indians.
  When I served in the House of Representatives, I introduced the House 
companion to the Akaka bill and testified about the importance of 
passing this legislation in both the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate. 
Senator Akaka reintroduced the Akaka bill for more than 10 years, but 
it did not pass before he retired.

[[Page S1997]]

  A former longtime Akaka staff member reflected on the Senator's 
commitment to the Native Hawaiian community. She said:

       Senator Akaka worked tirelessly to address the longstanding 
     issues resulting from the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii. 
     He felt strongly that there needed to be a process to bring 
     all parties to the table because without such a process these 
     issues remained festering sources of emotional pain that 
     would stand in the way of Hawaii being able to move forward 
     as a state and for Native Hawaiians to move forward as 
     indigenous peoples.

  Building on his work, in 2016, the Department of the Interior adopted 
rules creating a process that could reestablish a government-to-
government relationship between the United States and Native Hawaiians. 
While the Native Hawaiian community has differences on the issue of 
Federal recognition, everyone can agree that Senator Akaka pushed for 
the passage of the Akaka bill because he wanted equity and justice for 
Native Hawaiian people.
  Senator Akaka's advocacy for our country's Native people could best 
be summarized in his own words during his farewell address to the 
Senate, where he said:

       The United States is a great country. One of the things 
     that makes us so great is that though we have made mistakes, 
     we change, we correct them, we right past wrongs. It is our 
     responsibility as a nation to do right by America's native 
     people, those who exercised sovereignty on lands that later 
     became part of the United States. While we can never change 
     the past, we have the power to change the future.

  Many people also may not know that Senator Akaka was just as 
committed to protecting Hawaii's land and water resources as he was to 
improving the lives of Hawaii's people. In 1992, Senator Akaka 
successfully passed his Tropical Forest Recovery Act into law, which 
served as a basis for Federal conservation efforts that protect 
Hawaii's plants and forests.
  As with so many of his initiatives, the Senator was much ahead of his 
time. This act provided a vision and blueprint for tomorrow's 
conservation ethic, one that stressed the integration of ecology, 
livelihoods, and culture; in short, an ethic that emphasized sacred 
relationship between people and place, community and sustainably 
managed resources.
  Senator Akaka also leaves behind a demonstrated commitment to 
bipartisanship. He was widely known for his faithful attendance at the 
Senate Prayer Breakfast every week. Colleagues who attend that 
breakfast regularly asked me about how he and Millie were doing.
  During his farewell speech, Senator Akaka said:

       In Congress and in our nation, we are truly all together, 
     in the same canoe. If we paddle together in unison, we can 
     travel great distances. If the two sides of the canoe paddle 
     in opposite directions, we will only go in circles.

  Senator Akaka is deeply missed by all the people in Hawaii, and I 
dare say he will be deeply missed by his colleagues in both the U.S. 
House and the Senate. The maile lei is here to signify his devotion and 
commitment to the people of Hawaii.
  I yield the floor to my colleague Senator Brian Schatz.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Hawaii.
  Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, I thank Senator Hirono for her poignant 
remarks, and I want to offer my condolences to the family.
  Senator Daniel Kahikina Akaka died on Friday at the age of 93, 
leaving behind a legacy of integrity, kindness, and service to Hawaii 
and to the Nation.
  In Washington, Senator Akaka was an ambassador of ``aloha.'' He 
showed people kindness, respect, and hospitality rarely seen in this 
town. He didn't just represent Hawaii's interests in the Congress; he 
showed the world what Hawaii represents; in the words of President 
Kennedy, ``all that we are and all that we hope to be.''
  He started that service as a welder in the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers. He fought in World War II in the Pacific arena, traveling to 
places like Tinian and Saipan. When World War II ended, he took 
advantage of the GI bill to attend the University of Hawaii to become a 
teacher--an occupation he never fully left behind.
  Senator Akaka served for 36 years in Congress--14 years in the House 
and 22 in the U.S. Senate. He was loved by colleagues in both parties 
because he was kind to everyone. In fact, he never said a bad word 
about anyone, not even in private. The foundation for his kindness came 
from his faith, which he learned from his mother Annie.
  He was a faithful attendee of the weekly Senate Prayer Breakfast, 
where he would lead Members singing hymns. He always began with the 
history of each song--a tradition he passed on to our own Chaplain, 
Chaplain Black, who continues it today.
  Danny Akaka was also very humble. There were times he didn't get 
credit for the work he did here because he didn't care about the 
credit. He cared about the work, about making a difference for people, 
especially those whom he represented.
  He was deeply convinced that the government could improve people's 
lives because he had seen that in his own life as a beneficiary of the 
GI bill. He would become the Senator who modernized that bill, bringing 
it into the 21st century. He always fought hard for veterans--for their 
benefits and their recognition, no matter the color of their skin or 
their country of origin. When someone once challenged him on the cost 
of benefits for veterans, he answered by saying: ``The price has 
already been paid, many times over, by the service of the brave men and 
women who wore our nation's uniform.''
  Senator Akaka never forgot the costs of war on our country, and he 
did everything he could to make sure his colleagues didn't either. He 
voted against the Iraq war and advocated for peace and nuclear 
nonproliferation throughout his career.
  He was unrelenting when it came to the causes that were most 
important to him. As the only Native Hawaiian to ever serve in the U.S. 
Senate, he never stopped working to see Native Hawaiians recognized in 
a government-to-government relationship with the United States.
  In his years on the Indian Affairs Committee, including as the 
chairman, he successfully sponsored the apology resolution, which 
recognized that the overthrow of the Queen--the only monarch in the 
United States--was illegal and facilitated by agents of our own Federal 
Government.
  This was the theme of Senator Akaka's career--to advocate for people 
who did not have power and for people who were vulnerable. He was a 
champion for the Federal Government employees who, to this day, 
continue to be a punching bag for some. He sponsored the 2012 
Whistleblower Protection Act, which ensures that Federal workers cannot 
be retaliated against if they report waste, fraud, and abuse. That was 
just one of the many things he did to make the Federal Government a 
better employer.
  Senator Akaka also fought for consumers. He helped people who were 
trying to get out of credit card debt. He made sure investors had an 
advocate at the Securities and Exchange Commission, and he protected 
people who sent remittances around the world so they aren't swindled 
out of their hard-earned money.
  Every morning he would begin his day by meeting visitors from Hawaii. 
Those connections to his constituents--to home--drove his work and kept 
him focused on helping Hawaii.
  Much of his work was possible because of the bipartisanship 
relationships he built with other Senators. Some of his best friends in 
the body--Senators Inhofe, Cochran, and Barrasso--were people with whom 
he did not agree very often. Every Member of this body--those who knew 
Senator Akaka and those who didn't--can learn from his legacy--a legacy 
of quiet leadership, of treating others the way you want to be treated, 
and focusing on the things that matter to the people we are here to 
represent.
  I want to end with a few words from Chaplain Black. This is what he 
had to say about Senator Akaka:

       There's something called ethical congruence--it refers to 
     when your actions back up your rhetoric. And most of us 
     struggle with that, because it's very easy to say something 
     but much more difficult to live it. There's a verse in 
     Scripture that says, we are living letters, so our lives 
     should be something that people should be able to read. 
     Francis of Assisi said: preach the gospel everywhere you go; 
     when necessary, use words. Senator Akaka preached the gospel 
     everywhere he went, and very rarely had to use words. That's 
     the kind of ethical congruence that he had.


[[Page S1998]]


  The U.S. Senate and our country would be better off if there were 
more leaders like Danny. He fought for the vulnerable, promoted peace, 
and looked for common ground. Most of all, he embodied the ``aloha'' 
spirit and showed us all what it means to have a pure heart and be a 
true public servant.
  Our thoughts are with the family of Senator Akaka today, with Millie, 
his children, his grandchildren, his great-grandchildren, and his 
staff. He will be remembered and greatly missed.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Moran). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                        Remembering Zell Miller

  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, on the 23rd day of March, 2018, just a 
little over 2 weeks ago, Zell Bryan Miller of the State of Georgia--
former Member of this body, former Governor of the State of Georgia, 
former State senator in the State of Georgia, former chairman of the 
Democratic Party in the State of Georgia--who contributed immensely to 
his State, passed away at his beloved home in Young Harris, GA, in 
Towns County.
  I am here to pay tribute to Zell and his life and his contributions 
to our country, both for a purposeful reason, as far as a fellow 
Member, but also for a very personal reason for me, because he is an 
individual I met through politics, became one of my best friends 
through politics, and probably had more influence personally on my life 
than anybody else I know in public service.
  As I said, Zell died in Young Harris, GA, the home of Young Harris 
College. Zell Miller was, first of all, a teacher and a writer. He 
wrote over 10 books. He taught. He was educated at the University of 
Georgia. He taught at Young Harris College. He always taught throughout 
his career. Even as Governor and Lieutenant Governor, he was an 
instructor and a teacher. He was professorial, but he was tough as 
nails. There was only one way to do it and that was the Zell way, he 
used to say, and he knew how to get it done.
  He was for four terms the Lieutenant Governor of Georgia. He then ran 
for Governor in 1990. I happened to be his opponent in 1990, and I will 
get to that in just a minute. He won that election. It was pretty 
close. It has gotten a lot closer since then. Pretty soon, when I have 
grandchildren, I am going to tell them all I won. So far, that is not 
the case. But he won, and he was elected twice to be Governor of 
Georgia.
  As Governor of Georgia, he embraced education as a major issue. As I 
said, he was a teacher and was all about teaching. He did something 
that nobody had ever done and in numbers that were very impressive. He 
created what is known as the HOPE Scholarship, funded by the Georgia 
Lottery. A lot of lotteries have been passed and a lot of liquor 
referendums have been passed by promising people that the money was 
going to go to education, but it never really did. In Georgia, the way 
it was done is that it came out of the debates that he and I had in our 
race for Governor. We finally passed a constitutional amendment to 
allow legal gambling in Georgia and then passed the HOPE Scholarship, 
which was where the money went. We tied up all the money made from the 
lottery separately for three things: college scholarships for eligible 
Georgia students, 4-year-old voluntary prekindergarten for Georgia pre-
Ks to the age of 4, and technology and innovation and wiring and 
infrastructure in our public schools.
  The election was in 1990. He was elected in 1990 as the Governor of 
Georgia. He served two terms, but by the end of the decade, the lottery 
had passed. Since its passage, 1.8 million Georgia children have gotten 
their college education--1.8 million--and 1.6 million Georgia 4-year-
olds have gone to prekindergarten voluntarily. Georgia's public schools 
are wired. They are on the internet. We deliver content through 
distance learning. It is at the leading edge of technology in public 
education of any State in the country.
  Now, politicians can take credit for a lot of things, but I don't 
know of anybody who can take credit for 1.8 million college degrees, 
1.4 million prekindergarten programs, wiring schools for the 
information technology of the 21st century, and doing it all based on a 
personal effort and commitment to see to it that the more we are 
educated, the better the State will be.
  I said that Zell was an author. He was an author and a marine. He 
served in the Marine Corps from 1953 to 1956. He wrote a number of 
books about the Marine Corps. He wrote a number of articles about the 
Marine Corps. He wrote one book called ``Corps Values.'' The values he 
learned in the Marine Corps he used throughout his life in education, 
as Governor, as a father, and as a family man.
  Zell's wife is Shirley Miller. Shirley is a wonderful lady, and I got 
to be with her a little bit 2 weeks ago during the services. Zell and 
Shirley are Georgia's forever first family, not just because they were 
Governor and first lady together and Lieutenant Governor and first lady 
together but also because Shirley was a partner with Zell. She wasn't 
just his wife. Shirley worked tirelessly for Zell and for the State of 
Georgia, and to this day, she works tirelessly for our State. During 
Zell's more difficult years--over the last few years having the 
difficulties he had healthwise--Shirley was there to be with Zell every 
single day.
  Zell Miller came to the Congress of the United States in a very 
unique way. Paul Coverdell, who had the seat that I hold today, died. 
Paul was a Republican. He was in his second term as a Republican. Roy 
Barnes was the Governor of Georgia, a Democrat, and when Paul Coverdell 
died, Roy Barnes called Zell up, who was then the immediate past 
Governor, and said: Zell, I need you to go to Washington and serve for 
me because the body is getting pretty close politically up there. We 
need to make sure a Democrat is in that place to replace Paul.
  I wasn't involved in the conversation because I was hoping they were 
going to call me up, which I will get to in a minute. They didn't, but 
they did later. But they hadn't done it at that time. Roy said to Paul: 
You just have to do it for me, Governor Miller. You have to make sure 
that Georgia stays Democratic.
  Zell went on public television and said: I want to accept this 
appointment to the U.S. Senate to fill this seat, but I am going to 
vote like Paul Coverdell.
  He knew how important Paul's service had been in the State. He knew 
the conservative movement had taken the State and was moving in that 
direction. Zell was a man of conscience and principle who recognized 
the importance of the U.S. Senate seat, but, more importantly, he 
recognized the wishes of the voters. He told Roy Barnes, he told me, 
and he told everybody in the State: I am going to take it, but I will 
vote like Paul Coverdell.
  When that 4 years was up of finishing that term of Paul Coverdell, 
Zell Miller decided not to run again. I was in the U.S. House at that 
time, and he ran a press conference here in Washington to say: I will 
not seek reelection. That was in 2003.
  I got on the phone, called my wife, and said: I am going to go see 
Zell. If he is not going to run, I am going to run for that seat. That 
would be a good way to end my career and make a contribution to my 
State.
  I called Zell, and I said: Governor, can I come to see you this 
weekend in Young Harris.
  He said: Yes, come on.
  So I got in my pickup truck, which is a good way to drive in North 
Georgia, where a pickup truck is a standard operating vehicle. It was 
kind of a snowflake morning in North Georgia and the North Georgia 
mountains in Young Harris. I sat down with Zell at the fireplace, with 
Woodrow and Gus, the two dogs, talking about politics. Finally, I got 
around to the subject of saying: Well, Zell, the reason I am here is 
that you announced that you are not going to run for reelection. I want 
to know if you have any issue with my running to replace you.
  He said: Put your shoes on, son. You can win that seat. Let me know 
what I can do to help you.
  I have never forgotten the encouragement, never forgotten what he 
said, and never forgotten the challenge I felt I had to thank the guy 
who had beaten me for Governor in 1990--to make a

[[Page S1999]]

statement like that when I was going to seek to replace him in the U.S. 
Senate 24 years later. It made a lot of difference to me in my life.
  Zell was a unique individual, and there has never been one like him. 
He was a Democrat the day he was born, and he was a Democrat the day he 
died.
  A lot of people remember he wrote a book, ``A National Party No 
More,'' which made a lot of Democrats mad. He spoke at the Democratic 
National Convention and made a lot of Republicans mad, and then he 
spoke at the Republican National Convention--the only elected person in 
history to deliver the keynote address at both national conventions, 
Republican and Democratic--not in the same year but in the same decade.
  Zell said what he thought, he thought what he said was right, and he 
delivered on everything he ever said, and if he ever was wrong, he 
apologized. In his latter years, he appointed many of his former 
opponents to offices of importance in our State.
  For me, this is the first time I can publicly say thank you to Zell 
Miller. I know he is looking down, and I hope he is listening to what I 
am about to say.
  When he beat me in 1990 and when I ran to replace Sam Nunn when Sam 
stepped down in 1996 and lost that seat as well, I thought I was 
through with public service. I had made my best effort and done as well 
as I could serving in the legislature but couldn't make it to that 
higher place.
  After I had run for Sam Nunn's seat, about 2 months after the race 
was over, Zell called me up, in August 1996, and said: Johnny, I have a 
problem. I have a Republican State school superintendent and a 
Democratic legislature, and they are fighting like hell, and I can't 
solve the problem. But if I name you as school board chairman, then you 
can come over here and balance this out, get the politics out of it, 
and help to solve the problem.
  Governor, I appreciate that, but I know what happens on a school 
board: You have 11 members on the board. I am chairman, and there are 
10 other people who vote. You can't change 10 people's minds unless you 
know who those 10 people are.
  He said: You tell me who else to appoint. I will fire the others and 
appoint the new people. Come over to the mansion.
  So I went over to the mansion, and we sat there with his operator at 
the telephone desk and for 2 hours called people I knew I could trust 
and believed in to help me with public education. I asked them to serve 
with me on the State board of education, take it over, clean up the 
mess which had taken place and which Zell acknowledged thoroughly.
  I accepted, he made the appointment, and over 2 years, we had a 
remarkable time period. In large measure because I thought my political 
career was over, I didn't think about what I was doing as much 
politically as I thought practically for kids. Zell wanted very much to 
see public education as the apex of his career, and so he wanted to 
make sure in that second term, it was. I accepted. He worked hard. We 
joined together, and we--to this day--had a great period of time for 
public education in our State in terms of improvement, cashing in on 
the HOPE scholarship, and doing all the things that we did later on.
  I could go on and on, but I will just say this: I have worked with a 
lot of people, and I have known a lot of people. I have never known a 
better one than Zell Miller. I have never known anyone more true to 
their word, more solid to be counted on, who accepted their oath of 
office and every responsibility that went with it, who would say they 
were sorry when they needed to say they were sorry and would fight like 
hell when they needed to fight like hell and would never take no for an 
answer if they wanted you to do the right thing for the State of 
Georgia.
  For me on this night in Washington, DC, having gone to the funeral of 
my dear friend Zell Miller, having shared with his family and many 
others who loved him as I have over the years during those 2 days in 
Atlanta, let me close by saying that one of Georgia's greatest citizens 
and probably our greatest Governor, Georgia's first family in 
perpetuity, Zell and Shirley Miller, will be missed greatly by our 
State and will be missed greatly by me. I thank God I had the 
opportunity to know Zell Bryan Miller and learn from him in the best 
way you can, and that is by working for him.
  God bless you, Zell. Thank you for what you did on behalf of the 
people of Georgia. God bless you and the United States of America.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                             Cloture Motion

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays before 
the Senate the pending cloture motion, which the clerk will state.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

  We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the provisions of 
rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby move to bring 
to a close debate on the nomination of Claria Horn Boom, of Kentucky, 
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern and Western 
Districts of Kentucky.
         Mitch McConnell, Jerry Moran, John Cornyn, John Hoeven, 
           John Kennedy, Johnny Isakson, Chuck Grassley, Cory 
           Gardner, James E. Risch, Thom Tillis, Pat Roberts, 
           David Perdue, Mike Rounds, John Thune, Roy Blunt, 
           Richard Burr, Tom Cotton.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Ernst). By unanimous consent, the 
mandatory quorum call has been waived.
  The question is, Is it the sense of the Senate that debate on the 
nomination of Claria Horn Boom, of Kentucky, to be United States 
District Judge for the Eastern and Western Districts of Kentucky, shall 
be brought to a close?
  The yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Arizona (Mr. McCain).
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) 
is necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lankford). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The yeas and nays resulted--yeas 96, nays 2, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 64 Ex.]

                                YEAS--96

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Booker
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Gillibrand
     Graham
     Grassley
     Harris
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Hyde-Smith
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--2

     Hirono
     Sanders
       

                             NOT VOTING--2

     Duckworth
     McCain
       
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this vote, the yeas are 96, the nays are 2.
  The motion is agreed to.


            Unanimous Consent Agreement--Executive Calendar

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that at a time 
to be determined by the majority leader, in consultation with the 
Democratic leader, the Senate proceed to executive session for the 
consideration of the following nomination: Executive Calendar No. 376. 
I ask consent that there then be 10 hours of debate, equally divided in 
the usual form; that following the use or yielding back of time, the 
Senate vote on the nomination with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid

[[Page S2000]]

upon the table; that the President be immediately notified of the 
Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that any 
statements relating to the nomination be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. ALEXANDER. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                        Mo Udall and John McCain

  Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, last Wednesday, in Arizona, at the Grand 
Canyon, a number of us gathered to honor Mo Udall and John McCain and 
their friendship and partnership, which made America a lot better.
  For months, John was looking forward to this gathering. He mentioned 
it to me several times last year. He was very excited. You could kind 
of see the sparkle in his eyes, but he was unable to attend because of 
the battle he is fighting. Looking back, the friendship between Mo and 
John was remarkable--how different they were but how well they got 
along.
  In 1982, Arizona could not have elected two more different Members to 
the U.S. House of Representatives. Mo Udall was elected to a 12th term. 
A third-generation Arizonan, Mo was a tall, lanky, Lincolnesque, one-
eyed Mormon who tried to cheat his way into serving in World War II; 
self-effacing and humorous, a liberal Democrat in a conservative State 
who championed the environment and Native Americans and one of the most 
powerful and respected Members of the House, who chaired the Interior 
Committee critical to Arizona's welfare.
  And John McCain, an easterner and newcomer to Phoenix, having arrived 
only 2 years before running for Congress; a carpetbagger, some said; a 
stocky, handsome son and grandson of four-star Navy admirals who easily 
made his way into the U.S. Naval Academy, only to graduate 894 out of 
899 in his class, due to his extreme rebelliousness. John is a man 
self-described as a ``freshman right-wing Nazi'' when he entered 
Congress but as a naval officer who could have been freed from 
imprisonment as a POW in Vietnam, yet refused to leave his men behind 
and instead suffered unimaginable torture and pain for over 5 years.
  Despite his novice as an Arizona politician, John McCain knew enough 
to beg to secure a place on the Interior Committee. At that point, Mo's 
decency and John's courage met. While John was new to Arizona politics 
and, by his own admission, could not tell a copper mine from a cotton 
field, he had promise, being elected president of his minority 
Republican class.
  Mo graciously, and with no political gain in sight that Mo could see, 
took John under his generous, broad wing. Mo taught John the power of 
consensus and bipartisanship, and, in turn, John had the guts to buck 
his own party. Together, they forged a remarkable partnership.
  Mo is marked by graciousness, humility, and humor; John by bombasity, 
independence, and courage. They were a perfect match. They sided 
together to protect the Grand Canyon. They sided together to protect 
Arizona wilderness. They sided together to improve the lives of our 
first Americans. They sided together to upend the campaign finance 
system, to try to make sure politicians are beholden to their 
constituents, not to special interests.
  John took these positions in sharp contrast to his party. After Mo 
retired from the House and John had entered the Senate, John continued 
to take fearless positions. He championed immigration reform. He 
supports curbing methane emissions.
  Many Americans will never forget--and I was standing right about here 
when this happened--when, on July 28, 2017, John McCain stepped into 
the well of the Senate and gave an unexpected thumbs down to his 
party's desperate attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
  In 1982, Mo and John appeared to be worlds apart--Arizona politicians 
representing liberal Tucson and conservative Phoenix, who would 
necessarily be at odds, yet they shared so much. Both stood by their 
principles, but both believed in working across the aisle to get things 
done for the American people. Both put country over personal ambition, 
fame, and fortune. Both were men of integrity, and both were 
courageous. All of us can learn from their duty to country over selves, 
their commitment to working for all Americans, and their dedication to 
working with the party across the aisle to reach consensus.
  Morris King Udall and John Sidney McCain III were unlikely political 
allies and even more unlikely friends, but they were both, and both are 
true American heroes.
  Heroism is not born of words and bravado and bragging; heroism is 
born of silent deeds that help others. Mo and John accomplished much by 
deed. Both are true Arizonans, true Americans, and true heroes.
  I am privileged to have known both men--to have grown up with Uncle 
Mo, to have campaigned with him, and to have shared his stories and 
stolen his jokes and to have served in the Senate and to serve with 
John McCain.
  John and I have worked together on many issues. We have traveled 
internationally. Our work together on the Senate Indian Affairs 
Committee has produced real results for Native Americans.
  After this Grand Canyon event I described in some of the remarks up 
there, I went to visit John at his ranch in Sedona. He is working hard 
to recover and wants to return to the Senate. His spirits are good. He 
was returning calls and working on statements while we visited. He was 
planning ranch projects right in front of us that had to do with the 
cottonwoods that were out in front of us as we were looking out at his 
place. His wonderful wife Cindy, a strong and talented woman in her own 
right, was at his side and working to make sure things were shipshape 
at the ranch. What a unique and loving partnership.
  John, we wish you and Cindy the very best and look forward to your 
speedy return.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, notwithstanding rule XXII, I ask 
unanimous consent that at 12:10 p.m. on Tuesday, April 10, the Senate 
vote on confirmation of the Boom nomination and that if confirmed, the 
motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table and the 
President be immediately notified of the Senate's action; further, that 
the cloture vote in relation to the Ring nomination occur at 2:15 p.m.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



