

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H89]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             TRIBUTE TO FORMER CONGRESSMAN LARRY WINN, JR.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Yoder) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. YODER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and remember the life 
of a long-time public servant in this body, one of my predecessors, 
former Third District Congressman from Kansas, Representative Larry 
Winn.
  Larry passed away on New Year's Eve at the remarkable age of 98, and 
he will be dearly missed by his family and the people of the Third 
District. Larry will long be remembered in our community and in the 
Halls of Congress as a devoted public servant.
  Representative Winn served in this body for 18 years, from 1967 to 
1985. His time in the House spanned across nine Congresses and five 
Presidential administrations, from Lyndon B. Johnson to Ronald Reagan. 
He served alongside some of the great statesmen of his time.
  Larry's freshman class in the House included later President George 
H.W. Bush. Larry and his wife, Joan, became good friends with the 
Bushes, and Joan and Barbara Bush were proud members of a club for 
congressional spouses called the 66 Club.
  Larry became close friends with and greatly respected President 
Gerald Ford, who once visited the Third District and drew a huge crowd 
in my hometown of Overland Park.
  Larry also represented our State, along with one of our most 
prominent Kansans ever, Senator Bob Dole.
  Larry was known as a congenial Member who worked to find consensus 
and develop strong relationships with his colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle. While he spent his entire time in Congress in the minority 
party, he made a priority of seeking out opportunities and friends on 
both sides of the aisle.
  Representative Winn served on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs 
for many years, ultimately becoming the ranking member on the 
committee. During his time working on the Foreign Affairs Committee, 
the United States grappled with major world events such as the Cold 
War, the Vietnam war, and conflict in the Middle East. In addition to 
his role on the Foreign Affairs Committee, he also represented the U.S. 
as a congressional representative to the United Nations, appointed by 
President Reagan. In all of these roles, he was an excellent 
representative of our country to the rest of the world.
  Larry took tremendous pride in serving the people of the Third 
District. Constituent service was always one of his top priorities, and 
he believed that solving problems for his constituents was one of his 
most important responsibilities. If someone had an issue with a Federal 
agency, Larry and his staff would make sure that it got resolved. This 
principle of valuing and serving each individual constituent in the 
district is one that I try to follow to this day trying to fill his 
shoes.
  He lived a great life outside of Congress as well. Larry was an 
alumnus of the University of Kansas school of journalism and a proud 
Jayhawk. I have even heard that he taught lifelong Wildcat current 
Senator Pat Roberts how to ``Wave the Wheat.''
  When World War II began, he was unable to join the military due to 
the loss of one of his legs in an accident; however, he still served 
his country admirably by building airplanes in Kansas City. Other 
accomplishments of his included serving as the director of the National 
Association of Home Builders and the founding of the Kansas City, 
Kansas, Chamber's Congressional Forum, which I have the privilege of 
regularly addressing and is still going on today, starting its 50th 
year.
  Larry was a mentor to me and so many aspiring elected officials in 
Kansas, dispensing valuable advice, and old war stories to help guide 
us along. He had a gift for humor and an ease with people that served 
him well in all of his endeavors. And most of all, he was a great man.
  While we will mourn the loss of Larry, I take comfort knowing that he 
is now being reunited with Joan, his beloved wife of 73 years, who 
passed away in 2015. Larry also leaves behind a large and loving 
family. His legacy will live on through his four children--Larry Winn 
III, Douglas Winn, Janet Payne, and Cynthia Burr--plus 8 grandchildren 
and 16 great-grandchildren.
  Larry's legacy will live on in other public servants whom he mentored 
and inspired. He left an indelible mark on this body, and because of 
his leadership here, Kansas and the United States is better off for it.
  On behalf of the United States Congress, we are thankful for Larry 
Winn's service to our country. He is in God's hands now. May he rest in 
eternal peace.

                          ____________________



