

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1295-S1304]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of A. 
Marvin Quattlebaum, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United States 
District Judge for the District of South Carolina.


                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader is recognized.


               Measure Placed on the Calendar--H.R. 1865

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I understand there is a bill at the 
desk due for a second reading.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will read the bill by title for the 
second time.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (H.R. 1865) to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to clarify that section 230 of such Act does not prohibit the 
     enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
     computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law 
     relating to sexual exploitation of children or sex 
     trafficking, and for other purposes.

  Mr. McCONNELL. In order to place the bill on the calendar under the 
provisions of rule XIV, I object to further proceedings.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection having been heard, the bill will be 
placed on the calendar.


                        Remembering Billy Graham

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday we welcomed the President, 
the Vice President, and the family of the late Reverend Billy Graham as 
he lay in honor in the Capitol. This is a very rare tribute--even rarer 
for an American without government or military service--but it 
perfectly suits the remarkable man whose preaching inspired millions 
worldwide, who counseled Presidents and world leaders across 
generations, and whom an entire nation came to know as America's 
pastor.
  Billy Graham's powerful preaching and his historic revivals brought 
so many closer to God because his work was not ultimately about him. 
``The secret of my work,'' he explained, ``is God. I would be nothing 
without him.'' His personal strengths and talents were mighty, but it 
was his kindness, his humility, and his total fidelity to faith and 
family that defined his life and his ministry.
  I am glad that Congress could honor the great Reverend Graham in this 
way. Yesterday, thousands--thousands--of Americans packed the Rotunda 
down the hall to pay their respects. All across the country, people are 
giving thanks for the extraordinary contributions of this good and 
faithful servant.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. President, on another matter, it has been just over 2 months 
since the united Republican government delivered historic tax reform to 
middle-class families all across the country. How is it working? We 
have all seen the national news. Walmart is giving raises or new 
benefits to more than 1 million hourly workers. Boeing is investing 
$300 million in workforce development and corporate giving. Apple is 
bringing hundreds of billions of dollars back home. But no less 
important are the stories making front-page news in hometown newspapers 
all across our country.
  Thanks to tax reform in North Lima, OH, Sheely's Furniture & 
Appliance is planning to issue $1,000 bonuses to full-time workers and 
expand the sales floor by 4,500 square feet.
  In Cushing, OH--population of 220 people--tax reform is allowing John 
Anfinson to give $1,000 bonuses and 5 percent pay raises to all of his 
employees at the farm store that his grandfather founded in 1918, 100 
years ago.
  ``I work every day shoulder to shoulder with everyone,'' Mr. Anfinson 
explained. ``When you work every day with a group of people, you know 
them and their family. . . . They are the most valuable asset in any 
business.''

[[Page S1296]]

  His customers will also likely be breathing easier. Tax reform is 
enabling farmers and ranchers across America to immediately expense the 
cost of important investments, and it is taking a big bite--a big 
bite--out of the death tax.
  Senators heard stories just like these during last week's State work 
period. Just ask Senator Toomey what tax reform is doing in 
Pennsylvania. He stopped by New Hudson Facades, a manufacturer in 
Linwood. Tax reform enabled them to increase wages by 5 percent, and a 
partner company is contributing $3,000 to every factory worker's 
401(k).
  How about in Montana? Senator Daines' trip across his State took him 
to Pacific Steel in Great Falls, where sales are up 25 percent--sales 
are up 25 percent--since tax reform passed.
  In West Virginia, Senator Capito joined a roundtable at the 
Huntington Regional Chamber of Commerce. She heard from local business 
leaders about ``increased optimism.''
  In Nevada, 90 percent of the small business owners Senator Heller 
recently spoke with said they plan to raise wages, increase benefits, 
award bonuses, hire more workers, or invest in their operations.
  It is a shame our Democratic colleagues still haven't been able to 
extract themselves from their lockstep opposition to this historic law. 
If they had gotten their way, none of this good news would have 
happened--none of it. Only one of the Senators from Pennsylvania voted 
for the law that is allowing that Linwood manufacturer to expand. Only 
one Senator from Ohio voted for the new law that is helping those 
workers in North Lima. Only one Senator from Nevada voted to give small 
businesses the flexibility to invest more in their employees. Only one 
Senator from West Virginia and one Senator from Montana voted to take 
money out of Washington's pocket and put it back in the pockets of the 
middle class.
  Every single Senate Democrat--every one of them--did all they could 
to block tax reform. Fortunately, every Republican voted to pass it. 
And because Congress passed tax reform and the President signed it into 
law, workers and small business owners are already reaping the 
benefits.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                              Gun Violence

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, on Friday, I visited Wilde Lake High 
School in Columbia, which is located in Howard County, MD, between 
Washington and Baltimore. I wanted to talk to students about the tragic 
Valentine's Day shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, in 
Parkland, FL, which left 17 students and faculty members dead. This is 
the deadliest high school shooting in American history. I went to Wilde 
Lake because one of their own teachers, Laura Wallen, was shot to death 
in September 2017, and her former boyfriend is now on trial for her 
murder.
  I was extremely impressed by the passion of these students. They had 
a great deal of interest in the subject matter; they were extremely 
articulate; and they asked great questions. I found it extremely 
encouraging for the future of Howard County, MD, and this Nation. These 
students are rightfully concerned about their safety and the safety of 
their classmates. It has been 2 weeks since a disturbed young man 
invaded Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.
  The reaction seems to be like clockwork after each shooting. There is 
bipartisan shock, anger, and horror. Predictably, the question comes 
out: Will this time be different? The answer for the Republican leaders 
in Congress has always been ``no'' as the outrage and call to act 
quickly falls back to NRA talking points versus reality. This time, the 
students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and the students in 
Maryland and across the country are not taking ``no'' as the final 
word. This time, the survivors are leading the way and are speaking out 
in a forceful way like we have not heard before.
  Students like Ryan Deitsch, a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School, want to know why these students--the children--need to be the 
ones to speak out ``just to save innocent lives,'' he said. He wants to 
know why the adults cannot be the adults and do what is necessary to 
protect children.
  I think the students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School have had 
a clear, articulate message that this carnage needs to stop. They want 
to feel safe in their schools again. Armed with their cell phones and 
their stories, they have taken up the banner of hashtag ``never again'' 
and are changing the face of this debate to make this country safer 
from gun violence.
  Alex Wind, another survivor from Stoneman Douglas, laid out the 
larger problem of why students are mobilizing:

       We're marching because it's not just schools. It's movie 
     theaters, it's concerts, it's nightclubs. This kind of stuff 
     can't just happen. You know, we are marching for our lives, 
     we're marching for the 17 lives we lost. And we're marching 
     for our children's lives and our children's children and 
     their children.

  So what can we do?
  There are several pieces of legislation that are ready to go. The 
Democrats and some Republicans have been willing and ready to act. 
Leader McConnell could move any one of these bills right now. Let's 
start by making it clear that weapons of war are not needed by 
civilians of any age. I have cosponsored S. 2095, the Assault Weapons 
Ban of 2017, offered by Senator Feinstein.
  This legislation would, one, ban the sale, manufacture, transfer, and 
importation of military style assault weapons; two, ban any assault 
weapon that accepts a detachable ammunition magazine and has one or 
more military characteristics; three, ban magazines and other 
ammunition feeding devices that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition, 
which allow shooters to quickly fire many rounds without needing to 
reload.
  The bill also requires a background check on any future sale, trade, 
or gifting of an assault weapon that is covered by the bill, and it 
prohibits the transfer of high-capacity ammunition magazines. It also 
bans bump fire stocks and other devices that allow semiautomatic 
weapons to fire at fully automatic rates. Congress should also pass the 
Background Check Expansion Act, S. 2009, which I have cosponsored and 
has been offered by Senator Murphy.
  This bill would expand Federal background check requirements to 
include the sale or transfer of all firearms by private sellers, just 
as licensed dealers are required to conduct checks for sales under the 
existing Brady Law. The bill requires background checks for the sales 
or transfers of all firearms from one private party to another even if 
either party is not a federally licensed dealer. This requirement 
extends to all unlicensed sellers whether they do business online, at 
gun shows, or out of their homes.
  According to a recent poll, a record 97 percent of those surveyed 
said that they support requiring background checks for gun buyers--97 
percent. Why can't we get this done? It is not a heavy lift. Americans 
are with us on this. We need to recognize that saving children's lives 
is more important than the National Rifle Association.
  Congress also should ease restrictions on gun violence research and 
prevention efforts by removing onerous restrictions on the Centers for 
Disease Control research. We can improve States' sharing of information 
with Federal databases that screen gun buyers.
  At a townhall last week, Senator Rubio, when questioned by an 
audience of students and parents from Stoneman Douglas, said that ``the 
problems we are facing here today cannot be solved by gun laws alone.'' 
With that, I agree, but these gun laws will make a difference. Yes, 
there is no single solution, but we should be united in our willingness 
to do what we can to save lives.
  I agree with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle that we must 
devote more resources to mental health priorities to identify young 
people who may be about to cause harm to themselves or others.

[[Page S1297]]

  Let's attack this problem from multiple directions. We cannot raise 
our hands in the air and give up because there is no one law that can 
solve the problem. Sitting on the sidelines is not an option when our 
children are being killed, sometimes by other children, and 
surrendering to the false logic that the problem is too big to address 
falls well short of what the American people deserve. We were sent here 
to our Nation's Capitol to make the tough decisions and to do the right 
thing.
  I agree with Alex Wind that this problem we need to tackle is larger 
than simply school safety, but I would like to talk about that 
specifically for one moment.
  In an effort to turn the conversation away from an assault weapons 
ban or closing loopholes in background checks, the President decided to 
latch on to this idea that we should arm teachers and educators in our 
schools. We do not need, as President Trump has suggested, more guns in 
the schools, and we do not need teachers carrying guns. We do know that 
teachers are hired to teach, not to be security guards.
  Let's listen to our educators and say no to this proposal. The answer 
to keeping guns and gun violence out of our schools is not to bring 
more guns into the school. The students I talked to at Wilde Lake High 
School in Columbia, MD, understood that adding more guns would not help 
the situation and could lead to more problems in the schools 
themselves. They certainly want to see their buildings more secure, but 
we can do that through infrastructure improvements, technology, and 
school resource officers.
  Why are these things happening in the United States with such 
alarming frequency and not elsewhere around the world? Gun-related 
deaths unfold in tragic circumstances across this country daily, with 
more than 1,800 people killed by guns this year alone, according to the 
Gun Violence Archive, a not-for-profit group. Mass shootings often 
shine the spotlight on the United States and its position as a global 
outlier.
  The number of firearms available to American civilians is estimated 
to be around 310 million, according to the 2009 National Institute of 
Justice report.
  According to the Small Arms Survey, the exact number of civilian-
owned firearms is impossible to pinpoint because of a variety of 
factors, including arms that go unregistered due to illegal trade and 
global conflict. Estimates indicate that Americans own nearly half of 
the 650 million civilian-owned guns in the world today, which is nearly 
one gun for every man, woman, and child in the United States. Our 
Nation is well armed. India is home to the second-largest civilian 
firearm stockpile, estimated at 46 million.
  Americans own the most guns per person in the world, with about 4 in 
10 saying they either own a gun or live in a home where there is a gun, 
according to the 2017 Pew Center study. Forty-eight percent of 
Americans said they grew up in a house with guns. According to the 
survey, a majority--66 percent--of U.S. gun owners own multiple 
firearms. The No. 2 country in the world for the largest number of guns 
per capita is Yemen--a country that is in the throes of a 3-year-old 
civil war. They trail significantly behind us. They have 54 guns per 
100 in Yemen; we have 88 guns per 100 in the United States.
  When it comes to gun massacres, the United States is an anomaly. 
There are more public mass shootings in America than in any other 
country in the world. The United States makes up less than 5 percent of 
the world's population but holds 31 percent of global mass shooters. In 
Australia, for example, four mass shootings occurred between 1987 and 
1996. After those instances, public opinion turned against gun 
violence, and Parliament passed stricter gun safety laws. Australia 
hasn't had a mass shooting since.
  Gun safety laws work. The public demands that we take action to make 
our communities safer.
  Gun homicide rates are about 25 times higher in the United States 
than in other developed countries. The United States has one of the 
highest rates of death by firearms in the developed world, according to 
World Health Organization data. The calculations based on OECD data 
from 2010 show that Americans are 51 times more likely to be killed by 
gunfire than people in the UK.
  Most American gun owners say that a major reason they own a gun is 
for personal protection, according to the Pew study. However, the 
majority of firearms-related deaths are attributable to self-harm. Gun-
related suicides are eight times higher in the United States than in 
other high-income nations.
  Thinking of Stoneman Douglas High School, we all wonder out loud, 
what drove this young man to kill indiscriminantly? There is no one 
single reason, but that is no excuse for Congress and lawmakers in all 
of our States to remain frozen and fail to act to try to stop a future 
shooting from happening. If anything, it should be the impetus for us 
to move forward on many fronts and to take many actions to support our 
children and support our communities so more lives are not lost in such 
a violent way.
  We cannot allow the story of this shooting to end like all the others 
in recent history. We should have taken action after three students 
were killed and five wounded in December 1997 at a high school in West 
Paducah, KY. We should have taken action after two students opened fire 
on April 20, 1999, in Columbine High School in Littleton, CO, killing 
12 classmates and a teacher and wounding 26 others. We should have 
taken action after a gunman fatally shot 32 people in a dorm and 
classrooms at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, VA, on April 16, 2007.
  Columbine, Virginia Tech--for a period, these names became a code for 
some of the worst killings in our history. Nearly 5 years later, it 
happened again. Three students were killed and two wounded in a 
shooting on February 27, 2012, that started in a school cafeteria in 
Chardon, OH, as students waited for buses to other schools. Then there 
was Sandy Hook. I know we all remember a 20-year-old gunman, in 
December of 2012, killing 20 first grade children and 6 educators 
inside Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT--elementary school 
students. These were first graders, for goodness' sake, young children 
who should clearly have moved us to action. But no. The killings 
continued because the Republican leadership has been unwilling to budge 
from the NRA-approved message.

  We have had bipartisan support for some of this legislation, as we do 
today, but too many are so afraid of the NRA response that they lose 
sight of the fact that children are being killed right before our eyes.
  On September 8, 2016, a 14-year-old girl died of a self-inflicted 
gunshot wound after shooting and killing another female student at 
Alpine High School in West Texas.
  Just 20 days later, on September 28, a 6-year-old boy was fatally 
shot on the playground of Townville Elementary School in South Carolina 
by a 14-year-old boy who had just killed his father. Another child and 
a teacher were struck by bullets but survived.
  I know some of you are thinking: I haven't heard about these 
shootings. That is a problem in and of itself. School shootings have 
become so commonplace and so much a part of our lives that children 
dying in our schools may not make it into the paper. We might miss it. 
We cannot let this become commonplace. It cannot be the new norm.
  Another incident you may not have heard of happened last April. A 
gunman opened fire in the special education classroom of his estranged 
wife at North Park Elementary School in San Bernardino, CA, killing her 
and an 8-year-old boy and wounding another child.
  In September of last year, in Rockford, WA, a 15-year-old boy was 
killed at Freeman High School and three female students were wounded 
when authorities say another 15-year-old boy opened fire with a 
handgun.
  In December of last year, two students at Aztec High School in New 
Mexico were killed by a gunman disguised as a student.
  Barely a month ago, in January, 2 students were killed and 14 wounded 
by gunfire when a student opened fire before classes began at Marshall 
County High School in West Kentucky. A 15-year-old--a 15-year-old--is 
being charged for this crime.
  This time, the survivors are speaking out in a forceful way like we 
have not

[[Page S1298]]

heard before. I think the students speaking out have had a clear, 
articulate message that this carnage needs to stop. I am not sure I 
know any lawmaker or American who would disagree with the idea that our 
students need to be safe in their schools. It means that we need to 
act--really act this time.
  Setting aside the outrageous idea of arming teachers, it has been 
heartening to see the President move in the direction of legislative 
solutions, such as expanding background checks and banning bump stocks. 
The devil is always in the details, and we will see how far the 
President is willing to stray from the NRA and whether the Republican 
leadership will back the President or remain on the sidelines of 
protecting the American people and especially our children.
  On that Valentine's Day, February 14, when I heard about the shooting 
in Parkland, FL, my immediate reaction was horror, pain, and outrage. 
How could we allow this to happen yet again? Schools should be a safe 
harbor for our children, not a place of killing and terror. I was in my 
office thinking about how tragic this is, not only for those who were 
killed but for all the children who were there. I am as frustrated as 
the people across this country. I want to pass commonsense gun safety 
legislation. Why shouldn't we get these military-style weapons off the 
streets?
  It is hard to know what will motivate the congressional leadership to 
bring up this issue, what will jar them to action. I want action. We 
may not solve the problem entirely, but we need to try. We need to do 
something.
  A new CNN poll released just this Sunday finds that 70 percent of 
Americans now back tougher gun laws. This is a huge jump from 52 
percent after the tragic, horrific October shootings in Las Vegas. This 
number includes 49 percent of Republicans, which I think is 
encouraging. Saving lives should not be a partisan issue. Commonsense 
gun safety legislation should not be a partisan issue.
  Public opinion polls may not be perfect, but they are generally 
helpful to show trends. Americans are getting it. It is time that we 
do. This trend toward protecting the American people, and especially 
our children, is moving in the right direction. The American people are 
letting their voices be heard on this issue.
  Thoughts and prayers might console the grieving for a moment, but 
action speaks louder and will have a lasting impact. From my hometown 
of Baltimore to the many towns across America that have had their names 
in the headlines because of gun-related tragedies or mass shootings, 
people are calling upon Congress to act.
  I don't care what the reasons are for a change of heart, but let's 
get bills on the floor. What we are proposing are logical next steps to 
address the deadly problem that has been festering in this country for 
too long. Too many young lives have been lost. Will this time be 
different?
  Mr. President, in honor of the victims of Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School, I ask unanimous consent that their names be printed in the 
Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

       Alyssa Alhadeff, 14; Scott Beigel, 35; Martin Duque 
     Anguiano, 14; Nicholas Dworet, 17; Aaron Feis, 37; Jaime 
     Guttenberg, 14; Chris Hixon, 49; Luke Hoyer, 15; Cara 
     Loughran, 14; Gina Montalto, 14; Joaquin Oliver, 17; Alaina 
     Petty, 14; Meadow Pollack, 18; Helena Ramsay, 17; Alex 
     Schachter, 14; Carmen Schentrup, 16; Peter Wang, 15.

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, to all the victims of gun violence who 
have preceded them, let's make the answer a resounding yes.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Texas.


                         Texas Independence Day

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, this morning, I would like to start off 
speaking about a very important day in the history of my State, a day 
that inspires pride in the hearts of all those who were born in Texas. 
I am here to commemorate Texas Independence Day, which will be 
celebrated tomorrow.
  On March 2, 1836, Texas adopted its Declaration of Independence from 
Mexico. It is worth reading, and I would recommend it to anyone. This 
happened in the context of a struggle that is perhaps best remembered 
by the Battle of the Alamo, which laid some of the groundwork for 
Texans' eventual victory.
  On February 24 of that year, with his position under siege, an 
important figure named William Barret Travis wrote a letter, which I 
would like to read. He was a lieutenant colonel in the Texas Army, and 
during the battle, his fellow soldiers were outnumbered nearly 10 to 1 
by the forces of the Mexican dictator Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna. Here 
in the Senate, both Republicans and Democrats have had the honor of 
reading the fabled Travis letter since 1961, when then-Texas Senator 
John Tower started that tradition. The letter was addressed ``To the 
People of Texas & All Americans in the World.'' Travis wrote:

       I am besieged, by a thousand or more of the Mexicans under 
     Santa Anna--I have sustained a continual Bombardment & 
     cannonade for 24 hours & have not lost a man--The enemy has 
     demanded a surrender at discretion, otherwise, the garrison 
     are to be put to the sword, if the fort is taken--I have 
     answered the demand with a cannon shot, & our flag still 
     waves proudly from the walls--I shall never surrender or 
     retreat. Then, I call on you in the name of Liberty, of 
     patriotism & everything dear to the American character, to 
     come to our aid, with all dispatch--The enemy is receiving 
     reinforcements daily & will no doubt increase to three or 
     four thousand in four or five days. If this call is 
     neglected, I am determined to sustain myself as long as 
     possible & die like a soldier who never forgets what is due 
     to his own honor & that of his country--Victory or Death.

  Signed, ``William Barret Travis.''
  What a letter it is. It is a reminder for all of us that the 189 
defenders of the Alamo lost their lives, but they did not die in vain. 
In fact, Texans wouldn't be around today if it weren't for them.
  The Battle of the Alamo bought precious time for the Texas 
revolutionaries, allowing General Sam Houston to maneuver his army into 
a position for the decisive victory at the Battle of San Jacinto. I 
would just note that I am honored to occupy the same Senate seat first 
occupied by Sam Houston when he became a U.S. Senator after Texas 
became annexed to the United States in 1845.
  With that victory at the Battle of San Jacinto, Texas became a 
sovereign nation--the Republic of Texas--for 9 years. For 9 years, it 
thrived as a separate nation, and then in 1845 it was annexed to the 
United States as the 28th State.
  Many Texas patriots who fought in the revolution went on to serve in 
the U.S. Congress--Sam Houston being one of them. Every single day, I 
am honored to have the opportunity to serve 28 million Texans--a chance 
I wouldn't have had without the sacrifices made by the brave men like 
William Barrett Travis 182 years ago.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. President, on another matter, we have come a long way since the 
days of the Texas revolution, but Texas remains a place of optimism, 
fortitude, and dedication to worthy causes. It is also a bustling 
State, full of entrepreneurs, investors, and risk-takers who have 
created jobs and opportunities for the people who live there. I would 
like to mention briefly two iconic companies that are showing their 
devotion to Texas in a much different but important manner.
  In Tyler, they are spreading the good news of the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act, the law we passed in December, which overhauled our Tax Code. For 
those not familiar with where Tyler is, it is out in East Texas. We 
sometimes refer to that as ``behind the pine curtain.'' The Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act effects have been far-reaching. They have positively 
affected communities all across the country for the past 2 months, and 
Tyler is no exception.
  The first company I would like to mention is Greenberg Turkeys, a 
family-owned operation that sells the famous Thanksgiving bird to 
around 200,000 customers each holiday season. Four generations of the 
Greenberg family have worked in the company since the 1940s, and its 
turkeys have been featured on Oprah Winfrey's website as one of her 
favorite things--twice, in fact. As a result of the tax reforms we have 
passed, the company plans to refurbish its plant and give hourly 
employees a raise. Sam Greenberg, the president, said:


[[Page S1299]]


  

       This is a really good deal for businesses. It pays to treat 
     people right, and so we want to share this with our workers.

  I couldn't have said it better myself.
  The second Tyler company I want to mention briefly is Don's TV & 
Appliance. The staff there has more than 150 years of combined 
experience. It buys products direct from manufacturers at the lowest 
possible cost in order to provide customers with prices that are 
competitive with national chain stores. Recently, the owner, Don 
Thedford, and his son Donnie announced they would give their employees 
raises in 2018, which they were not able to do for the past several 
years, and they would not have been able to do it but for the Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act. Thanks to those reforms, Don has been able to help out 
his employees to provide them more take-home pay, and I am sure they 
appreciate the extra money in their paycheck each pay period. They can 
use these savings to invest, to pay for their children's education, 
prepare for their retirement, or whatever they find best.
  So I just wanted to say to Don and other small employers who are 
making sure their employees see the benefit of the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act reforms: Thank you for paying the savings forward. I can't wait to 
continue to hear more stories like these two in the months ahead.


                             Fix NICS Bill

  Mr. President, on a final note, I would like to bring up one last 
topic we have been discussing a lot this last week; that is, ways we 
can prevent mass shootings from happening in the future. Of course, the 
most recent one occurred at Parkland, FL, at Stoneman Douglas High 
School.
  Last fall, my State saw another insidious shooting at Sutherland 
Springs near San Antonio, TX. Twenty-six people lost their lives that 
day worshipping in a small Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, and 20 
more were wounded, including a 6-year-old boy named Ryland Ward, who 
was shot five times. We are ecstatic Ryland survived and is now out of 
the hospital and has gone home.
  What we all learned in the aftermath of that event is that sometimes 
these horrific crimes are perpetrated by individuals who never should 
have been able to purchase firearms in the first place. That is 
because, under current law, convicted felons, like the gunman at 
Sutherland Springs, are prohibited from legally purchasing firearms. 
The problem was that his convictions were not uploaded in the National 
Instant Criminal Background Check System, what is commonly referred to 
as the NICS system operated by the FBI.
  I have introduced a bill that has already passed the House that would 
address this problem and, I believe, would save lives in the future. It 
is a bipartisan piece of legislation cosponsored by the junior Senator 
from Connecticut. Senator Murphy, along with his colleague Senator 
Blumenthal, come from the State that saw the horrific killings at Sandy 
Hook. We added 10 new cosponsors just this week, bringing the total 
number to 50 cosponsors for this legislation. In my experience, it is 
rare to see a piece of legislation enjoy such broad, bipartisan 
support--50 cosponsors.
  I have been saying all week that we need to pass this bill now. We 
should not wait, we should not go home emptyhanded, and we should not 
have to face the grieving families who lost a child or a loved one as a 
result of a future shooting that might have been averted had we acted. 
America is tired of the government's response to these catastrophes 
which rip families apart, take lives, and pit people against each 
other. The response of their government has been largely either silence 
or bickering with no outcome, no result.
  There are other proposals we can consider as we continue to grapple 
with the questions posed in Parkland--questions about failures of local 
law enforcement, social media platforms, and the FBI. Yesterday, the 
President hosted an amazing meeting of 17 Members of Congress on a 
bipartisan basis and brainstormed about other things we might be able 
to do, but right now--right now--fix NICS is our best and only option 
to act in response. It is supported by the President, the majority and 
minority leaders are cosponsors, and it is supported by gun groups like 
the NRA and Everytown for Gun Safety, which are at opposite ends of the 
ideological spectrum when it comes to the Second Amendment. As I said, 
this bill has 50 cosponsors in the Senate and is ready for action, 
having already passed the House of Representatives.
  I pledged to myself, after my wife and I visited Sutherland Springs a 
week after the terrible shooting there and attended a church service 
led by the pastor who lost his 14-year-old daughter in that shooting 
just 1 week before--it was a gut-wrenching, emotional service, but it 
was inspiring in its own way. I pledged then that I would never face 
another grieving family with empty hands, saying we could have done 
something that might have saved your child's life or your loved one's 
life by fixing the broken background check system. I pledged I would 
never face them again, saying we didn't try our best to save lives in 
the future by passing commonsense, bipartisan legislation like the Fix 
NICS bill.
  As I said, there are other things we might do, but, as we all know, 
the threshold for actually passing legislation is 60 votes. What I 
don't want us to do is to end up like we did on the DACA debate, where 
we started with a neutral bill--a shell which really did nothing--and 
all of the various proposals failed to get 60 votes, so we ended up 
emptyhanded on the DACA issue. I don't want that to happen again, and I 
am not going to go home and tell my constituents in Texas I didn't do 
my very best to make sure we did something and something meaningful 
that would save lives in the future. Fix NICS is the best way to do 
that and do that now.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cassidy). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                              Gun Violence

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about the tragedy in 
Parkland and the responsibilities of the Senate to try to make our 
communities safer. I am going to talk very personally about my own 
experience in confronting gun violence as a mayor of an urban area, 
Richmond, VA, and as the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
  I will start by saying, I am a gun owner. I am a Second Amendment 
supporter. When I was an attorney in private practice, I was the lawyer 
who worked with an effort to amend the Virginia constitution to 
guarantee Virginians the right to hunt and fish. The Second Amendment 
and private gun ownership is an important part of our framework. I 
support it, but I obviously believe that we can do things consistent 
with the Constitution that will make our Nation safer, and I ask my 
colleagues to join in that effort.
  When I was elected to the Richmond City Council in 1994, Richmond, at 
that time, was only on one top 10 list that I am aware of. It is not 
the one you want to be on. We had the second highest homicide rate in 
the United States. We were not a high-crime area generally, if you 
looked at all crime, but in homicides and aggravated assaults--assaults 
committed with weapons--we were unusually high. The weapons of choice 
in these homicides and aggravated assaults were guns.
  I remember very early in my time at the city council getting called 
to a neighborhood, Gilpin Court, which is a public housing community in 
my city council district. There had been a gun crime that killed an 
entire family of five--adults and little children.
  Over the course of my 8 years of working in local government, I went 
to too many crime scenes and funerals and wakes. In some ways, the 
things that were the most memorable were the meetings in church 
basements of the families of homicide victims. We embarked upon a set 
of strategies to make our communities safer. Amidst all the bloodshed 
and the tears, we actually found strategies--some dealing with 
reductions in guns, some dealing with law enforcement strategies, some 
dealing with police and community relations. We found strategies that, 
over the course of about 8 years, reduced the

[[Page S1300]]

homicide rate in Richmond by 60 percent and the aggravated assault rate 
by an equivalent number.
  Out of the pain, what we learned is you can actually take concrete 
steps that will make your community safer and that will reduce gun 
violence. You will not eliminate it. That is beyond our power as humble 
people to do, but you can reduce it. If you know you can, then you 
must. You have a responsibility to do what you can.
  I was elected Governor of Virginia in 2005, and I will never forget 
April 16, 2007. I had just embarked on a trade mission. I had landed in 
Japan with a delegation to recruit business to my State. I had gone to 
the hotel, and I got a call after midnight from my chief of staff, who 
said: There is a shooting under way at Virginia Tech.
  I said: Book me on the next flight home. I have been here for just a 
few hours on what was going to be a 2-week trade mission, but let me 
fly back home.
  I flew back to what, at the time, was the worst shooting in the 
history of the United States. In April of 2007, 32 people were gunned 
down on the campus of Virginia Tech by a deranged youngster who had 
been adjudicated mentally ill and dangerous and was thus prohibited 
from having a weapon. But because of glitches and flaws in the 
background check system, he had been able to purchase multiple weapons, 
and he committed that horrible crime.
  I empaneled a commission. I told them: Let the lawyers and lawsuits 
be damned. I want to know everything that went wrong, and I want to 
make public everything that went wrong and everything we can do to fix 
it. Over the course of a number of months, they produced a report with 
hundreds of recommendations.
  The recommendations were about campus safety. The recommendations 
were about mental health, but there were also recommendations about 
fixes to our State and Federal gun laws to reduce the risk of this 
happening. I was able to make some changes on my own as an executive. I 
took other changes to my legislature that they rejected.
  Again, out of the painful situation--and it is a funny thing to say 
about your own State, about my State of Virginia, about a place I love 
like Virginia Tech--I always hoped it would be the worst. I had always 
hoped that would have been the worst shooting in the history of the 
United States, but the Pulse nightclub shooting and the Las Vegas 
shooting now have claimed more victims. Other shootings, like those in 
Newtown and now Parkland--if the number of victims aren't the same, the 
tragedy is nevertheless of equal magnitude.
  We learn through pain that you can make changes and improve. When I 
fixed a piece of the background check system flaw, it made us safer. It 
reduced the risk of gun violence and gun deaths.
  My experience as mayor and Governor were painful, but I learned a 
lesson in both, which is you can take steps, including steps dealing 
with the rules about firearms that will make your communities safer. 
That is a powerful thing. You can take steps that will make communities 
safer.
  I dealt with three lies--three falsehoods--over the course of these 
efforts as mayor and Governor, as I tried to help us take steps to make 
us safer.
  The first lie was it is not about guns. It is about mental health; it 
is about other things. But that is just false. Equally false would be 
if we said that it is only about guns. That would be false as well. To 
say it is not about guns is a lie perpetrated by an organization 
headquartered in Virginia, the National Rifle Association. It turned 
out to be false.
  The key to reducing the homicide rate in Virginia ultimately was that 
we embraced strategies to reduce the gun carry rate. That is a phrase 
that law enforcement professionals use for the percentage of time where 
people, in normal interactions with the police, are found to be 
carrying a weapon. In Virginia, the gun carry rate was unusually high, 
and that meant when something broke bad or there was an argument, there 
would often be an aggravated assault or homicide committed with a 
weapon. We undertook strategies that drove down the gun carry rate. 
That didn't make bad people good people, but it made it more likely 
that when things broke bad, there wouldn't be an aggravated assault or 
a homicide.
  So it was about the guns. That is the first lie or falsehood that 
gets perpetrated: It is not about guns. It is not only about guns, but 
it is definitely about guns.
  A second lie or falsehood perpetrated by the same organization is 
that they would always say: You can't improve. They would say: That 
will not solve every problem. You can't solve every bit of gun violence 
if you do this. They would say this over and over again with any 
shooting. They would point out the number of things that wouldn't have 
stopped it, as if not being able to eliminate gun violence means that 
you shouldn't do anything to try to reduce gun violence. That is just a 
lie or a falsehood. I have learned from my experiences that if you take 
steps, you can make communities safer.
  The third lie or falsehood we had to confront repeatedly from the 
National Rifle Association was that gun safety rules violate the Second 
Amendment. That is just flatout wrong. In fact, the Second Amendment is 
the only amendment whose text even uses the word regulation. The need 
for a well-regulated militia gives individuals the right to bear arms.
  What does the term ``well-regulated'' mean? It is not a reference to 
the length of somebody's beard or the kind of hat they should wear. 
There is an understanding that firearms are dangerous, and if 
individuals are to have the right to have them, there also must need to 
be some appropriate level of regulation. We are familiar with this in 
the rest of the Constitution.
  I am passionate about the First Amendment. There should be freedom of 
the press, but you can't just libel or slander without consequence. The 
Framers, Madison and others, who put these amendments together, 
understood that the amendments to the Constitution included some 
limitations because we have to live together, not just as individuals 
who are free agents, but we have to live together in society.
  Those three lies--it is not about guns; we can't do anything about 
it; and the gun rules violate the Second Amendment--are wrong.
  I came to the Senate after the shooting in Sandy Hook. The first 
meaningful debate we had after I came here was whether we would do 
something to respond to this horrible carnage of kids in an elementary 
school.
  The Presiding Officer was not in the Senate. I know you followed this 
as a citizen. I remember standing here in this Chamber in April 2013, 
casting a vote on a bill that I thought would have been a very good 
bill to do background record checks. We were surrounded in the Chamber 
by Sandy Hook families. Many of them were sitting next to Virginia Tech 
families who had come to be in solidarity with them. There was a 
feeling of despair, with them around, that was like the great cloud of 
witnesses referred to in the letter of Paul to the Hebrews. We fell 
short. They were praying for us to succeed, and we fell short. In the 
aftermath of that horrible tragedy, this body did precisely nothing.
  Well, now we have experienced yet another horrible tragedy. There 
have been others since Sandy Hook, but it is my deep hope that after 
this horrible shooting in Parkland, something may be different in this 
body. The reason I think this one might be different is that these 
students are standing up and challenging us. The children of our Nation 
are asking adults to be adults. They are asking us to look in the 
mirror. They posed the question starkly: What is more important to you, 
your children or campaign contributions from an interest group?
  I think the advocacy of the children of Parkland who suffer, not only 
their advocacy but the advocacy of students all over the United 
States--I have held meetings with Moms Demand Action in Richmond and 
Northern Virginia in the last couple of days, and many students were in 
these meetings. The advocacy of students and their challenge to us may 
show us a way.
  I will conclude with a story that gives me hope and that suggests 
there may be some resonance to this moment. Sometimes there is a 
movement, but there isn't a moment. Sometimes the movement needs a 
moment to achieve a victory.
  Fifty-five years ago, in the spring of 1963, Dr. Martin Luther King 
was trying to desegregate public accommodations in Birmingham, AL, with 
the

[[Page S1301]]

Southern Christian Leadership Conference. He had been going from 
community to community. In some places, they were able to desegregate 
public accommodations relatively easily. Other places were tough but 
none tougher than Birmingham. At drug stores and department stores, Dr. 
King and others would have adults go sit in--African Americans and 
their allies--and be arrested. Yet wave after wave of arrests 
notwithstanding, including the arrest of Dr. King, the city leaders 
would not back down. They would not shed the discrimination that 
violated the equality provisions of the Constitution.

  As this was going on, children in the Birmingham schools started to 
come to Dr. King and say: We want to march too.
  Dr. King and his lieutenants really struggled with this. They were 
parents. They didn't want their kids to be arrested. They didn't want 
their kids to face guard dogs attacking them. They didn't want their 
kids to face firehoses directed at them. They had a natural parental 
reaction: We are going to do this; we want to protect you.
  But the children kept coming and saying: We want to march too.
  Finally, they said: Isn't this about us? As much as it is about 
adults, isn't this about us, your children? And if it is about your 
children, why can't we march?
  Dr. King, after a lot of prayer and discussion, finally said: It is 
about you.
  Mr. President, you know this, and for our pages especially, it was 
those children advocating--and they marched, and they did have 
firehoses turned on them, and they did have guard dogs released on 
them. The photos of those children braving that ugly face of 
discrimination landed on the front pages of papers all over the United 
States and all over the world, and it was transformative of the civil 
rights movement.
  Adults in the Untied States knew there was discrimination, but they 
had become complacent to it or indifferent to it or had even said: I 
think it is wrong, but it will probably never change. But their 
children demanded of them: Adults, just be adults. Adults, you say you 
care about children; prove to us you care about children. And when the 
adults of America were confronted with the example of their own young 
people, they had to shake themselves out of their complacency and 
indifference and shoulder the burden that adults must shoulder.
  That is what these students at Parkland are saying to us now. That is 
what these students all over the country are saying to us now. They are 
saying: This is about our future. This is about your children. And they 
are asking us whether children matter more or political contributions 
matter more.
  I urge my colleagues, finally, let's not produce another goose egg in 
this body. Let's not come together after a horrible tragedy--when there 
are meaningful steps, such as background record checks, that we can put 
on the table to make us safer--and fail them yet again.
  I ask my colleagues and especially the majority leader to enable us 
to have this debate on the floor so that we can take meaningful steps 
of the kind that we know will make our communities safer.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Vermont.


                      Yemen War Powers Resolution

  Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, there should be no issue of more 
importance to Members of Congress than the issue of war and peace and 
when it is appropriate to send the young people of our country into 
harm's way, knowing that some of them will not return home alive.
  It goes without saying that every armed conflict the United States of 
America is engaged in must be consistent with the Constitution of the 
United States and be lawful.
  Let's make no mistake about it--article I, section 8 of the 
Constitution states in no uncertain terms that ``Congress shall have 
the power to . . . declare war.'' The Founding Fathers gave the power 
to declare war to Congress because Congress is that body most 
accountable to the people.
  For far too long, Congress--under Democratic and Republican 
administrations--has abdicated its constitutional role in authorizing 
war. The time is long overdue for Congress to reassert its 
constitutional authority. If you think that a military intervention 
makes sense, then let's have that debate on the floors of the Senate 
and the House and cast a vote. But that is not what we have been seeing 
for a number of years.
  What Senator Lee and Senator Murphy and I are doing with privileged 
resolution S.J. Res. 54 is demanding that Congress once again take its 
constitutional responsibility for war and peace seriously. I thank 
Senators Durbin, Warren, and Booker for coming on board that 
resolution. I hope this bipartisan resolution will gain more and more 
support in the coming days.
  Many Americans are unaware that the people of Yemen are suffering 
today in a devastating civil war, with Saudi Arabia and their allies on 
one side and Houthi rebels on the other.
  In November of last year, the United Nations emergency relief 
coordinator said that Yemen was on the brink of ``the largest famine 
the world has seen for many decades.'' So far, at least 10,000 
civilians have died, 3 million have been displaced, and over 40,000 
have been wounded in this war. Fifteen million people lack access to 
clean water and sanitation. More than 20 million people in Yemen--over 
two-thirds of that country's population--need some kind of humanitarian 
support, with nearly 10 million in acute need of assistance. More than 
1 million suspected cholera cases have been reported--1 million cholera 
cases have been reported--representing potentially the worst cholera 
outbreak in world history.
  Many Americans probably are not aware that U.S. forces have been 
actively engaged in support of the Saudis in this terrible war, 
providing intelligence and aerial refueling of planes whose bombs have 
killed thousands of people and made this crisis far worse.
  We believe--and I speak for Senator Lee and Senator Murphy--that as 
Congress has not declared war or authorized military force in this 
conflict, U.S. involvement in Yemen is unconstitutional and 
unauthorized, and U.S. military support of the Saudi coalition must 
end. Without congressional authorization, our engagement in this war 
should be restricted to providing desperately needed humanitarian aid 
and diplomatic efforts to put an end to this terrible conflict. That is 
why yesterday we introduced a joint resolution pursuant to the 1973 War 
Powers Resolution calling for an end to U.S. support for the Saudi war 
in Yemen.
  The War Powers Resolution defines the introduction of U.S. Armed 
Forces to include ``the assignment of members of such armed forces to 
command, coordinate, participate in the movement of, or accompany the 
regular or irregular military forces of any foreign country or 
government when such military forces are engaged, or there exists an 
imminent threat that such forces will become engaged, in hostilities.'' 
That is from the War Powers Resolution. Assisting with targeting 
intelligence and refueling warplanes as they bomb those targets clearly 
meets this definition.
  This is not a partisan issue. Support for the Saudi intervention in 
Yemen began under a Democratic President and has continued under a 
Republican one. Senator Lee is a conservative Republican. I am a 
progressive Independent who caucuses with the Democrats.
  In November of last year--and it is important that Members of the 
Senate hear this--the U.S. House of Representatives, by a vote of 366 
to 30, passed a nonbinding resolution stating that U.S. involvement in 
the Yemen civil war is unauthorized. Every Member of the Democratic 
leadership voted for this. Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi voted for it. 
Minority Whip Steny Hoyer voted for it. The ranking member of the House 
Foreign Affairs Committee, Eliot Engel, voted for it, as did the 
Republican chairman of that committee, Ed Royce.
  Here is the bottom line: If the President or Members of Congress 
believe that support for this war is in the U.S. interest and that we 
should be involved in it, then let them come to the floor of the House 
and Senate, make their case, and then let's have a vote.
  I believe we have become far too comfortable with the United States 
engaging in military interventions all over the world. We have now been 
in

[[Page S1302]]

Afghanistan for nearly 17 years--the longest war in American history. 
Our troops are now in Syria under what I believe are questionable 
authorities, and the administration has indicated that it may broaden 
that military mission even more.
  The time is long overdue for Congress to reassert its constitutional 
role in determining when and where our country goes to war. I am very 
proud to be working with Senators Lee, Murphy, and others on this 
vitally important issue.
  Thank you very much
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New York.


                              Gun Violence

  Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the mass murder 
in Florida this month, and I rise to ask a simple question that 
millions of Americans in every part of this country are asking at their 
kitchen tables right now: Is Congress finally going to do anything 
meaningful about gun violence? When will enough be enough? What will it 
take for this body to move beyond the same talking points that we hear 
after every mass shooting and actually do something to prevent more 
deaths? Will Congress finally see what the vast majority of Americans 
see--gun owners and non-gun owners alike--that America's gun problem 
isn't going away unless Congress musters up the courage to take it 
head-on, or will Congress continue to give the lipservice of thoughts 
and prayers and then do absolutely nothing?
  We have to act because once again there was a massacre on American 
soil. Once again it was inside a school. Once again American children 
were gunned down. We keep living through a nightmare of gun violence 
that repeats itself in schools, movie theaters, churches, nightclubs, 
concerts, and every single day on the streets of cities in every State 
around this country--Sandy Hook, Aurora, Charleston, San Bernardino, 
Orlando, Las Vegas, Sutherland Springs, and most recently, Parkland, 
FL.
  We can help stop this. We have the power to help stop this. The 
question is whether Congress has the political will to do it, whether 
this institution will finally put families first, our children first, 
and stand up to the gun manufacturers and the NRA.
  I urge every Member of Congress to reflect on why they first ran for 
office. We are here as public servants to serve the people who sent us 
here, not to serve the gun industry's profits, not to serve the 
organizations and companies and lobbyists who demand political 
retribution when we do the morally right thing. Does Congress have the 
will to act? Does Congress have the basic courage this country needs? I 
am sorry to say, I don't know, but we can put it to the test.

  There has been a lot of talk--more than normal even--about our need 
to act in this Chamber. So I will say this to my colleagues: Let's make 
this time different. Let's listen to the children from Stoneman Douglas 
High School. Let's seize this moment. Let's take action.
  I implore my colleagues to listen to what the country is saying about 
gun violence today, listen to the families, listen to the survivors 
from Parkland and tune out all the other noise. I did. It is possible.
  Ten years ago, I had an A rating from the NRA, just like many of my 
colleagues today, but then I met the mother of Nyasia Pryear-Yard. Then 
I met her classmates. Nyasia was an honor student from Brooklyn. She 
was dancing with her friends, having fun, loving life. She was killed 
by a stray bullet in her community. Now I have an F rating from the 
NRA.
  I don't understand how, after meeting with all of these families, 
after meeting with all of these children whose lives have been 
destroyed and torn apart by gun violence--I don't understand how any 
public servant would not vow to do what is necessary to make sure it 
never happens again.
  It is what we do after a terrorist attack, rightfully so. It is what 
we do as a country. We come together. We say never again, and we do 
whatever it takes to protect our country. We have to have the very same 
sense of urgency now.
  Plain and simple, it is a lie to say we have to choose between 
protecting law-abiding gun owners' rights and protecting our children 
from being murdered by assault rifles. It is a false choice to say we 
cannot end gun violence without violating people's constitutional 
rights. It is time for Members of Congress to stand up for what is 
right for America and do what is right for our communities, and say no 
to the NRA.
  I commend one of our colleagues in the House of Representatives--a 
Republican from Florida and an Army veteran--who is seeing this crisis 
differently now too. He wrote:

       I know that my community, our schools, and public gathering 
     places, are not made safer by any person having access to the 
     best killing tool the Army could put in my hands. I cannot 
     support the primary weapon I used to defend our people, being 
     used to kill children I swore to defend.

  That is what leadership looks like.
  I implore my colleagues in the Senate to see our gun violence problem 
differently. See it with your heart. See it for what it is. It is a 
matter of national security, of public health, of public safety that 
will never go away unless Congress does its job.
  So, once and for all, let's pass laws that actually are meaningful, 
that actually can do something, not just something simple so we can say 
we did something and move on. I strongly agree with my colleagues that 
we need to improve the mental health system. Let's make those 
investments, but it should not stop there.
  We have to address the fact that we have weapons of war on our 
streets today. We have to address the fact that it is so easy for 
people to buy a gun--people who should never have that privilege. Let's 
vote to ban semiautomatic assault rifles.
  Congress has already banned fully automatic weapons. Congress has 
already recognized that some weapons have no place in the civilian 
world, and a weapon of war that was designed for military use, that can 
fire up to 100 rounds in 1 minute or 100 rounds if you just add a bump 
stock, a weapon that can completely outgun a police officer has no 
place in the civilian world.
  Will my colleagues vote with me to ban semiautomatic assault rifles?
  Then, let's vote to ban the high-capacity magazines that go with 
them. They are made for wars; they are not made to be in our schools, 
not in our cities. High-capacity magazines let killers fire dozens of 
rounds without having to frequently stop and reload. They are designed 
to let someone fire bullets at as many people as possible in the 
shortest amount of time.
  Let's vote to ban high-capacity magazines, and let's vote to pass 
universal background checks. That is something that is so commonsense, 
so obvious. Too many people who should not get their hands on these 
weapons are easily able to get them, and there are so many loopholes 
that allow people to buy semiautomatic assault rifles online, where 
there are no background checks. They allow people to buy semiautomatic 
assault rifles at gun shows, where there are no background checks.
  It simply doesn't make sense that every person who buys a firearm 
doesn't go through a basic background check system. Do you know who 
agrees with that? Ninety-seven percent of the American people. I can't 
think of any other issue where there is such near-universal agreement 
across our entire population.
  So let's do what our constituents are demanding from us--not what the 
NRA is demanding from us--and vote to pass universal background checks. 
When we do it, let's make sure the effort is actually sincere. If we 
are only voting on universal background checks, when it is tied to the 
issue of concealed carry reciprocity, then that is not a sincere 
attempt to fix our broken background check system. If Congress is 
saying we will only pass universal background checks if we pass a new 
law that says a stranger from one State has to be allowed into my State 
or your State when he has a gun hidden under his jacket, that is an 
insult to 97 percent of the American people who want Congress to pass 
universal background checks now.
  Then, let's finally vote to overturn the outrageous law that has 
banned the Centers for Disease Control from even studying the issue of 
gun deaths. The CDC can study any other cause of death--heart disease, 
cancer, car crashes, plane crashes--unless it involves a gun. Don't you 
think it is strange that when we debate this issue, the two

[[Page S1303]]

things related to gun violence that Congress has actually banned in 
recent years are research--research on gun violence--and a ban on the 
ATF from using computers to keep records? Let's vote to allow the CDC 
to conduct research on gun violence so we can finally have the 
information and the data we need to fight gun violence as effectively 
as possible.

  Let's also pass a law that finally makes gun trafficking a Federal 
crime. Over and over again, law enforcement officers keep finding 
illegally obtained guns being used in crimes. Numerous NYPD officers 
have been killed by guns that were illegally obtained by criminals, and 
there is literally no Federal law to stop someone from loading his 
truck with guns in Georgia, driving up I-95, and selling them in a 
parking lot in the Bronx directly to criminals and gang members.
  I have a bill that would make this illegal. It is called the Hadiya 
Pendleton and Nyasia Pryear-Yard Gun Trafficking and Crime Prevention 
Act. It is bipartisan, because both parties agree that gun trafficking 
is a source of gun violence in our cities.
  This bill is named after Nyasia, whom I mentioned earlier, and 
another teenager from Chicago who was also killed by a stray bullet. 
Both guns in those crimes were trafficked. So let's pass this bill and 
finally make gun trafficking a Federal crime.
  If we are not trying to solve this problem now, then we are failing 
as elected leaders. Congress must solve America's gun violence crisis 
now. It is urgent. Our country is demanding it. Americans deserve more 
from Congress than just banning bump stocks, just fixing NICS, which, 
while I strongly support both of them, will not do enough on their own. 
So let us not fail our country again.
  I would like to ask our colleagues to immediately vote to ban 
semiautomatic assault rifles and bump stocks, to pass a universal 
background check system and close all of the loopholes, to allow the 
CDC to research gun violence as a cause of death, to close the gun show 
loophole, and to finally make gun trafficking a Federal crime.
  I yield the floor.
  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, it was 2 weeks ago yesterday that the 
tragic incident in Parkland took place--one of many that have impacted 
our country over the last decade and beyond. That community in 
Parkland, FL, and the residents of the State of Florida whom I 
represent--and, frankly, the entire Nation--have demanded not just 
action but immediate action.
  We know--and anyone who watches this process is well aware--that 
there are deep differences on how far and how much we should restrict 
the Second Amendment right of every American. We know there are deep 
differences about whether some of those proposed restrictions work. I 
imagine those debates and those differences will not be easily resolved 
and will continue, but I also know there is widespread support and 
agreement that we must act now--as soon as possible--to do everything 
we can to prevent another tragedy like Parkland from happening anywhere 
else ever again. That is a consensus position. No matter where one 
falls on this debate, no matter how one feels about how far or how 
restricted restrictions on gun sales in America should be, no matter 
what your views are on that, I don't know of anyone who is in favor of 
school shootings, and I don't know anyone who is in favor of seeing 
another one happen. There is common ground in that regard.
  What I have tried to do, over the last couple of weeks, is undertake 
efforts to determine what changes in Federal law not only could have 
prevented this attack but could prevent future ones. In that vein, I 
have met with State and Federal law enforcement investigators involved 
not just in this case but in gun laws in general. I have met with 
students and with teachers from Marjorie Stoneman Douglas High School, 
including two teachers who were injured in the attack. I have met with 
school board administrators. I have met with the community at large, 
including an appearance last week at a nationally televised townhall. I 
have been in contact with several of the parents of the victims who 
lost their lives. I have also spoken to experts in firearm sales. I 
have spoken to a number of federally licensed firearm dealers who 
talked about some of the frustrations they have with our existing law 
and their inability to address people who ultimately turn out to be 
individuals who should not own any gun of any kind.
  So based on these meetings, based on all of this input, and based on 
all of the other research that is out there leading up to now, the 
first thing I want to say is, I actually believe this attack could have 
and should have been prevented if current law had been fully enforced.
  This killer was a well-known danger to the school district. He was a 
well-known danger to the Broward Sheriff's office. He was a well-known 
danger to his neighborhood. He was also the subject of two separate and 
specific warnings to law enforcement agencies: a call to the Broward 
Sheriff's office last November, a call to an FBI hotline in January.
  In essence, we are always telling people, if you see something, say 
something. People saw something and people said something and other 
people saw it as well over a course of time. Yet somehow this deranged 
and violent individual was able to pass a background check and purchase 
not 1 but 10 separate firearms, and this deranged and violent 
individual was ultimately able to walk right into the school a few 
minutes before dismissal and take the lives of 17 innocent Floridians.
  This tragedy is the result of a massive multisystemic failure--a 
failure involving Federal agencies, State agencies, and local 
authorities who all failed to both identify the threat he posed and 
coordinate a response to stop him before he took action. It is this 
failure I hope we will focus on by addressing the shortcomings and 
vulnerabilities in our current laws and in our current policies. We may 
still have a debate on the broader issues of regulating gun sales, but 
irrespective of that debate, we still must and should do this.
  So today I wanted to come here for a few minutes and announce a 
comprehensive plan--not a simple bill you just vote on and move on but 
a series of measures I believe could prevent these attacks before they 
happen and that also help schools protect their students and their 
teachers. I believe these ideas should all enjoy bipartisan support, 
and, if passed, could and should help prevent the next potential mass 
shooting.
  These are ideas I outline not just because they work, but because I 
believe we can get the votes to pass them. Sixty votes in the Senate, a 
majority in the House, and the signature of a President--that is what 
it takes to turn an idea into a law, and these ideas I am about to 
outline both work and, I believe, could enjoy that widespread support.
  One of the things we have learned is, our schools are woefully 
unprepared to prevent an attack before it occurs. Furthermore, during 
my visits to the site of the attack and my followup meeting with 
teachers at the school, I learned of various changes to school 
facilities and practices which could have stopped this attack or 
improved the response. Therefore, I will be joining later today with 
Senator Orrin Hatch and others in introducing the STOP School Violence 
Act.
  If passed, this law would provide Federal grants to do some important 
things that would have been really helpful in this case: strengthen 
school security infrastructure of the school, provide school training 
for everyone--administrators, teachers, even students--to be able to 
identify threats and to report them. Something that really would be 
helpful is the creation of a school threat assessment and crisis 
intervention team. There is a successful program in Los Angeles that 
does this. That is a team that is a coordination between law 
enforcement, other State agencies, school districts and the like where 
they are all talking to each other about students and former students 
who may pose a threat of violence and intervene before they act.
  A second issue we identified is that even if law enforcement, school 
administrators, or family members believe an individual poses the risk 
of committing an act of violence, they have very few options to prevent 
them from purchasing any gun or taking away the guns they already have.

[[Page S1304]]

  Therefore, I intend to present a new law--perhaps in coordination 
with others who are working on it now--that will lead to the creation 
of gun violence restraining orders, something that will give law 
enforcement and close family members the option of obtaining a court 
order to prevent gun sales or remove guns from individuals who pose a 
threat. To be clear, the due process in such a situation would be on 
the front end, not on the back end.
  The third issue we uncovered is, Federal law appears to discourage 
school systems from reporting dangerous students to law enforcement. I 
don't support criminalizing all school misconduct, but a student who 
has threatened violence, who has exhibited violent behavior needs to be 
reported to law enforcement. A student who has committed a crime by 
issuing a threat of death using social media--a crime under Florida 
law--that needs to be reported, but under Broward County school 
policies, pursuant to something called the PROMISE Program, reporting a 
student, a dangerous one, to law enforcement is the sixth step--step 
6--in their plan. Therefore, I intend to propose changes to the Federal 
Youth PROMISE Program so a school district plan under this program does 
not delay and does not discourage law enforcement from being alerted to 
dangerous and violent or hazardous behavior.
  Fourth, we need to strengthen background checks. That is why I have 
joined with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle pushing for the 
immediate passage of Fix NICS--something that will require all Federal 
agencies and incentivize every State to fully report relevant 
information to the national background check database--because a 
background check is only as good as the information that is on it. This 
deranged killer was able to buy guns on 10 separate occasions because 
he would have passed any background check because none of this stuff 
that was known about him was reported to that system.
  Fifth, we must begin to prosecute the purchase of guns by people 
prohibited from doing so. Next week, I hope to be joining a bipartisan 
group, led by Senators Toomey and Coons, in filing the ``Lie and Try'' 
bill, which will require the FBI to notify States when someone who is 
not allowed to buy a gun, tries to buy a gun and fails the background 
check, so they can be investigated, so they can be prosecuted.
  In addition, we will be presenting a new law to provide more 
prosecutors to go after straw purchases, which is where someone buys a 
gun on behalf of someone else because that someone else could not pass 
the background check.
  Now, there are some additional reforms that I am open to: the 
possibility of looking at age limits on semiautomatic rifles, the 
notion of looking at what could be done with high-capacity magazines. 
We will continue to explore and look at those. These reforms do not 
enjoy the sort of widespread support in Congress that the other 
measures I have announced do, and, in order to successfully pass, these 
ideas will have to be crafted in a way that actually contributes to 
greater public safety but also do not unnecessarily or unfairly 
infringe on the Second Amendment right of all law-abiding adults to 
protect themselves and their families, to hunt, or to participate in 
recreational shooting.
  Ultimately, there are things we can do that have widespread, 
bipartisan support that we can act on, that we can get passed, that 
will actually make a difference. These are impactful things.
  I urge the Senate and the House, all of my colleagues here, do not 
hold hostage a piece of legislation that would work and that we all 
support because it doesn't have everything you want. There are things 
we can act on and do, and there are things we can continue to argue 
over, debate, and perhaps do in the future, but on the things we agree 
on--and they happen to be things that could have prevented this attack 
and will prevent future attacks--let's get those done. I have outlined 
those here today. There may be others, but we owe it not just to the 
victims and the families of Parkland but to all Americans everywhere; 
for this attack may have happened in Southern Florida, but there is no 
reason it can't happen somewhere else and, I fear, will happen 
somewhere else if we do not fix the deficiencies and the flaws in our 
policies, in our laws, and in the way they are enforced.
  We have learned from this incident what is wrong with our system. Let 
us fix it. We have an opportunity to do so while we continue to debate 
and work on the issues we do not agree on. That is what I hope we will 
do, and that is what I commit to doing everything I can to achieve.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time has expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the 
Quattlebaum nomination?
  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Arizona (Mr. Flake), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
McCain), and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds).
  The result was announced--yeas 69, nays 28, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 42 Ex.]

                                YEAS--69

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Carper
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--28

     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Casey
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Heinrich
     Klobuchar
     Markey
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Peters
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Flake
     McCain
     Rounds
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Fischer). Under the previous order, the 
motion to reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the 
President will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.
  The Senator from Idaho.
  Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
remaining votes in this series be 10 minutes in length.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



