

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H731-H732]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. Perry, Mr. Donovan, and 
             Mr. Norman):
       H.R. 4896. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide States with limited authority to reduce the frequency 
     with which qualified law enforcement officers must meet 
     firearm training standards in order to be eligible to carry a 
     concealed firearm; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LoBIONDO (for himself, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Bonamici, 
             and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.R. 4897. A bill to require a study on women and lung 
     cancer, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Westerman, 
             and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 4898. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend authorities relating to homeless veterans, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Payne, and Ms. 
             Norton):
       H.R. 4899. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide grants for treatment of heroin, opioids, cocaine, 
     methamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphet-amine 
     (ecstasy), and phency-clidine (PCP) abuse, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr. Hoyer, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Raskin, and Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland):
       H.R. 4900. A bill to authorize additional funding for the 
     Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney 
             of New York):
       H.R. 4901. A bill to amend chapter 44 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to treat flamethrowers the same as machineguns; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 4902. A bill to amend the Water Infrastructure Finance 
     and Innovation Act of 2014 to provide to State infrastructure 
     financing authorities additional opportunities to receive 
     loans under that Act to support drinking water and clean 
     water State revolving funds to deliver water infrastructure 
     to communities across the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce,

[[Page H732]]

     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. 
             Norcross):
       H.R. 4903. A bill to direct the Comptroller General to 
     conduct a study and submit a report to Congress on best 
     practices in use by Federal departments and agencies to 
     reduce opioid usage following medical procedures; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LaHOOD:
       H.R. 4904. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     allow producers to file a one-time program contract for 
     certain programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for himself and Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas):
       H.R. 4905. A bill to provide for improvements to National 
     Flood Insurance Program rate maps, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself and Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney 
             of New York):
       H.R. 4906. A bill to amend title 13, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the use of questions on citizenship, nationality, or 
     immigration status in any decennial census, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. RUSH (for himself, Mr. Pallone, and Mrs. 
             Bustos):
       H.R. 4907. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency to establish a grant program to assist eligible 
     entities in carrying out programs to replace lead service 
     lines for schools and solder that is not lead free used in 
     the plumbing for schools, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUSH (for himself, Mr. Pallone, and Mrs. 
             Bustos):
       H.R. 4908. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     provide assistance to schools to replace drinking water 
     fountains that may contain lead, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, 
             Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Deutch):
       H.R. 4909. A bill to reauthorize the grant program for 
     school security in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
     Act of 1968; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia (for himself and Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia):
       H.R. 4910. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide outer burial receptacles for remains buried in 
     National Parks, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SMUCKER:
       H.R. 4911. A bill to establish a Joint Commission on Budget 
     Process Reform; to the Committee on the Budget, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. CHENEY:
       H. Res. 719. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. Adams, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Bass, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             Doggett, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Moore, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mrs. 
             Black, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Beyer, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             Mr. McGovern, Ms. Norton, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Ms. Lee, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Evans, 
             Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Hastings, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Kustoff 
             of Tennessee, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Welch, Mr. Raskin, 
             Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Butterfield, 
             Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Ellison, Mrs. Demings, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Neal, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, and 
             Mr. Cleaver):
       H. Res. 720. A resolution recognizing the coordinated 
     struggle of workers on the 50th anniversary of the 1968 
     Memphis sanitation workers strike to voice their grievances 
     and reach a collective agreement for rights in the workplace; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



