

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H3068]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                STB INFORMATION SECURITY IMPROVEMENT ACT

  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 4921) to require the Surface Board of Transportation to 
implement certain recommendations of the Inspector General of the 
Department of Transportation, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 4921

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``STB Information Security 
     Improvement Act''.

     SEC. 2. REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) In General.--The Surface Transportation Board (in this 
     section referred to as the ``STB'') shall develop a timeline 
     and plan to implement the recommendations of the Inspector 
     General of the Department of Transportation in Report No. 
     FI2018002, including improvements--
       (1) to identify controls, including risk management, 
     weakness remediation, and security authorization;
       (2) to protect controls, including configuration 
     management, user identity and access management, and security 
     training;
       (3) to detect controls, including continuous monitoring;
       (4) to respond controls, including incident handling and 
     reporting;
       (5) to recover controls for contingency planning; and
       (6) any additional tools that will improve the 
     implementation of the recommendations.
       (b) Implementation.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the STB shall submit the plan and 
     timeline developed under subsection (a) to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Commerce of the Senate.
       (2) Report.--The STB shall report annually to such 
     Committees on the progress on implementation of the 
     recommendations until the implementation is complete.
       (3) Plan implementation.--The STB shall designate an 
     individual to implement the plan developed under subsection 
     (a).

     SEC. 3. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

       No additional funds are authorized to carry out the 
     requirements of this Act. Such requirements shall be carried 
     out using amounts otherwise authorized.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Mitchell) and the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Capuano) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.


                             General Leave

  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to 
include extraneous material on H.R. 4921, as amended.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Michigan?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the STB Information Security Improvement Act requires 
the Surface Transportation Board to develop a timeline and plan to 
implement the recommendations and improvements outlined in its 
information security system.
  After a concerning report from the Department of Transportation 
inspector general that outlined deficiencies in the STB's information 
security system, it is imperative that changes be made and there are 
improvements in that system rapidly.
  When the STB separated from DOT, Department of Transportation, in 
December 2015, the agency gained full responsibility and control of its 
IT system, and it currently lacks any meaningful or strong 
cybersecurity system.
  The improvements needed include basic building blocks, such as 
changes to policies and procedures. The STB is encumbered by a number 
of weaknesses, and its information security program has been determined 
by the OIG to be at a low level of maturity according to OMB standards.
  A summary of the bill is it requires the STB, the Surface 
Transportation Board, to create a timeline and plan to implement 
recommendations made by the DOT Office of Inspector General in their 
report. Additionally, it requires the Surface Transportation Board to 
annually update Congress on its progress until it has effectively been 
completed and updated.
  This bill ensures that the Surface Transportation Board addresses 
these deficiencies so the agency can reduce the risk of an attack or 
compromise to this critical information system.
  I believe this bill will improve the Surface Transportation Board's 
information security and is a good piece of legislation and oversight.
  I again thank Chairman Shuster, Chairman Denham, and Mr. Gottheimer 
for working with me on this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CAPUANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, very briefly, this is a short bill, an easy bill. It 
simply tells the STB that they should do something about cybersecurity 
as directed by their own inspector general.
  It is a very simple bill. It is a bipartisan bill. It is something we 
should pass as quickly as we can.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the bipartisan nature of the 
bill. My colleague supported the bill, and Mr. Gottheimer is a 
cosponsor.
  I urge my colleagues to join in supporting this important 
legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 4921, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I object to the vote on the ground that a 
quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not 
present.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.
  The point of no quorum is considered withdrawn.

                          ____________________



