

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S613-S614]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to provide immunity 
from suit for certain individuals who disclose potential examples of 
financial exploitation of senior citizens, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award 
the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his 
heroic achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle 
East.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and accelerate 
development and availability, of promising childhood cancer treatments, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 337

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) 
and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 337, a bill to provide paid family and medical leave 
benefits to certain individuals, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 569, a bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
provide consistent and reliable authority for, and for the funding of, 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund to maximize the effectiveness of 
the Fund for future generations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and services provided 
by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 888

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 888, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Opportunity Act to add disclosure 
requirements to the institution financial aid offer form and to amend 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to make such form mandatory.


                                 S. 889

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 889, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to make technical improvements 
to the Net Price Calculator system so that prospective students may 
have a more accurate understanding of the true cost of college.


                                 S. 974

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 974, a bill to promote 
competition in the market for drugs and biological products by 
facilitating the timely entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar 
versions of those drugs and biological products.


                                 S. 999

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 999, a bill to amend the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to permanently prohibit the conduct 
of offshore drilling on the outer Continental Shelf in the Mid-
Atlantic, South Atlantic, North Atlantic, and Straits of Florida 
planning areas.


                                S. 1286

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1286, a bill to lift the trade embargo 
on Cuba.


                                S. 1500

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1500, a bill to 
amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to ensure that the reciprocal 
deposits of an insured depository institution are not considered to be 
funds obtained by or through a deposit broker, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1628

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1628, a bill to 
revise counseling requirements for certain borrowers of student loans, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. McConnell) and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1774, a bill to provide protections for workers with 
respect to their right to select or refrain from selecting 
representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1864

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1864, a bill to expand the 
use of open textbooks in order to achieve savings for students.


                                S. 1903

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1903, a bill to assist 
communities affected by stranded nuclear waste, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2037

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2037, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 regarding proprietary institutions of 
higher education in order to protect students and taxpayers.


                                S. 2127

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the names of the Senator from 
Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune), the 
Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added as cosponsors of S. 2127, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the United States 
merchant mariners of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
and vital service during World War II.


                                S. 2143

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2143, a bill to amend the 
National Labor Relations Act to strengthen protections for employees 
wishing to advocate for improved wages, hours, or other terms or 
conditions of employment, to expand coverage under such Act, to provide 
a process for achieving initial collective bargaining agreements, and 
to provide for stronger remedies for interference with these rights, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2173

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2173, a bill to amend subpart 2 of part 
B of title IV of

[[Page S614]]

the Social Security Act to extend State court funding for child 
welfare, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2208

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2208, a bill to provide for 
the issuance of an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal Stamp.


                                S. 2269

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2269, a bill to reauthorize the Global Food 
Security Act of 2016 for 5 additional years.


                                S. 2275

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2275, a bill to provide for 
the adjustment of status of certain nationals of Liberia to that of 
lawful permanent residents and for other purposes.


                                S. 2278

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, a bill 
to amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to improve 
health care in rural areas.


                                S. 2296

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2296, a bill to increase 
access to agency guidance documents.


                                S. 2317

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2317, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act to provide for additional flexibility with 
respect to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2322

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2322, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to define the term natural cheese.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets under 
direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and other 
figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2356

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2356, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to address staffing and other issues at 
facilities, including underserved facilities, of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2357

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2357, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to review the processes and requirements 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs for scheduling appointments for 
health care and conducting consultations under the laws administered by 
the Secretary, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 368

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 368, a resolution 
supporting the right of all Iranian citizens to have their voices 
heard.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 377, a resolution 
recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those individuals who 
have faithfully served and retired from the Armed Forces of the United 
States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military Retiree Appreciation 
Day'', and encouraging the people of the United States to honor the 
past and continued service of military retirees to their local 
communities and the United States.


                              S. RES. 385

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 385, a resolution supporting the 
observation of ``National Trafficking and Modern Slavery Prevention 
Month'' during the period beginning on January 1, 2018, and ending on 
February 1, 2018, to raise awareness of, and opposition to, human 
trafficking and modern slavery.

                          ____________________



