

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1685]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

  Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the following 
statement be printed in the Record on behalf of AASA; the School 
Superintendents Association; Afterschool Alliance; Alliance for 
Excellent Education; American Association of School Librarians; 
American Association of School Libraries; American Federation of 
Teachers; American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial 
Organizations; American Library Association; American School Counselor 
Association; Americans for Democratic Action; Americans United for 
Separation of Church and State; Association of Educational Service 
Agencies; Association of Latino Administrators and Superintendents; 
Association of School Business Officials International, ASBO; Center 
for American Progress; Clearinghouse on Women's Issues; Council for 
Exceptional Children; Council of Administrators of Special Education; 
CUE; EDGE; Education Networks of America; Every Child Matters; GLSEN; 
Higher Education Consortium for Special Education; Learning 
Disabilities Association of America; Learning Forward; MENTOR: The 
National Mentoring Partnership; National Association of Secondary 
School Principals; National Association for Bilingual Education; 
National Association of Black School Educators; National Association of 
Elementary School Principals; National Association of School 
Psychologists; National Association of State Directors of Special 
Education; National Black Justice Coalition; National Center for 
Learning Disabilities; National Council of Jewish Women; National 
Council of Teachers of English; National Council of Teachers of 
Mathematics; National Education Association Retirees Organization, 
NEARO; National Education Association; National PTA; National Rural 
Education Advocacy Consortium; National Rural Education Association; 
National School Boards Association; National School Public Relations 
Association; National Science Teachers Association; Network for Public 
Education; New Teacher Center; People for the American Way; Project 
Tomorrow; School Social Work Association of America; Stop Sexual 
Assault in Schools; Teacher Education Division of the Council for 
Exceptional Children; and University Council for Educational 
Administration.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

       We issue this joint statement in support of public 
     education and our continued commitment to the highest quality 
     public education for all students in honor of the students, 
     teachers, and communities who work together to support our 
     public schools during Public Schools Week.
       Public education is the foundation of our 21st Century 
     democracy. Our public schools are where our students come to 
     be educated in the fullest sense of the word as citizens of 
     this great country. We strive every day to make every public 
     school a place where we prepare the nation's young people to 
     contribute to our society, economy and citizenry.
       Ninety percent of American children attend public schools. 
     We must call on local, state, and federal lawmakers to 
     prioritize support for strengthening our nation's public 
     schools and empower local education leaders to implement, 
     manage and lead school districts in partnership with 
     educators, parents, and other local education stakeholders 
     and learning communities. This support would also provide for 
     such necessities as counseling, extra/co-curricular 
     activities, and mental health supports that are critical to 
     help students engage in learning.
       We must support and value inclusive and safe high-quality 
     public schools where children learn to think critically, 
     problem solve and build relationships. We must support an 
     environment where all students can succeed beginning in the 
     earliest years, regardless of their zip code, the color of 
     their skin, native language, disability, gender/gender 
     identity, immigration status, religion, or social standing.
       As advocates for public education, we believe we must 
     promote advancing equity and excellence in public education, 
     and implementing continuous improvement and evidence-based 
     practices. Every child has the right to an education that 
     helps them reach their full potential and to attend schools 
     that offer a high quality educational experience.
       We support stable, equitable, predictable and adequate 
     funding for great public schools for every student in America 
     so that students have inviting classrooms and school 
     libraries with up-to-date resources as well as well-prepared 
     and supported educators. These educators include teachers, 
     paraprofessionals and principals who provide a well-rounded 
     and complete curriculum and create joy in learning. Our 
     school buildings should have class sizes small enough to 
     allow one-on-one attention and have access to support 
     services such as health care, nutrition, and after-school 
     programs for students who need them.
       We believe that public tax dollars should only support 
     public schools that are publicly governed and accountable to 
     parents, educators and communities. In no way should local, 
     state or federal funding be taken away from public schools 
     and given to private schools that are unaccountable to the 
     public.
       We reiterate our love for public education and pride in our 
     public schools. We will continue to promote the promise and 
     purpose of public education, to elevate the great things 
     happening every day in our public schools, and to engage 
     communities about strategies that help students succeed. We 
     affirm our commitment to fight for resources and supports for 
     public schools, and will be steadfast in our efforts to 
     protect students and their families, public schools, and our 
     communities from any policies that would undermine these 
     values.

                          ____________________



