

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1319-S1320]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I have 11 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:

[[Page S1320]]

  



                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Lieutenant General Paul 
M. Nakasone, USA, to be general and Director, National Security Agency/
Chief, Central Security Service/Commander, United States Cyber Command, 
Department of Defense, and Brent K. Park, of Tennessee, to be Deputy 
Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, National Nuclear 
Security Administration, and Anne Marie White, of Michigan, to be an 
Assistant Secretary (Environmental Management), both of the Department 
of Energy.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 10 
a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Semiannual monetary policy 
report to the Congress.''


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 
10:15 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Implementation of Positive 
Train Control.''


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 10 
a.m., to conduct a hearing.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 10 
a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Administration's Framework 
for Rebuilding Infrastructure in America.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Robert Frank Pence, of 
Virginia, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Finland, and Trevor D. 
Traina, of California, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Austria, 
both of the Department of State, and Judy Lynn Shelton, of Virginia, to 
be United States Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nomination: John F. 
Ring, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Labor 
Relations Board.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Joel M. Carson III, of 
New Mexico, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, 
Colm F. Connolly, and Maryellen Noreika, both to be a United States 
District Judge for the District of Delaware, William F. Jung, to be 
United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, Ryan 
T. Holte, of Ohio, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims, Jonathan F. Mitchell, of Washington, to be Chairman of the 
Administrative Conference of the United States, and Billy J. Williams, 
to be United States Attorney for the District of Oregon, Mark S. James, 
to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Missouri, 
Daniel C. Mosteller, to be United States Marshal for the District of 
South Dakota, and Jesse Seroyer, Jr., to be United States Marshal for 
the Middle District of Alabama, all of the Department of Justice.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 2 p.m., to conduct 
a closed business meeting followed by a closed briefing.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018, at 2 p.m., 
to conduct a closed briefing.


       Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management

  The Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management of the 
Committee Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 1, 2018 at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Examining Federal Managers' Roles 
in Hiring.''

                          ____________________



