

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H3094-H3095]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mrs. 
             Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 5443. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require electronic filing of the annual returns of 
     exempt organizations and provide for making such returns 
     available for public inspection; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 5444. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modernize and improve the Internal Revenue Service, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan (for himself and Ms. 
             DelBene):
       H.R. 5445. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to improve cybersecurity and taxpayer identity 
     protection, and modernize the information technology of the 
     Internal Revenue Service, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FERGUSON (for himself and Mr. Crowley):
       H.R. 5446. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to restrict the immediate sale of seized property by 
     Secretary of the Treasury to perishable goods; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Collins 
             of Georgia, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Issa, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Bass, 
             Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cooper, 
             Mrs. Demings, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Johnson of 
             Louisiana, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Marino, Mr. Payne, Mrs. Roby, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Jayapal, 
             and Mr. Biggs):
       H.R. 5447. A bill to modernize copyright law, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 5448. A bill to amend the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 to provide eligibility 
     under the assistive technology program for farmers with 
     disabilities to veterans with disabilities and their 
     families; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 5449. A bill to amend the Farm Security and Rural 
     Investment Act of 2002 to support a smart agriculture 
     industry technology roadmap, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 5450. A bill to increase the access of small farmers 
     in Puerto Rico to Federal agriculture programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Jones, 
             Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Walker, Mr. Hudson, 
             Mr. Meadows, Mr. McHenry, and Mr. Budd):
       H.R. 5451. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 10926 Quality Drive in 
     Charlotte, North Carolina, as the ``Julius L. Chambers Civil 
     Rights Memorial Post Office Building''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Takano, Mr. Kilmer, and Ms. 
             Velazquez):
       H.R. 5452. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     eliminate the period of eligibility for the Vocational 
     Rehabilitation and Employment program of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

[[Page H3095]]

  

           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 5453. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act, 
     in relation to requiring adrenoleukodystrophy screening of 
     newborns; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CLAY:
       H.R. 5454. A bill to amend title 13, United States Code, to 
     provide that individuals in prison shall, for the purposes of 
     a decennial census, be attributed to the last place of 
     residence before incarceration, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. DeLAURO:
       H.R. 5455. A bill to prioritize funding for the National 
     Institutes of Health to discover treatments and cures, to 
     maintain global leadership in medical innovation, and to 
     restore the purchasing power which the National Institutes of 
     Health had after the historic doubling campaign that ended in 
     fiscal year 2003; to the Committee on the Budget.
           By Ms. DeLAURO:
       H.R. 5456. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize grants to health centers to expand access to 
     evidence-based substance abuse treatment services; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Stivers, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. Matsui, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. Roybal-Allard, and 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 5457. A bill to amend title XI of the Social Security 
     Act to improve the quality, health outcomes, and value of 
     maternity care under the Medicaid and CHIP programs by 
     developing maternity care quality measures and supporting 
     maternity care quality collaboratives; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GROTHMAN:
       H.R. 5458. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978 to require Members of Congress to file the reports on 
     transactions in stocks, bonds, commodities futures, and other 
     forms of securities which are required under such Act not 
     later than 7 days after the transactions are completed, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. HILL:
       H.R. 5459. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act 
     and the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act to modify 
     the offenses relating to fentanyl, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Donovan, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Engel, Ms. Granger, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Deutch, and Mr. Veasey):
       H.R. 5460. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Education 
     to award grants to eligible entities to carry out educational 
     programs about the Holocaust, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Meng, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Espaillat, 
             and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 5461. A bill to require records of the national 
     instant criminal background check system to be retained for 
     at least 90 days; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PETERSON:
       H.R. 5462. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     provide support for dairy producers, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. ROSEN:
       H.R. 5463. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a credit against income tax for equity 
     investments in research intensive small business concerns, to 
     provide for the proper tax treatment of personal service 
     income earned in pass-thru entities, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Brownley 
             of California, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Cohen, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Kildee, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Titus, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Khanna, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mrs. Dingell, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. 
             Meng, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Judy Chu of California, and Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 5464. A bill to prohibit the pricing of consumer 
     products and services that are substantially similar if such 
     products or services are priced differently based on the 
     gender of the individuals for whose use the products are 
     intended or marketed or for whom the services are performed 
     or offered; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WITTMAN:
       H.R. 5465. A bill to provide that the salaries of Members 
     of a House of Congress will be held in escrow if that House 
     has not agreed to a concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     fiscal year 2019 by April 15, 2018; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.J. Res. 132. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to ``Indirect Auto Lending and 
     Compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act''; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. FRANKEL of Florida (for herself, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Ms. Norton, Ms. Bass, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Barragan, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Kilmer, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. McCollum, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Napolitano, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Beyer, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Titus, Ms. Lee, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Lawson 
             of Florida, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Takano, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. O'Rourke, Ms. Meng, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             McNerney, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Gabbard, 
             Mr. Evans, and Ms. Schakowsky):
       H. Con. Res. 117. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 
     significance of Equal Pay Day to illustrate the disparity 
     between wages paid to men and women; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself and Mr. Payne):
       H. Res. 812. A resolution supporting quality of life for 
     prostate cancer patients; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIPTON (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Pearce, 
             and Mr. Kelly of Mississippi):
       H. Res. 813. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that defense appropriations bills should 
     be considered only as stand-alone measures; to the Committee 
     on Rules.

                          ____________________



