

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1947-S1948]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2589. A bill to amend title V of the Public Health 
     Service Act to establish a grant program to create 
     comprehensive opioid recovery centers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Graham):
       S. 2590. A bill to authorize previously appropriated 
     resources for communities to address persistent or historical 
     crime through collaborative cross-sector partnerships; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary .
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Casey, Mr. Coons, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Hirono, 
             Mr. Kaine, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Menendez, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Reed, Mr. Sanders, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Mr. Udall, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cortez Masto, 
             Mr. Heinrich, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2591. A bill to amend title 9 of the United States Code 
     with respect to arbitration; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. ERNST:
       S. 2592. A bill to establish a competitive bidding process 
     for the relocation of the headquarters of Executive agencies, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Graham, Ms. Harris, Ms. Collins, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. 
             Burr, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 2593. A bill to protect the administration of Federal 
     elections against cybersecurity threats; to the Committee on 
     Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. MURPHY:
       S. 2594. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to extend the exclusion of gain or loss from the sale or 
     exchange of certain brownfield sites from unrelated business 
     taxable income, and to extend expensing of environmental 
     remediation costs; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 2595. A bill to amend the Zimbabwe Democracy and 
     Economic Recovery Act of 2001; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 2596. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to amend the process by which students with certain special 
     circumstances apply for Federal financial aid; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Blunt, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Portman, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Roberts, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Perdue, and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 2597. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize the program of payments to children's hospitals 
     that operate graduate medical education programs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Booker, Ms. Harris, Mr. Merkley, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 2598. A bill to establish State-Federal partnerships to 
     provide students the opportunity to attain higher education 
     as in-State public institutions of higher education without 
     debt, to provide Federal Pell Grant eligibility to DREAMer 
     students, to repeal suspension of eligibility under the 
     Higher Education Act of 1965 for drug-related offenses, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. SMITH:
       S. 2599. A bill to provide for the transfer of certain 
     Federal land in the State of Minnesota for the benefit of the 
     Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe; to the Committee on Indian 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. PAUL (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 2600. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the excise tax on indoor tanning services; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 2601. A bill to amend the Leahy-Smith America Invents 
     Act to extend the period during which the Under Secretary of 
     Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United 
     States Patent and Trademark Office may set or adjust certain 
     fees, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. 
             Capito, and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 2602. A bill to support carbon dioxide utilization and 
     direct air capture research, to facilitate the permitting and 
     development of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration 
     projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Warren, and Ms. 
             Baldwin):
       S. 2603. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a credit against income tax for qualified 
     conservation contributions which include National Scenic 
     Trails; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASEY:
       S. 2604. A bill to amend the Oil Region National Heritage 
     Area Act to reauthorize the Oil Region National Heritage 
     Area, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Ms. Warren, and Mr. 
             Schatz):
       S. 2605. A bill to prohibit public companies from 
     repurchasing their shares on the open market, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mrs. Capito, and Mr. 
             Udall):
       S. 2606. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to award grants for training health 
     professionals to treat opioid addiction and other substance 
     use disorders through using technology-enabled models, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Nelson, and Mr. Reed):
       S. 2607. A bill to provide family members of an individual 
     who they fear is a danger to himself, herself, or others, or 
     law enforcement, with new tools to prevent gun violence; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2608. A bill to provide that a risk evaluation and 
     mitigation strategy communication plan may include 
     information about Federal and State prescribing requirements 
     for controlled substances; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2609. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide grants for State alcohol and drug agencies to use 
     recovery coaches in hospital emergency departments, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Mr. Murphy):
       S. 2610. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to provide coordinated care to patients who 
     have experienced a non-fatal overdose after emergency 
     department discharge, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. LEE:
       S. 2611. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     repeal the environmental quality incentives program; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. MARKEY:
       S. 2612. A bill to provide for the establishment of clean 
     technology consortia to enhance the economic, environmental, 
     and energy security of the United States by promoting 
     domestic development, manufacture, and deployment of clean 
     technologies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Mr. Barrasso):
       S. 2613. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to improve access to mental health services under the 
     Medicare program; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 2614. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     improve the conservation reserve program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Ms. SMITH (for herself and Mr. Young):
       S. 2615. A bill to establish an interagency One Health 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. STABENOW:
       S. 2616. A bill to prioritize education and training for 
     current and future members of the environmental health 
     workforce; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 2617. A bill to recognize the National Aviation Cadet 
     Museum of the United States; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 2618. A bill to amend subpart 1 of part A of title IV of 
     the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 in order 
     to ensure that grant activities do not discourage the 
     reporting of violent offenses or interfere with Federal, 
     State, or local law enforcement agencies; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. SMITH:
       S. 2619. A bill to amend the Farm Security and Rural 
     Investment Act of 2002 to reauthorize energy programs through 
     fiscal year 2023, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. PETERS:
       S. 2620. A bill to establish a Federal cyber joint duty 
     program for cyber employees of

[[Page S1948]]

     Federal agencies; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Brown, 
             Ms. Warren, Mr. Markey, and Mr. Sanders):
       S. 2621. A bill to amend the Occupational Safety and Health 
     Act of 1970 to expand coverage under the Act, to increase 
     protections for whistleblowers, to increase penalties for 
     high gravity violations, to adjust penalties for inflation, 
     to provide rights for victims or their family members, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, and Mr. 
             Lankford):
       S. 2622. A bill to require directors of medical facilities 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs to submit plans to the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs on how to improve such 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 2623. A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation 
     to modify hours of service requirements to include all fish 
     in the definition of ``agricultural commodity'', and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 2624. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     make adjustments to the environmental quality incentives 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. 
             Harris, and Mr. Corker):
       S. 2625. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     provide for the payment of performance royalties to certain 
     producers, mixers, and sound engineers of sound recordings, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 2626. A bill to clarify the requirements for receiving 
     certain grants through the National Mental Health and 
     Substance Use Policy Laboratory; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Murphy, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 2627. A bill to appropriately restrict sales of 
     ammunition; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms. Warren):
       S. 2628. A bill to reaffirm the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe 
     reservation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr. Moran, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 2629. A bill to improve postal operations, service, and 
     transparency; read the first time.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH:
       S. 2630. A bill to amend section 5707 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to require the General Services Administration 
     to make information regarding travel by the heads of 
     Executive agencies and other individuals in senior positions 
     publicly available; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. GRAHAM:
       S.J. Res. 56. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to ``Payday, Vehicle, Title, 
     and Certain High-Cost Installment Loans''; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Enzi, Mr. 
             Rounds, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Hatch, Mr. 
             Wicker, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Heller, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Scott, and Mr. 
             Boozman):
       S.J. Res. 57. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to ``Indirect Auto Lending and 
     Compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act''; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

                          ____________________



