

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 216 (Wednesday, January 3, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2-S3]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         WELCOMING NEW SENATORS

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first, as we begin the 2nd session of the 
115th Congress, I welcome all of my colleagues back from the holiday 
break and wish them a happy new year, and I wish our country a 
wonderful 2018. I was also very gratified to see two of the best former 
Vice Presidents we have ever had on the floor today for the ceremonies. 
I am glad to see former Senators Mondale and Biden--former Vice 
Presidents Mondale and Biden--as feisty and as strong as they have ever 
been and giving us their opinions.
  It is also very exciting to welcome two new Members to this body who 
will be joining the Democratic caucus, Tina Smith from Minnesota and 
Doug Jones from Alabama. In joining this esteemed body, both bring a 
wealth of experience and individual passions.
  Former Lieutenant Governor Tina Smith brings with her several years 
of experience serving at the highest levels of State Government, where 
she focused on economic development and expanding access to rural 
broadband and affordable healthcare, issues she will continue to fight 
for here in the Senate. In that work, Governor Dayton praised her as 
``extremely intelligent, quick to learn and always open to hearing 
others' views.'' She was also dubbed the ``velvet hammer'' by the mayor 
of Minneapolis for her ability to work across the aisle but also to get 
tough when she needs to be. Those are precisely the kinds of qualities 
that make an effective Senator. The people of Minnesota are lucky to 
have Senator Smith, and we look forward to welcoming her in our next 
caucus.
  We also look forward to welcoming Senator Doug Jones--the first 
Democrat from the State of Alabama in a quarter century. He, too, 
represents

[[Page S3]]

the very best of public service, the very best of America, and the 
things we aspire to in this country. One story from his biography 
stands out. As a second-year law student, Doug Jones skipped class to 
attend the trial of the Klansman ringleader of the 1963 bombing of the 
16th Street Baptist Church, an event that shook the conscience of our 
country and helped launch a mighty movement for civil rights. That day 
a young Doug Jones was moved by the disposition of justice, but he was 
left with the impression that other members of the conspiracy had 
escaped the reach of the law. So 24 years later, when Doug Jones became 
the U.S. attorney for the State of Alabama, he pursued charges against 
two more Klan members involved in the bombing, winning their conviction 
and delivering a long-delayed but righteous justice. With his work, 
justice rolled down like a mighty stream. He will continue to fight for 
civil rights and many other issues here in the Senate. I know he cares 
deeply about the CHIP program, which covers 150,000 young Alabamans. I 
hope we can get that done for his State and this country very soon.
  Doug Jones was an excellent candidate. Like Senator Smith, he will 
make an outstanding Senator--she for the State of Minnesota and he for 
the State of Alabama. The voices of Jones and Smith will add to the 
diversity of energy of our caucus. I predict that both will become 
influential voices in this historic Chamber.
  Each of their States had great football victories this weekend, I 
might add. I watched Alabama win over Clemson--sorry, Lindsey and Tim. 
I watched Minnesota, my favorite team outside of the three New York 
teams, come in second in the whole NFC, and it got a bye week as we 
moved to the playoffs. So it is a great day for these two States in a 
whole lot of ways this weekend, and it is very good so far in 2018 with 
the swearing in of these two Senators.

                          ____________________



