

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H3069-H3075]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     SUPPORTING RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND ENCOURAGING INCLUSIVE 
                         GOVERNANCE IN ETHIOPIA

  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
agree to the resolution (H. Res. 128) supporting respect for human 
rights and encouraging inclusive governance in Ethiopia, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
  The text of the resolution is as follows:

                              H. Res. 128

       Whereas the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia has 
     been an important partner of the United States and a regional 
     leader in promoting economic growth, global health, and peace 
     and security;

[[Page H3070]]

       Whereas Ethiopia has helped advance the national interests 
     of the United States and regional partners, including through 
     contributions to international peacekeeping, combating 
     radical Islamist extremism and other forms of terrorism, and 
     regional cooperation through the African Union;
       Whereas Ethiopia has made great strides in addressing 
     significant challenges in global health, child survival, and 
     food security;
       Whereas Ethiopia's transition from authoritarian rule to 
     participatory democracy has not kept pace with other reforms;
       Whereas the ruling Ethiopian Peoples' Revolutionary 
     Democratic Front (EPRDF) claimed to win 99.6 percent of the 
     vote in elections that were deemed neither free nor fair in 
     2010 and all 546 parliamentary seats in 2015, thereby further 
     consolidating the EPRDF's single party rule;
       Whereas the Charities and Societies Proclamation and Anti-
     Terrorism Proclamation, both enacted in 2009, have 
     accelerated the contraction of democratic space, severely 
     limited the practice of fundamental human rights, enabled 
     abuses by security forces, and impeded efforts to promote 
     accountability for such abuses in Ethiopia;
       Whereas government forces launched a violent crackdown on 
     protests by ethnic Oromo and Amhara over their perceived 
     marginalization in 2015, resulting in hundreds of deaths and 
     tens of thousands of arrests;
       Whereas the Government of Ethiopia has recently released 
     hundreds of political prisoners, but has continued to 
     periodically detain government critics and opposition 
     figures;
       Whereas the Government of Ethiopia has periodically imposed 
     a state of emergency that even further restricts freedoms of 
     assembly, association, and expression, including through 
     blockage of mobile internet access and social media 
     communication;
       Whereas the 2017 Department of State Country Report on 
     Human Rights Practices for Ethiopia cited serious human 
     rights violations, including arbitrary arrests, killings, and 
     torture committed by security forces, restrictions on freedom 
     of expression and freedom of association, politically 
     motivated trials, harassment, and intimidation of opposition 
     members and journalists; and
       Whereas these persistent human right abuses, including 
     state-sponsored violence against civilians in the Oromia, 
     Amhara, and Somali regions of Ethiopia, as well as the abuse 
     of laws to stifle journalistic freedoms, stand in direct 
     contrast to democratic principles, violate the Constitution 
     of Ethiopia, and undermine Ethiopia's position as a regional 
     leader for economic growth, peace, and security: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
       (1) recognizes and commends Ethiopia's efforts to promote 
     regional peace and security, including through the 
     contribution of peacekeeping forces to regional and United 
     Nations peacekeeping operations;
       (2) recognizes the importance of continued United States 
     and Ethiopian partnership in combatting terrorism, promoting 
     economic growth and opportunity, and addressing global health 
     challenges;
       (3) notes with deep concern persistent reports of 
     widespread human rights abuses and the contraction of 
     democratic space in Ethiopia, which may threaten stability 
     and reverse economic progress over the long term;
       (4) condemns the use of excessive force by Ethiopian 
     security forces, including the killing of unarmed protesters, 
     and the wrongful arrest and detention of journalists, 
     students, activists, and political leaders exercising their 
     constitutional rights to freedom of assembly, association, 
     and expression;
       (5) recognizes and commends the recent peaceful and 
     voluntary transfer of authority from Prime Minister 
     Hailemariam to new Prime Minister Abiy and welcomes Prime 
     Minister Abiy's inaugural speech calling for open political 
     competition and the defense of fundamental human rights;
       (6) calls on the Government of Ethiopia to--
       (A) lift the state of emergency;
       (B) repeal or amend proclamations used as a tool to 
     suppress human rights in Ethiopia, including the Charities 
     and Societies Proclamation and Anti-Terrorism Proclamation of 
     2009, and respect the rights of Ethiopian citizens to freedom 
     of assembly and expression, in keeping with Articles 30 and 
     29 of the Ethiopian Constitution;
       (C) end the use of excessive force by Ethiopian security 
     forces and hold accountable those responsible for killing, 
     torturing, or otherwise abusing the human rights of civilians 
     exercising their constitutional rights through fair and 
     public trials;
       (D) release all activists, journalists, and opposition 
     figures who have been wrongfully imprisoned for exercising 
     their constitutional rights, including those arrested for 
     reporting about public protests;
       (E) improve transparency around development policies and 
     activities that may infringe upon the human rights of local 
     communities; and
       (F) allow for an independent examination of the state of 
     human rights in Ethiopia by a rapporteur appointed by the 
     United Nations;
       (7) urges protesters in Ethiopia to refrain from the use or 
     incitement of violence in demonstrations;
       (8) urges opposition groups and the Government of Ethiopia 
     to directly engage in peaceful discussions to air grievances 
     and broaden political discourse;
       (9) calls on the Department of State and the United States 
     Agency for International Development--
       (A) to engage in a cooperative effort with the Government 
     of Ethiopia in the formulation of a comprehensive strategy, 
     in coordination with other donors, to help advance democracy, 
     rule of law, human rights, economic growth, and peace and 
     security in Ethiopia;
       (B) continue to strengthen ties with Ethiopia, including 
     through the provision of appropriate levels and forms of 
     security assistance, in correlation to the Ethiopian 
     Government's own demonstrated commitment to democracy, rule 
     of law, human rights, economic growth, and peace and security 
     in the region;
       (C) condemn human rights abuses and the excessive use of 
     force by Ethiopian security forces while pressing for the 
     release of individuals wrongfully detained; and
       (D) hold accountable individuals responsible for gross 
     human rights violations in Ethiopia through appropriate 
     mechanisms, which may include the imposition of targeted 
     sanctions pursuant to the Global Magnitsky Human Rights 
     Accountability Act (Public Law 114-328); and
       (10) stands by the people of Ethiopia and supports their 
     peaceful efforts to increase democratic space and to exercise 
     the rights guaranteed by the Ethiopian Constitution.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. Smith) and the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Keating) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.


                             General Leave

  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks 
and to include extraneous material on this measure.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 128, bipartisan legislation--we got about 114 
Members, maybe as many as 118, a few came in right at the end--is a 
visible and necessary manifestation of deep congressional concern that 
egregious human rights abuses immediately end in Ethiopia and that 
fundamental human rights be promoted and protected for all.
  I would note parenthetically that, like others in this House, my 
commitment to promoting human rights in Ethiopia spans decades and 
includes country visits, chairing numerous congressional hearings and 
legislation, including the Ethiopia Freedom, Democracy, and Human 
Rights Advancement Act of 2006.
  The resolution before us today, Mr. Speaker, is balanced and 
recognizes the recent peaceful and voluntary transfer of power from 
Prime Minister Hailemariam to the new Prime Minister Abiy, and welcomes 
Prime Minister Abiy's inaugural speech calling for open political 
competition and the defense of fundamental human rights. However, Prime 
Minister Abiy has been a member of the governing Ethiopian People's 
Revolutionary Democratic Front since the EPRDF took power in 1991.
  Prior to becoming Prime Minister, he played a critical role in the 
government security apparatus as the cofounder of the Ethiopian 
Information Network Security Agency. He is the leader of the Oromo 
Peoples' Democratic Organization, one of the four ethnic groups that 
make up the EPRDF.
  Also, H. Res. 128 commends Ethiopia's efforts to promote regional 
peace and security, as well as our longstanding partnership in 
addressing health challenges.

                              {time}  1715

  However, the resolution carefully and accurately highlights that, 
despite these developments, human rights abuses remain at the core of 
the government's treatment--or should I say mistreatment--of the 
Ethiopian people.
  So after decades of serious human rights abuse--often ignored and 
trivialized by some in Africa, the European Union, and the United 
States--it is now time for positive action and meaningful deeds. Words, 
Mr. Speaker, are just not enough.
  In a letter asking Members of Congress to support our resolution, 
Amnesty International notes that, in the last 2 months, the government 
has released large numbers of political prisoners--although many remain 
behind

[[Page H3071]]

bars--and closed the notorious Maekelawi prison, known for its torture. 
Yet some have already been rearrested, and all--absolutely all of 
them--are at risk of rearrest. Making matters worse, repressive laws 
and state of emergency, used to brutalize people, remains in place. 
There has been no reform there. None whatsoever.
  Human Rights Watch strongly supports H. Res. 128 and has reported in 
its reporting on human rights that: ``Since late 2015, security forces 
have killed over 1,000 people''--and some estimates put that far 
higher--``and detained tens of thousands during widespread protests 
against government policies.''
  The Human Rights Watch goes on to say: ``A state of emergency began 
in February 2018''--that is just several weeks ago--``the second in 2 
years, and permits draconian restrictions on rights to freedom of 
expression, association, and assembly. Authorities regularly use 
arbitrary arrests and politically motivated prosecutions to silence 
journalists, activists, and perceived opposition party members. Torture 
remains a serious problem in detention.''
  Earlier today,  Mike Coffman and I had a press conference. There were 
several men and women there who have suffered the torture of the 
Ethiopian Government and bear on their bodies and their minds and their 
hearts the horrible and horrific indignity of the use of torture by the 
Government of Ethiopia. Human Rights Watch continues: ``The Ethiopian 
Government has not conducted meaningful investigations into any of 
these abuses. Repressive laws restrict the activities of 
nongovernmental organizations. The ruling coalition won all 547 
parliamentary seats in the 2015 election.''
  All of them. What does that tell you?
  Mr. Speaker, the 2017 Department of State Country Report on Human 
Rights Practices for Ethiopia also cited serious human rights 
violations, including arbitrary arrests, killings, and torture 
committed by the security forces, restrictions on freedom of expression 
and association, politically motivated trials, harassment, and 
intimidation of opposition members and journalists.
  On February 18 of this year, the U.S. Embassy in Ethiopia issued a 
strong statement against the state of emergency. They said, in 
pertinent part: ``We strongly disagree with the Ethiopian Government's 
decision to impose a state of emergency that includes restrictions on 
fundamental rights such as assembly and expression.''
  ``We strongly urge the government to rethink this approach''--the 
State Department goes on to say--``and identify other means to protect 
lives and property while preserving, and indeed expanding, the space 
for meaningful dialogue and political participation. . . . `'
  My resolution--cosponsored by well over 110, I think it is 118 now, 
Members of the House--calls on the Government of Ethiopia to:
  Lift the state of emergency;
  Repeal or amend proclamations used as a tool to suppress human rights 
in Ethiopia, including the so-called Antiterrorism Proclamation--which 
accuses any Ethiopian who criticizes the government of being a 
terrorist--and the Charities and Societies Proclamation--which makes it 
virtually impossible for civil society organizations to function by 
severely restricting foreign funding;
  We are asking in the resolution to stop the killing of peaceful 
protestors and hold accountable those responsible for killing, 
torturing, and detaining innocent civilians;
  Release dissidents, journalists, students, activists, and political 
leaders jailed for exercising their right to free expression and 
peaceful assembly;
  Engage with citizens about development strategies, especially when 
these people could lose their land;
  Allow a U.N. rapporteur unfettered access to examine the state of 
human rights in Ethiopia. Unfettered. Go anywhere, any time, and talk 
to anyone without fear of reprisal or retaliation;
  And the resolution calls on the U.S. Department of State and USAID 
to, among other things, engage in a cooperative effort with the 
Government of Ethiopia in the formulation of a comprehensive strategy 
to help advance democracy, rule of law, human rights, economic growth, 
and peace and security in Ethiopia, and hold accountable individuals 
responsible for gross human rights violations in Ethiopia through 
appropriate mechanisms like the Global Magnitsky Act.
  Mr. Speaker, let me conclude by thanking Congressman  Mike Coffman, 
who has been an amazing tenacious supporter for this legislation and 
has really made a difference in helping to get it to the floor, and, of 
course, our majority leader for actually getting it to the floor. I see 
many of my colleagues on the Democrat side. I thank them. This is 
bipartisan legislation, and that is what it ought to be.
  I want to thank Ms. Bass, the ranking member of the Africa, Global 
Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations 
Subcommittee, for her cosponsorship and leadership as well, as well as 
Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel.
  I would also like to thank the many human rights groups and the 
Ethiopian-American community, who have and continue to work diligently 
and tenaciously to secure fundamental human rights for the people of 
Ethiopia.
  This is a first step today. My hope is that it will begin a process 
of this body being absolutely in solidarity with the oppressed and 
standing in opposition to the oppressor.

  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the resolution.
  I would like to begin by thanking Representative Smith for sponsoring 
H. Res. 128, which expresses support for human rights and encourages 
inclusive governance in Ethiopia. I am a cosponsor of this resolution, 
along with over 100 of my colleagues--a testimony to the work Mr. Smith 
has put into this effort.
  This resolution acknowledges the partnership between the United 
States and the Ethiopian Government. We have partnered together on many 
issues in the world: economic issues, global health issues, and 
security issues. Indeed, the Ethiopian military benefits from the U.S. 
counterterrorism and peacekeeping support programs that we work with 
them on. However, it also expresses concern at the unrest in the Oromo, 
Amhara, and Somali regions since 2015 and the human rights violations 
perpetrated against largely peaceful protestors.
  With the recent election of Prime Minister Abiy last month, Ethiopia 
now has an opportunity to emerge from this crisis to undertake the 
reforms called for in this resolution, including lifting the repressive 
state of emergency, repealing or amending proclamations used to 
suppress human rights, holding accountable those responsible for human 
rights violations, and releasing all remaining political prisoners.
  As the ranking member of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade 
Subcommittee on the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have done a lot of 
work in that subcommittee around the importance of the rule of law and 
of legitimate, accountable governance in making sure communities are 
secure and more resilient to destabilizing influences from criminal and 
terrorist networks.
  This is not just an issue for us on the international front. I am 
also a member of the Homeland Security Committee, and this is an 
important issue in terms of our safety and security here at home.
  Prison sentences for peaceful protest, restrictions on freedom of the 
press, and broad enforcement actions against civil society 
organizations is a recipe for instability--instability that impedes 
economic growth and leaves countries and communities vulnerable to 
security and other threats, both globally and, as I said, back here at 
home.
  When a society witnesses the arrest of over 22,000 persons and the 
closing of over 200 NGOs, we should expect to see the trust between 
communities and their government suffer as a result. Instead, the 
government should work towards promoting this trust that is so critical 
to the right of Ethiopians to live freely and safely at home, as well 
as to their government's strength as a partner with the United States 
and others around the world.
  In light of recent events in Ethiopia, it is important to view Prime 
Minister Abiy's election not as the end of the

[[Page H3072]]

crisis, but as a new beginning for social and political reform in 
Ethiopia. I hope he will undertake this challenge and undertake these 
vital reforms.
  In the spirit of a new beginning, I urge my colleagues to support 
this important resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the 
distinguished gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Coffman), the original 
sponsor of the resolution, and, like I said, a giant when it has come 
to pushing human rights in Ethiopia.
  Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New Jersey for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, today, the United States House of Representatives will 
have an opportunity to vote on H. Res. 128, Supporting Respect for 
Human Rights and Encouraging Inclusive Governance in Ethiopia.
  H. Res. 128 calls upon the Government of Ethiopia to take clear and 
decisive steps toward becoming more inclusive, more democratic, and 
more respectful of the basic human rights of its people.
  There will be those who will argue today that this resolution is 
counterproductive in that the Government of Ethiopia has been a strong 
and dependable ally of the United States of America.
  The opponents will say that the national security interest of the 
United States justifies our support for this government, and, 
therefore, we must ignore the cries of the Ethiopian people who are 
suffering under this repressive regime.
  The opponents fear that the Ethiopian Government will end its 
cooperation with the United States in the war against terrorism if we 
publicly criticize their human rights record by passing this 
resolution.
  But I say to them, for far too long, the United States has looked the 
other way as the Ethiopian Government has so often used the weapons 
that we have provided for them, not to fight terrorism, but 
to terrorize their own people.

  For far too long, the United States has looked the other way as 
peaceful protestors were met with violence from heavily armed Ethiopian 
security forces.
  And, for far too long, the United States has looked the other way as 
journalists, political opposition leaders, and anyone who dared 
question this government were rounded up and shipped off to detention 
camps.
  The U.S.-backed government in Ethiopia has lost its legitimacy to 
govern and rules by brute force and intimidation.
  To the opponents of H. Res. 128, the passage of this resolution will 
mark a setback for the relationship between the United States and 
Ethiopia.
  But it is my hope that the passage of H. Res. 128, Supporting Respect 
for Human Rights and Encouraging Inclusive Governance in Ethiopia, will 
mark a new beginning in the history of the U.S.-Ethiopian relationship 
where the United States will never again have to look the other way, 
and Ethiopia will realize its full potential by embracing all of its 
citizens and becoming the great Nation that it has always been destined 
to be.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the United States House of 
Representatives to support H. Res. 128.
  Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Bass), the ranking member of the Africa, Global Health, 
Global Human Rights, and International Organizations Subcommittee.
  Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 128, 
Supporting Respect for Human Rights and Encouraging Inclusive 
Governance in Ethiopia, and I want to thank our committee chair, Mr. 
Smith, for his many years of effort in this direction.

                              {time}  1730

  The resolution calls on the government of Ethiopia to take clear, 
decisive steps towards becoming more inclusive, more democratic, and 
more respectful of the basic human rights of its citizens.
  Ethiopia is an important partner of the U.S. in many arenas, 
including regional security, especially through its contributions to 
international peacekeeping.
  Over the past few years, Ethiopia has made significant strides in 
addressing poverty and expanding economic development. The country has 
also addressed significant challenges in global health and food 
security. These are extremely important gains.
  We are here today, however, because the country continues to have a 
way to go, especially in the arenas of inclusive governance and respect 
for human rights.
  Since November 2015, there have been ongoing protests in Ethiopia's 
largest region of Oromia. These protests expanded to the Amhara region 
in August 2016. In response, security forces have used live ammunition 
to disperse largely peaceful protests, killing hundreds and arresting 
tens of thousands.
  Activists, journalists, and others have also faced repeated arrests.
  The Ethiopian Government has responded by imposing a state of 
emergency that included curfews and restrictions on the assembly, 
expression, and movement of its citizens. Meanwhile, earlier this year, 
the government began releasing prisoners, including opposition leaders, 
journalists, and protesters. The government also focused on an infamous 
detention center. Of course, this is a step in the right direction.
  We are also encouraged by the recent transfer of power. The new prime 
minister, Dr. Abiy Ahmed, recently delivered a speech where he 
highlighted that the government plans to address unity and national 
reconciliation as well as good governance based on the rule of law. It 
also seeks to crack down on corruption.
  Again, this is encouraging and it could be an important turning point 
for the country that could provide an opportunity to widen the 
political space, but what remains concerning, however, is that Ethiopia 
is still under a state of emergency, and just last month, the defense 
minister announced the arrest of a number of individuals who they say 
were linked to protests.
  We encourage the Government of Ethiopia to keep the positive momentum 
going by lifting the state of emergency, ensuring freedom of expression 
and assembly, and opening up democratic space.
  The current challenges facing Ethiopia are best addressed through 
inclusive discourse and political processes rather than through the 
imposition of restrictions.
  Mr. Speaker, I therefore encourage Members to vote in favor of this 
resolution that supports respect for human rights and encourages 
inclusive governance in Ethiopia.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Paulsen), one of the cosponsors of this 
legislation.
  Mr. PAULSEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to also thank Chairman Smith, along with his 
bipartisan colleagues, in joining together in authoring this 
legislation and bringing this bipartisan legislation forward and 
speaking in support of and respect of human rights in Ethiopia.
  This legislation takes a very important first step for what needs to 
be identified and moved forward in terms of identifying what has been 
happening for too long, where the Ethiopian Government has been 
persecuting the Oromo, Ethiopia's largest minority and ethnic group.
  Peaceful protests, led largely by Oromo's youth, have been met with 
government repression. Hundreds have been killed and thousands more 
have been injured. Now, most of those have also been arrested and 
detained by Ethiopia's security forces.
  Estimates are that hundreds of thousands of Oromians have been 
uprooted from their homes and forced to flee the persecution and the 
violence. There is no doubt that Ethiopia is a very important U.S. 
ally, but that does not mean that we should turn a blind eye as it 
oppresses its people.
  Now, in my State of Minnesota, we are home to the largest community 
of Oromians outside of Ethiopia. They are valued members of our 
community and we are very fortunate to have them.
  I joined many Ethiopians and Oromians actually this past Sunday night 
when I attended a very large and moving interfaith rally with members 
of the African and Jewish community, and they were all together 
reaffirming

[[Page H3073]]

their commitment to religious freedom, to diversity, and to justice. 
Sadly, many Oromians today won't find these ideals in their home 
country of Ethiopia.
  Mr. Speaker, today the House can speak with a solid, strong voice to 
support human rights and also condemn the killing of innocent 
protesters and the arrest and detention of journalists and students and 
political leaders.
  We are also at the same time urging through this resolution that the 
protesters also refrain from violence, and also urge the Ethiopian 
Government to take very concrete steps to end its persecution and 
oppressive conduct.
  Today we have an opportunity to take these important steps in showing 
our solidarity with the Oromians, and I hope my colleagues will join in 
support of this resolution.
  Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Ellison), who is an original cosponsor of this 
legislation.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I also 
thank Chairman Smith and the ranking member for standing together on 
this important House Resolution 128.
  It is true that Minnesota is home to a large number of people who 
find their roots in Ethiopia and are of the Oromo background.
  These Minnesotans have made it very clear by reaching out to their 
elected representatives that while their feet are firmly planted on 
American soil, they still, like so many other Americans, have a heart 
and a sentiment where they want to support justice in the homeland that 
they came from. As a result, I have been able to get an education from 
my constituents about circumstances in Ethiopia which make this 
resolution necessary.

  So I do rise in support of House Resolution 128, which calls on the 
Government of Ethiopia to make clear, concrete steps toward becoming 
inclusive, more democratic, more respectful of human rights of all of 
its citizens.
  I would like to note that this is a bipartisan resolution, proving 
that we can come together for critical issues like human rights in 
Ethiopia for Americans who find their roots in Ethiopia and for people 
all over the world.
  In Minnesota, as I noted, we are fortunate to be home to one of the 
largest Oromo and Ogaden communities in North America, and it is 
because of the relentless work of these folks that these issues have 
come to light. I thank them. Many of them are here today. They have 
been working on this issue for many years, Mr. Speaker, because it is 
that vitally important.
  Now, as my colleagues have noted, Ethiopia is an important ally of 
the United States, that is a fact, but even allies must be held 
accountable when they violate the human rights of their people. Status 
as an ally is not a license to abuse human rights.
  The Ethiopian people desperately need their government to take action 
to secure their human rights and expand inclusive democracy.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentleman from Minnesota an 
additional 2 minutes.
  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, the Ethiopian Government continues to 
detain journalists, bloggers, students, and political opposition 
leaders. Thousands remain in prison to this day.
  In addition, the Ethiopian Government admits to killing over 500 of 
its citizens during the protests in an effort to suppress the people's 
freedom of speech. Most observers put this number far higher.
  These abuses have created a serious instability in the country. While 
there have been some signs of progress, which must be noted, including 
the recent election of a prime minister from the Oromo region, we must 
continue to push for real, concrete changes. For example, the 
government should let the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights 
travel through the country to conduct an independent assessment of the 
human rights situation in the country.
  By passing this resolution, Congress will be making clear that we 
will not remain silent on this important issue, we will stand together 
across the political divide in support of these human rights in 
Ethiopia.
  By passing this resolution, we will speed up democratic change in 
Ethiopia.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this 
important resolution.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume for the purpose of closing.
  Mr. Speaker, I will note that Chairman Royce has been a big factor in 
moving this forward, and when I give thanks to Mr. Smith and over 100 
more colleagues, I want to make sure that Chairman Royce is a person 
that is highlighted for his great efforts.
  We are going to miss him, as he has decided not to seek reelection. 
He has been a person that has shown great ability to be a bipartisan 
leader on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I have enjoyed working 
with him on this issue and many other issues.
  Mr. Speaker, this resolution seeks to support Ethiopia's political 
transition as it hopefully moves beyond a state of emergency towards 
greater civil liberties under a new prime minister.
  This resolution also supports the Ethiopian people and their 
aspirations to live in a more democratic system in which government 
respects fundamental freedoms.
  We have partnered with Ethiopia on so many important issues, issues 
important to their own security, their own health, their own global 
welfare, and we also recognize the value in that partnership in dealing 
with the security issues and the ideals and values that the United 
States has as a country.
  This resolution strongly urges them to take that other step, to 
expand that partnership beyond those issues into a partnership of 
democracy where there will be rule of law, freedom of the press, where 
opposition people will not be endangered in terms of their safety, will 
not be imprisoned.
  Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H. Res. 128, and I urge my colleagues 
to go forward.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume to close.
  Mr. Speaker, I include these letters of support in the Record. I call 
attention to the membership an excellent letter written by human rights 
and diaspora groups, six groups in all. It is entitled, ``Ethiopia: 
Joint Letter About U.S. House Resolution 128'', in support of it. They 
make a number of very important points.

          Ethiopia: Joint Letter About US House Resolution 128


 Democracy, Human Rights and Diaspora Groups Urge Congress to Pass H. 
                          Res. 128 on Ethiopia

       Ethiopia is at a crossroads. On Monday, April 2, a new 
     Prime Minister, selected from within the ruling coalition, 
     delivered a speech about planned reforms while the country 
     was under another State of Emergency. At such a juncture, 
     amid mounting pressures, the role of the US, Ethiopia's 
     longstanding international ally to encourage critically-
     needed reforms and human rights protections, should not be 
     underestimated in urging the country toward a new era of 
     stability.
       The undersigned human rights and diaspora groups fully 
     support the passage of House Resolution 128 for the positive 
     contribution it can make toward respecting basic human rights 
     and encouraging inclusive governance in Ethiopia. The 
     resolution has strong bipartisan support and more than 100 
     co-sponsors. In addition, H. Res. 128 has significant 
     grassroots support among constituents across the US who have 
     ties to Ethiopia. It calls on the government of Ethiopia to 
     open up civic space, ensure accountability for human rights 
     abuses and promote inclusive governance.
       For the past three years, Ethiopia has faced largely 
     peaceful and sustained protests in the Oromia and Amhara 
     regions of the country. These protests were led by youth 
     seeking opportunity, political reform and more participatory 
     development strategies. The government responded with 
     excessive force. More than a thousand protesters have been 
     killed by Ethiopian security forces, a greater number 
     injured, tens of thousands imprisoned and many tortured for 
     expressing grievances. Over a million, mostly from Oromia, 
     were uprooted due to government-instigated conflict in the 
     Eastern part of the country.
       However, a combination of forces has accumulated in support 
     of the protesters--diaspora groups and international human 
     rights organizations helped publicize the protest movement in 
     Ethiopia and the government's violent response; the US 
     Congress rallied behind H. Res. 128; international news 
     outlets gave frequent coverage of the protests. At

[[Page H3074]]

     the dawn of this new year, the EPRDF coalition announced 
     reforms and some changes began to occur. Close to 7000 
     political prisoners were released in January and February of 
     2018, Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn stepped down within 
     days, and Dr. Abiy Ahmed, a man with ties to the region most 
     impacted by the protests, was put forward by the coalition as 
     Ethiopia's newest prime minister.
       In light of these beginnings, now more than ever, it is 
     imperative that the United States Congress take a stand that 
     reiterates the need for Ethiopia to take further steps in a 
     democratic direction by passing H. Res. 128. Ethiopia's 
     previous transfers of power indicate that leadership change 
     is often followed by unfulfilled promises, a culling of 
     opponents and power consolidation. If Prime Minister Abiy is 
     truly committed to breaking that pattern, this resolution 
     will encourage Ethiopia to lift the State of Emergency, 
     ensuring freedoms of expression and assembly and opening up 
     democratic space, all prerequisites for political and 
     economic reform.
       1) H. Res. 128 is a signal of support for the youth in the 
     country who have organized to peacefully demand justice and 
     democracy and have paid a terrible price in terms of loss of 
     life, injury and arbitrary detention. Accountability for the 
     human rights violations that have occurred over the last 3 
     years will be an essential step towards genuine 
     reconciliation and is a key demand from the protesters.
       2) H. Res. 128 contains clauses that could strengthen the 
     hand of the Prime Minister vis-a-vis less responsive segments 
     within the EPRDF party coalition structure, requiring 
     negotiation with the forces that control the country's 
     security apparatus, intelligence and the economic sectors.
       3) H. Res. 128 contains clauses that call on the State 
     Department and USAID to develop a comprehensive strategy to 
     support improved democracy and governance in Ethiopia.
       4) H. Res. 128 contains clauses that call on the Secretary 
     of State and Secretary of Treasury to apply appropriate 
     sanctions on individuals and organizations responsible for 
     gross human rights.
       We support passage of H. Res. 128 as a means to send a 
     strong, unambiguous signal that the United States Congress 
     requires concrete reforms. Such reforms are needed to create 
     a path toward improved respect and protection of human and 
     civil rights, political stability and sustainable regional 
     security.
       We urge members of the House to pass the resolution.
     Amhara Association of America.
     Coalition of Oromos for Human Rights and Democracy.
     Ethiopian Advocacy Network.
     Ethiopian Human Rights Project.
     Human Rights Watch.
     Oromo Advocacy Alliance.
                                  ____



                                        Amnesty International,

                                    Washington, DC, April 9, 2018.
     Re Amnesty International USA (``AIUSA'') urges the House to 
         vote yes on H. Res. 128 which will be on the House floor 
         on April 10.

       Dear Representative: On behalf of AIUSA and our two million 
     members and supporters nationwide, we are writing to urge you 
     to vote YES for H. Res. 128, supporting respect for human 
     rights and encouraging inclusive governance in Ethiopia.
       H. Res. 128 outlines key benchmarks for critically needed 
     human rights reform in Ethiopia and calls for a review of 
     U.S. policy toward Ethiopia to prioritize human rights and 
     good governance.
       H. Res. 128 was approved by Voice Vote by the House Foreign 
     Affairs Committee in July 2017 and has strong bipartisan 
     support with 108 cosponsors including 29 Republicans and 79 
     Democrats.
       Following highly contested elections in 2005 the Ethiopian 
     government imposed a web of laws criminalizing any form of 
     dissent or questioning of government policies. These laws 
     have empowered authorities to engage in widespread 
     surveillance, and have resulted in the arrest and detention 
     of members of civil society.
       For the past three years the Ethiopian people have been 
     subjected to brutal repression by the security forces in 
     response to protests against the increasingly autocratic rule 
     of the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front 
     (``EPRDF''). Over 1000 people have been killed since 2015 and 
     according to the Ethiopian government's own admission, 10,000 
     people were arrested during the first state of emergency 
     between 2016 and 2017. Amnesty International believes that 
     the figure is above 25,000. The current human rights crisis 
     is the result of years of repression by security forces using 
     sweeping legislation criminalizing dissent, the arrest of 
     civil society leaders and journalists, and brutal crackdowns 
     leading to scores of extrajudicial executions, massacres and 
     the destruction of property and livelihoods. The Ethiopian 
     government has created a culture of impunity and a climate of 
     fear.
       Ethiopia is currently under its second State of Emergency 
     since 2016. Amnesty International has documented unlawful 
     killings, forced displacement, arbitrary arrests, detentions, 
     as well as torture and the ill-treatment of detainees.
       In the last two months there have been some positive 
     developments in Ethiopia: a new prime minister has been 
     appointed, the government released a large number of 
     political prisoners and closed the notorious Maekelawi Prison 
     known for torture. However, many more prisoners remain behind 
     bars. While the country's web of repressive legislation 
     remains in place and the state of emergency is in effect, all 
     those individuals who have been released remain at risk of 
     re-arrest. Indeed, some of them have been re-re-arrested. At 
     the same time protests are continuing and are being met with 
     brutal force by government authorities.
       H. Res. 128 is a direct appeal to the Ethiopian authorities 
     to listen to their people, change course, and uphold human 
     rights and the rule of law.
       H. Res. 128 calls on the US Secretary of State to:
       Conduct a review of security assistance to Ethiopia to 
     improve transparency with respect to the purposes of such 
     assistance to the people of Ethiopia and,
       Work with the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development, to improve oversight and 
     accountability of U.S. assistance to Ethiopia, pursuant to 
     the expectations established in the U.S. Strategy Toward Sub-
     Saharan Africa.
       H. Res. 128 call on the Ethiopian government to lift the 
     state of emergency and end the use of excessive force by 
     security forces. The resolution calls the government to 
     conduct a credible, transparent investigation into human 
     rights violations committed during the last three years, in 
     an expedient manner and for those responsible for the 
     killing, torture, and detention of innocent civilians who 
     exercised their constitutional rights to be held accountable.
       H. Res. 128 call on the Ethiopian government to take steps 
     to restore the respect and protection of human rights and 
     enforce accountability as provided under the Ethiopian 
     Constitution including the
       Release dissidents, activists, and journalists who have 
     been imprisoned; respect freedom of peaceful assembly, 
     freedom of the press and media;
       Repeal of laws that
       (i) can be used as a tool to harass or prohibit funding for 
     civil society organizations that investigate human rights 
     violations, engage in peaceful political dissent, or advocate 
     for greater political freedoms.
       (ii) prohibit or limit those displaced from their land from 
     seeking remedy or redress in courts,
       (iii) restrict access to justice for displaced persons
       (iv) prohibit or otherwise limit peaceful nonprofit 
     operations in Ethiopia.
       H. Res. 128 urges the Ethiopian government to cooperate 
     with a rapporteur appointed by the United Nations to conduct 
     an independent examination of the state of human rights in 
     Ethiopia.
       Ethiopia has engaged in a number of ambitious large-scale 
     development projects that have displaced hundreds of 
     thousands of villagers. A key trigger of the three years of 
     protest was the proposed expansion of the capital Addis Ababa 
     on lands occupied by members of the Oromo community. H. Res. 
     128 call upon the Ethiopian government to engage in open and 
     transparent consultations with citizens regarding its 
     development plans, especially those strategies that could 
     result in the displacement of people from their land and 
     address the grievances brought forward by representatives of 
     registered opposition parties.
       Finally, H. Res. 128 reiterates Congress' support for the 
     people of Ethiopia and their peaceful efforts to exercise the 
     rights guaranteed by the Ethiopian constitution.
       Amnesty International USA urges you to vote YES on H. Res. 
     128 and for the full House to pass this important resolution.
       For more information, please contact me.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Adotei Akwei,
                                         Africa Advocacy Director.

  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. For the past 3 years, they point out, as we 
know, Ethiopia has faced largely peaceful and sustained protesters in 
the Oromia and Amhara regions of the country. They were led by youth 
seeking opportunity, political reform, and more participatory 
development strategies. The government responded with excessive force. 
More than 1,000 protesters have been killed by the Ethiopian security 
forces, a greater number injured, tens of thousands imprisoned, and 
many more tortured for expressing grievances. Over 1 million have been 
displaced.
  Let me just say in conclusion that they talk about the importance of 
supporting this. Yes, there is a new prime minister, but as they point 
out in their statement, and it is so true, Ethiopia's previous 
transfers of power indicate that leadership change is often followed by 
unfulfilled promises, a culling of opponents, and power consolidation. 
That can't happen again.
  Mr. Speaker, this resolution, I think, deserves the support of every 
single Member.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 128 
Supporting Respect for Human Rights and Encouraging Inclusive 
Governance in Ethiopia.

[[Page H3075]]

  This resolution condemns the killing of peaceful protestors by the 
Ethiopian security forces and calls upon the government of Ethiopia to 
hold accountable those responsible for killing, torturing, and 
detaining innocent civilians who are exercising their constitutional 
rights.
  Passing H. Res. 128 brings attention to the stifling of political and 
civil dissent and journalistic freedoms committed by the Ethiopian 
government.
  Mr. Speaker, as co-sponsor of this resolution, we recognize that the 
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia has been an ally of the United 
States and the preservation of basic constitutional rights in this 
country is the bed-rock of any democracy.
  Protestors in Ethiopia are urged to refrain from violent 
demonstrations and encouraged to engage in peaceful negotiations.
  However, the responsibility lies upon the government to implement 
democratic principles and respect the right to peaceful assembly and 
guarantee freedom of the press.
  Since protests started in Oromia in 2015, the Ethiopian government 
has charged more than 150 students, opposition leaders, and activists 
at the Federal High Court under the 2009 Anti-Terrorism Proclamation 
(ATP).
  They have repeatedly abused such laws to limit the freedom of the 
press, silence independent journalists, and persecute members of the 
political opposition.
  Ethiopian Human Rights Commission reported 669 deaths by April 2017 
and Human Rights Watch subsequently reported that the Ethiopian 
security forces had killed between 500 and 800 peaceful protestors in 
the Oromia and Amhara regions by November 2016, and the number is 
likely higher.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 128 to show 
their support and compassion for the people suffering as victims of 
human rights violations at the hands of their government.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) that the House suspend the rules 
and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 128, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the resolution, as amended, was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



