

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




COMMEMORATING THE 22ND ANNIVERSARY OF THE BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE SHOOT-
                                  DOWN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to commemorate the 22nd 
anniversary of the Brothers to the Rescue shoot-down, where three U.S. 
citizens and one U.S. resident were murdered by the tyrannical Castro 
regime.
  On February 24, 1996, Carlos Costa, Mario de la Pena, Armando 
Alejandre, and Pablo Morales were on a humanitarian mission over 
international airspace, over international waters when they were 
illegally and brutally shot down. This mission over the Florida straits 
sought to save the lives of Cubans fleeing Castro's grip of power in 
search of freedom.
  Sylvia Iriondo was rescued in a Cessna and brought to the safety of 
our shores. You see, Mr. Speaker, Sylvia was aboard the only plane that 
survived on that fatal day. She recounts how, after seeing the burst of 
smoke over the skyline, the pilot, Jose Basulto--who, along with 
Sylvia, has testified before the U.S. Congress--pleaded on the radio 
for his colleagues to respond. Twenty-two years have passed and justice 
for the deaths of our American heroes has yet to be achieved.
  Ruben Martinez Puente, Lorenzo Alberto Perez y Perez, and Francisco 
Perez y Perez have all been indicted in our U.S. courts for their roles 
in the murderous Brothers to the Rescue shoot-down, but they have yet 
to be held accountable.
  I have urged administration after administration to bring these 
perpetrators to the United States so that they can be prosecuted and 
justice can be served.
  Furthermore, the Obama administration made the grave error of 
releasing Cuban spy Gerardo Hernandez, who was convicted of conspiracy 
to commit espionage and conspiracy to commit murder for his role in the 
deaths of these brave pilots--released.
  I will continue to urge our Department of Justice to pursue legal 
action against all current and former Cuban regime operatives who 
perpetrated that murderous attack against the Brothers to the Rescue 
aircrafts, its unarmed victims, and all Cuban operatives who planned or 
otherwise participated in the shoot-down.
  To this day, the same regime that violated international law to kill 
Carlos, Mario, Armando, and Pablo remains as oppressive as ever, 
routinely beating and harassing peaceful protesters and incarcerating 
journalists.
  We cannot let anyone forget the blood at the hands of the Castro 
regime. The Brothers to the Rescue and their families will forever 
serve as an inspiration to those who are willing to endure great 
sacrifices for the sake of a free Cuba.


  Commemorating the 2018 Florida International University Torch Awards

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate the 
recipients of the 2018 Torch Awards from my alma mater, Florida 
International University.
  The Torch Award is the highest honor given to both faculty and alumni 
by the FIU Alumni Association, highlighting the excellence that they 
bring to their professions and the pride they bring to FIU as an 
educational institution. Their exceptional achievements and 
contributions not only to our university but to our Miami community at 
large have earned them this prestigious award.
  This year's honorees include:
  Alumnus of the Year Chad Moss, class of 1994. Chad currently serves 
as the executive vice president of Moss and Associates, one of 
Florida's largest private construction companies.
  Outstanding Faculty Award Recipient Dr. Mark Allen Weiss. Dr. Weiss 
is an eminent scholar chaired professor and the associate director of 
academic affairs for the FIU School of Computing and Information 
Sciences.
  Community Leadership Award recipient Seth Crapp of the class of 1998. 
Seth is a pediatric radiologist and has demonstrated exemplary service 
and civic engagement in his community through his activism at 
Knots4Kids, T. Leroy Jefferson Medical Society, and two-time chair of 
the group's annual health fair which has benefited thousands of 
underserved children in Palm Beach.
  Lastly, the Charles E. Perry Young Alumni Visionary Award recipient, 
Manny Varas, class of 2010 and an MBA in 2014. Manny, the president and 
CEO of MV Group, a full service construction company, has made great 
strides in the early stages of his career.
  These individuals, Mr. Speaker, and the many other distinguished 
alumni honored this year exemplify what it means to be an FIU Panther. 
Their service to the betterment of our community makes them valuable 
and deserving of this great honor. I congratulate them all.
  Go Panthers.

                          ____________________



