

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1372-H1373]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, and 
             Mr. Neal):
       H.R. 5155. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to improve affordability of, undo 
     sabotage with respect to, and increase access to health 
     insurance coverage, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Ways and Means, and Education and the Workforce, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 5156. A bill to protect publicly owned trees from 
     unnecessary destruction, maiming, or alteration, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan (for himself and Mr. 
             Schneider):
       H.R. 5157. A bill to ensure that certain incidents 
     involving a covered employee that are reported to the title 
     IX coordinator at an eligible institution of higher education 
     have been reviewed by the president of the institution and 
     not less than 1 additional member of the institution's board 
     of trustees, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 5158. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to request nominations for and make determinations regarding 
     roads to be designated under the national scenic byways 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 5159. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the refined coal production tax credit and 
     modify the qualifying advanced coal project credit; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 5160. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for coverage of cancer care planning 
     and coordination under the Medicare program; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Connolly, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Mr. Pocan, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Higgins 
             of New York, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Foster, Mr. Ted Lieu 
             of California, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Engel, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, 
             Mr. Schiff, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Payne, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Welch, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, and Ms. McCollum):
       H.R. 5161. A bill to require the Surgeon General of the 
     Public Health Service to submit to Congress an annual report 
     on the effects of gun violence on public health; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Vargas, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, 
             Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Meeks, Ms. McCollum, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Keating, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Ms. Plaskett, and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H.R. 5162. A bill to amend the Consumer Product Safety Act 
     to remove the exclusion of pistols, revolvers, and other 
     firearms from the definition of consumer product in order to 
     permit the issuance of safety standards for such articles by 
     the Consumer Product Safety Commission; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Takano, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Cummings, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Norton, and Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 5163. A bill to amend chapter 44 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to prohibit the sale or other disposition of a 
     firearm to, and the possession, shipment, transportation, or 
     receipt of a firearm by, certain classes of high-risk 
     individuals; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Ms. Moore, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Maxine Waters 
             of California, Ms. DeGette, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Hastings, and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 5164. A bill to expand economic opportunities, improve 
     community policing, and promote common-sense gun violence 
     prevention in underserved communities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Education and the Workforce, Financial 
     Services, Ways and Means, Small Business, Oversight and 
     Government Reform, Agriculture, Rules, and Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
       H.R. 5165. A bill to prohibit entities from requiring 
     individuals to submit to arbitration for disputes arising 
     from a security breach, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
       H.R. 5166. A bill to direct the Federal Trade Commission to 
     review and potentially revise its standards for safeguarding 
     customer information to ensure that such standards require 
     certain consumer reporting agencies and service providers of 
     such agencies to maintain sufficient safeguards against cyber 
     attacks and related threats, to provide for additional 
     authority to enforce such standards with respect to such 
     agencies and providers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself and Mr. Castro of Texas):
       H.R. 5167. A bill to provide for the termination of 
     residential or motor vehicle leases and telephone service 
     contracts for Foreign Service officers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 5168. A bill to amend the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990

[[Page H1373]]

     to establish seaweed as a high-priority research and 
     extension area, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 5169. A bill to amend the Competitive, Special, and 
     Facilities Research Grant Act to prioritize research on 
     sensor and imager technology in agriculture, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. WESTERMAN:
       H.R. 5170. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     reauthorize and reform the Land and Water Conservation Fund, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committees on Agriculture, 
     and Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LaHood (for himself, Mr. Bacon, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, and Mr. Kihuen):
       H. Con. Res. 111. Concurrent resolution recognizing and 
     supporting the efforts of the United Bid Committee to bring 
     the 2026 Federation Internationale de Football Association 
     (FIFA) World Cup competition to Canada, Mexico, and the 
     United States; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CONAWAY (for himself and Mr. Connolly):
       H. Res. 763. A resolution calling upon the leadership of 
     the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
     to dismantle its labor camp system, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



