

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H416-H417]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           HONORING BOB DOLE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, today I rise because today 
former Senator Bob Dole will receive the Nation's highest civilian 
honor to recognize his decades of service as a soldier, a lawmaker, and 
a statesman. House and Senate leaders will present the 94-year-old 
former Senator with the Congressional Gold Medal.
  Senator Dole represented Kansas for 35 years: first as a 
Representative of this House, and later lending his leadership to the 
U.S. Senate. In 1996, he was the GOP candidate for President.
  President Ronald Reagan, in 1989, said that Senator Dole served 
America heroically and ``has . . . been a friend to veterans, farmers, 
and Americans from every walk of life. Bob Dole has stood for 
integrity, straight talk, and achievement throughout his years of 
distinguished public service.''
  Senator Dole has served this country, this Nation, on the 
battlefield, enlisting with the U.S. Army during World War II. During a 
military offensive in Italy, he was seriously wounded while trying to 
save a fellow soldier. Despite his grave injuries, Dole recovered and 
was awarded two Purple Hearts and a Bronze Star with an oak cluster for 
his service, among other medals.
  I am proud that we will honor Senator Dole today for his life of 
service to the United States both in the military and here on Capitol 
Hill. It is sure to be a moving ceremony in honor of a real American 
hero.


                   Honoring Army Secretary Mark Esper

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, service to one's country 
is among the most notable and selfless acts throughout history. Our 
military men and women have shown uncompromising honor, dedication to 
duty, and genuine love of country.
  This evening, Members of Congress will have an opportunity to meet 
the 23rd Secretary of the Army, the Honorable Mark T. Esper. Secretary 
Esper is a 1986 graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He 
served on Active Duty for more than 10 years before transitioning into 
the Reserve, achieving the rank of lieutenant colonel.
  Secretary Esper's service included deployment with the 101st Airborne 
Division during Operation Desert Storm. For his valor during that 
operation, he was awarded the Bronze Star Medal.
  Proudly, the Secretary is a Pennsylvania native. He graduated from 
Laurel Highlands High School in Uniontown, Pennsylvania, in 1982. 
Secretary Esper later earned a master's degree in public administration 
from Harvard and a doctorate from George Washington University.
  I am looking forward to meeting the Secretary tonight thanks to the 
reception hosted by the House Army Caucus.
  In addition to the Secretary, we will be joined by General Mark 
Milley, the 39th Chief of Staff of the Army. The Army senior leaders 
and members of the Army staff will also attend.
  This reception provides an important opportunity for Members to meet 
directly with Secretary Esper and General Milley as well as the Army 
staff to gain their perspectives on the strategic environment facing 
the Army during the 115th Congress and discuss issues facing our Army, 
our soldiers, and their families.
  Two outstanding events will take place today in the Capitol, and I 
look forward to both of these historic occasions.


      Congratulating the Pennsylvania State Showmen's Association

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the 
Pennsylvania State Showmen's Association on the occasion of their 50th 
anniversary. I look forward to joining them Friday evening at their 
annual Pennsylvania State Showmen's Association convention as they 
celebrate this monumental milestone.
  The Pennsylvania State Showmen's Association has served to keep the 
outdoor amusement industry alive and strong through their combined 
efforts. The PSSA has grown because its members have learned to put 
their individual goals aside for the common goals of the industry. This 
unity really has given them the strength and foresight necessary to 
continue their work into the next century.
  Their annual convention and trade show brings together board members, 
volunteers, and staff from most of the 109 Pennsylvania county and 
local fairs.
  For 14 years, their supportive scholarships have generated more than 
$200,000.

[[Page H417]]

  


                              {time}  1015

  Their investment in our Commonwealth's next generation of leadership 
is to be commended.
  Thanks to all the members of the Pennsylvania State Showmen's 
Association for the work that they do, to the best of their human 
ability, to keep the outdoor amusement industry the best of America's 
family entertainment. Congratulations and happy 50th.

                          ____________________



