

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1945]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE

  At 10:35 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
agreed to the amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 3731) to 
provide overtime pay for employees of the United States Secret Service, 
and for other purposes.
  The message also announced that the House has passed the following 
bill, in which it requests the concurrence of the Senate:

       H.R. 5247. An act to authorize the use of eligible 
     investigational drugs by eligible patients who have been 
     diagnosed with a stage of a disease or condition in which 
     there is reasonable likelihood that death will occur within a 
     matter of months, or with another eligible illness, and for 
     other purposes.


                         Enrolled Bills Signed

  The message further announced that the Speaker has signed the 
following enrolled bill:

       S. 2040. An act to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 621 Kansas Avenue in 
     Atchison, Kansas, as the ``Amelia Earhart Post Office 
     Building''.

  The enrolled bill was subsequently signed by the President pro 
tempore (Mr. Hatch).
                                  ____

  At 11:22 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the Speaker 
has signed the following enrolled bill:

       H.R. 1865. An act to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to clarify that section 230 of such Act does not prohibit the 
     enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
     computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law 
     relating to sexual exploitation of children or sex 
     trafficking, and for other purposes.

  The enrolled bill was subsequently signed by the President pro 
tempore (Mr Hatch)
                                  ____

  At 2:05 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 4227. An act to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to examine what actions the Department of Homeland 
     Security is undertaking to combat the threat of vehicular 
     terrorism, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 4467. An act to require the Federal Air Marshal 
     Service to utilize risk-based strategies, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 5089. An act to improve threat information sharing, 
     integrated operations, and law enforcement training for 
     transportation security, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 5131. An act to improve the effectiveness of Federal 
     efforts to identify and address homeland security risks to 
     surface transportation, secure against vehicle-based attacks, 
     and conduct a feasibility assessment of introducing new 
     security technologies and measures, and for other purposes.

  The message also announced that the House has agreed to the following 
concurrent resolution, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H. Con. Res. 116. Concurrent resolution providing for a 
     correction in the enrollment of H.R. 1625.

  The message further announced that the House agreed to the amendment 
of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 1625) to amend the State Department 
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to include severe forms of trafficking in 
persons within the definition of transnational organized crime for 
purposes of the rewards program of the Department of State, and for 
other purposes, with an amendment, in which it requests the concurrence 
of the Senate.


                          Enrolled Bill Signed

  At 3:20 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the Speaker 
has signed the following enrolled bill:

       H.R. 3731. An act to provide overtime pay for employees of 
     the United States Secret Service, and for other purposes.

  The enrolled bill was subsequently signed by the President pro 
tempore (Mr. Hatch).
                                  ____

  At 3:56 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
agreed to the amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 4851) to 
establish the Kennedy-King National Commemorative Site in the State of 
Indiana, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



