

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1995]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        EPA ADMINISTRATOR PRUITT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the Wheeler nomination sheds even more 
light on the current storm surrounding EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. 
If there was ever somebody who characterizes the swamp, it is Scott 
Pruitt, and all Americans should believe that, regardless of your views 
on the environment or whether wind or solar or natural gas or oil or 
coal is the right form of energy.
  What Pruitt is doing is just incredible. In a relatively brief tenure 
at EPA, he has amassed an embarrassing list of scandals. He has ordered 
the construction of an expensive soundproof office at the EPA for 
reasons unknown, when none of his predecessors, Democratic or 
Republican, saw any need for such a facility. He has typically flown 
coach when paying for travel out of his own pocket but elected to fly 
first class when the taxpayers foot the bill. After moving to 
Washington, Administrator Pruitt rented an apartment for a cutrate 
price from--guess who--an energy lobbyist and former campaign donor who 
represents multiple clients with businesses before the EPA during 
Pruitt's tenure.
  The level of hypocrisy in this administration is staggering. 
President Trump says he is going to drain the swamp. Pruitt 
characterizes the swamp in just about all of his actions, and Trump 
sticks by him. If you want to drain the swamp, Mr. President, get rid 
of Mr. Pruitt.
  Unfortunately, President Trump has stood by Pruitt, despite obvious 
abuses of the taxpayers' money and trust. Why? Well, he likes what he 
is doing to unwind critical environmental protections on behalf of 
powerful industries.
  The bottom line is simple. President Trump is so beholden to the 
special interests that supported Administrator Pruitt and his extreme, 
anti-green, industry-driven agenda that he is willing to turn a blind 
eye to serious ethical problems. If Big Oil and Big Gas are happy with 
EPA Administrator Pruitt, so, it seems, is President Trump.
  In supporting Administrator Pruitt, President Trump is lowering the 
bar of government ethics and accountability to the floor. What abuse of 
the American people's trust will President Trump not tolerate if 
Administrator Pruitt is allowed to continue in his position despite 
flagrant graft? How can the President, with a straight face, say he 
aims to drain the swamp when he allows a man like Pruitt to stay? How 
much will President Trump let the standards for ethical conduct in his 
administration deteriorate?
  I say to President Trump: The corruption and incompetence of this 
administration has reached a fever pitch.
  President Trump, if you truly mean to drain the swamp--and it doesn't 
seem that you do--you ought to fire Administrator Pruitt immediately. 
Accept his resignation. Let him leave, which alone will clean up 
Washington in a way that Pruitt has not cleaned up our environment.

                          ____________________



