

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S549]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING GEORGE TWIGG III

 Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I have come to the floor to pay 
tribute to George Twigg III, a long-time Granite Stater and former New 
Hampshire State representative, who passed away last month at the age 
of 85. Though he was raised in Massachusetts and retired to Maine, 
George was in many ways a quintessential Granite Stater, with a big 
personality, a great sense of humor, and a lifetime passion for 
politics and public engagement.
  After graduating from Boston University, he served 2 years in the 
U.S. Navy and later worked as a marketing representative for General 
Electric and other Fortune 500 companies. In 1968, he left his 
corporate career behind and moved to Gilmanton, NH, where he became a 
proud jack-of-many-trades, working in real estate sales, auctioneering, 
and appraising. George also worked as a justice of the peace, 
officiating at hundreds of weddings. He once married the same couple 
twice, though he felt obliged to warn them that, if they divorced again 
and later decided to marry for a third time, they would have to find 
someone else to officiate at the wedding.
  Throughout his adult life, George was active in politics and public 
service and gave generously of his time as a volunteer in many 
different capacities. A lifelong Republican, he shared many Granite 
Staters' fiscal conservatism and distaste for taxes. Indeed, in one 
campaign for election to the New Hampshire House of Representatives, he 
crisscrossed his district in a snowplow painted with the message ``No 
Tax Snow Jobs.'' While always true to his conservative convictions, 
George was a practitioner of the New Hampshire way in politics, always 
ready to reach across the aisle in order to advance the best interests 
of our State. In 1974, then-Governor Meldrim Thomson asked him to chair 
New Hampshire's eminent domain commission. He went on to serve 21 years 
on the board of tax and land appeals.
  George was a man of exceptional generosity. In 2014, he sold more 
than 85 acres of scenic land in Gilmanton at a price below fair-market 
value on the condition that it be preserved as open space for future 
generations to enjoy. He was equally generous in giving his time and 
talents to a wide range of volunteer activities. For decades, he 
refereed high school and college basketball games. He served on 
numerous town and county committees and volunteered his considerable 
skills as an auctioneer for countless charity auctions, including 
fundraisers for New Hampshire's public television station.
  The Granite State, and the Gilmanton community in particular, are 
grateful for his many gifts and acts of selfless service. Family and 
friends hope to gather for a memorial service later this year. I will 
be with them in spirit as they celebrate the life of this good and 
generous man.

                          ____________________



