

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 30 (Thursday, February 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1164-S1165]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, and Ms. 
             Stabenow):
       S. 2431. A bill to ensure that certain incidents involving 
     a covered employee that are reported to the title IX 
     coordinator at an eligible institution of higher education 
     have been reviewed by the president of the institution and 
     not less than 1 additional member of the institution's board 
     of trustees, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Lankford, 
             and Mr. Jones):
       S. 2432. A bill to amend the charter of the Future Farmers 
     of America, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 2433. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     deem certain service in the organized military forces of the 
     Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines and the 
     Philippine Scouts to have been active service for purposes of 
     benefits under programs administered by the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER:
       S. 2434. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to reauthorize user fee programs relating to new 
     animal drugs and generic new animal drugs; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASEY:
       S. 2435. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     limit the number of local wage areas allowable within a 
     General Schedule pay locality; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 2436. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to limit the amount of certain qualified conservation 
     contributions; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Smith, 
             Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Brown, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Manchin, Ms. 
             Warren, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             King, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Tester, Mr. Kaine, and Mr. 
             Udall):
       S. 2437. A bill to reauthorize and improve the 21st Century 
     Cures opioid grant program; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Mr. King, and Ms. Smith):
       S. 2438. A bill to conduct or support further comprehensive 
     research for the creation of a universal influenza vaccine; 
     to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 2439. A bill to establish a pilot toll credit 
     marketplace program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Ms. Harris):
       S. 2440. A bill to combat the opioid epidemic by reforming 
     existing laws and providing for the public's safety, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CASEY:
       S. 2441. A bill to amend the Steel Industry American 
     Heritage Area Act of 1996 to repeal the funding limitation; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. STABENOW:
       S. 2442. A bill to establish a Federal tax credit 
     approximation matching program for State new jobs training 
     tax credits, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 2443. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to establish a new career counseling 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 2444. A bill to provide for enhanced energy grid 
     security; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Heinrich, and Ms. 
             Hirono):
       S. 2445. A bill to provide for the modernization of the 
     electric grid, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MERKLEY:
       S. 2446. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for patient protection by establishing safe 
     nurse staffing levels at certain Medicare providers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Ms. Smith):
       S. 2447. A bill to accelerate smart building development, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Cassidy, 
             Mr. Coons, Ms. Collins, and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 2448. A bill to provide for the issuance of a rule to 
     advance next-generation technologies to provide alternatives 
     to hydrofluorocarbons, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 2449. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish the 21st Century Energy Workforce Advisory Board, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Cruz, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 2450. A bill to require the Bureau of the Census to 
     conduct a survey to determine income and poverty levels in 
     the United States in a manner that accounts for the receipt 
     of Federal means-tested benefits, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

[[Page S1165]]

  

                          ____________________



