

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1243]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GRASSLEY:
       S. 2453. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to require hospitals to provide the Secretary with 
     information on the hospital's acquisition costs for 340B 
     drugs and the total revenues received by the hospital for 
     such drugs; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mrs. 
             Gillibrand):
       S. 2454. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require disclosure of payments for settlements of 
     disputes regarding sexual abuse and certain types of 
     harrassment and discrimination, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Toomey, Ms. Klobuchar, 
             and Mr. Graham):
       S. 2455. A bill to encourage United States-Ukraine 
     cybersecurity cooperation and require a report regarding such 
     cooperation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. 
             Capito, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Sullivan, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Cassidy, and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 2456. A bill to reauthorize and expand the Comprehensive 
     Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. 
             Tester):
       S. 2457. A bill to provide a work opportunity tax credit 
     for military spouses and to provide for flexible spending 
     arrangements for childcare services for military families; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Flake, 
             Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Toomey, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. King, Mr. 
             Nelson, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 2458. A bill to authorize the Attorney General to deny 
     the transfer of firearms and explosives and Federal firearms 
     and explosives licenses and permits to known or suspected 
     terrorists; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE:
       S. 2459. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for current year inclusion of net CFC tested 
     income, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. Heller, Ms. Warren, and 
             Mr. Toomey):
       S. 2460. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to require e-prescribing for coverage under part D of the 
     Medicare program of prescription drugs that are controlled 
     substances; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 2461. A bill to allow for judicial review of certain 
     final rules relating to national emission standards for 
     hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
     products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring 
     compliance with the rules by existing sources; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. LEAHY (for himself and Mr. Daines):
       S. 2462. A bill to place restrictions on searches and 
     seizures of electronic devices at the border; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CORKER (for himself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
             Murphy, Mr. Young, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Portman, and Mr. 
             Kaine):
       S. 2463. A bill to establish the United States 
     International Development Finance Corporation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 2464. A bill to improve border security and to provide 
     conditional provision residence to certain long-term 
     residents who entered the United States as children; read the 
     first time.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Wyden, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Peters, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Kaine, Ms. Warren, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Cardin, Ms. Hirono, 
             Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Harris, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Udall, 
             Mr. Booker, Mr. Casey, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. 
             Menendez, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Smith, Mr. Tester, Mr. 
             King, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Warner, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Carper, Mr. Coons, Ms. 
             Heitkamp, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. Jones):
       S.J. Res. 52. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal 
     Communications Commission relating to ``Restoring Internet 
     Freedom''; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.

                          ____________________



