

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S875-S876]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require 
continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual 
Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in 
Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the 
efforts of the United States to partner with European governments, the 
European Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 751, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use of 
amounts in a National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address 
the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for other 
purposes.

[[Page S876]]

  



                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 910, a bill to prohibit 
discrimination against individuals with disabilities who need long-term 
services and supports, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill 
to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-
American Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
service during World War II.


                                S. 1685

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1685, a bill to require 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to establish procedures for considering 
certain credit scores in making a determination whether to purchase a 
residential mortgage, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1764

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1764, a bill 
to extend the principle of federalism to State drug policy, provide 
access to medical marijuana, and enable research into the medicinal 
properties of marijuana.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill to provide 
for wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1885

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1885, a bill to support the 
development of highly automated vehicle safety technologies, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2006

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2006, a bill to require 
breast density reporting to physicians and patients by facilities that 
perform mammograms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2271, a bill to 
reauthorize the Museum and Library Services Act.


                                S. 2286

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2286, a bill to amend the Peace Corps Act to 
provide greater protection and services for Peace Corps volunteers, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2335

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2335, a bill to 
authorize the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
Agriculture to issue permits for recreation services on lands managed 
by Federal agencies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2341

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2341, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the processing of veterans 
benefits by the Department of Veterans Affairs, to limit the authority 
of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to recover overpayments made by 
the Department and other amounts owed by veterans to the United States, 
to improve the due process accorded veterans with respect to such 
recovery, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2345

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2345, a bill to amend 
the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 to provide additional 
resources to State and local prosecutors, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2360

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2360, a bill to provide for the minimum 
size of crews of freight trains, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2370

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2370, a bill to better 
support our early childhood educators and elementary school and 
secondary school teachers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2408

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2408, a bill to 
prohibit the use of funds for an exhibition or parade of military 
forces and hardware for review by the President outside of authorized 
military operations or activities.


                              S. RES. 384

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 384, a resolution 
congratulating the Republic of Korea for hosting the 2018 Winter 
Olympic Games and supporting the alliance between the United States and 
the Republic of Korea.

                          ____________________



