

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H87]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  SHIELD OUR DREAMERS FROM DEPORTATION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, we will all certainly miss the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Tiberi). He is a wonderful Member, and we have 
enjoyed his service to our country.
  Mr. Speaker, last night, a U.S. District Court Judge ordered the 
administration to continue accepting renewal applications for DACA 
recipients. Although this is welcome news, this should not undercut the 
urgency for us here in Congress to pass a permanent legislative 
solution to shield our DREAMers from deportation.
  This week, I, again, had the great honor of meeting another great 
group of bright and hardworking young immigrants from my district whose 
DACA permits will expire in the coming weeks and the coming months. 
Despite their circumstances, despite living in fear and uncertainty 
about what their future holds, each one of these individuals has 
demonstrated great resolve and perseverance to continue the fight.
  They visit Members of Congress, they share their unique stories, they 
provide the facts about their contributions in our communities, and 
they implore us to give them the opportunity to stay in what they 
consider to be their home, the United States.
  Our DREAMers have suffered long enough, Mr. Speaker, and it is time 
that we act and take this issue to the finish line. Human lives are, 
indeed, at stake. Our DREAMers can't live from court decision to court 
decision.
  As Congress has returned this week to begin our second session, I am 
here, once again, to urge us all to bring to the floor a legislative 
solution to give our DREAMers the opportunity to work here, to study 
here in this great country that they know as home. I am confident that 
we have the votes, Republicans and Democrats, for the House and the 
Senate to pass this permanent legislative fix. We can, and we must, 
make this happen now. Let us not wait any longer.


   Celebrating the Groundbreaking for the St. Thomas University Gus 
                       Machado School of Business

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate St. 
Thomas University as it breaks ground on January 24 on the new home for 
the Gus Machado School of Business. This new facility will empower St. 
Thomas University to continue its decades-long commitment to providing 
an excellent, yet affordable, business education to students in south 
Florida.

  The new business school complex will include a state-of-the-art 
trading room, cybersecurity center, an entrepreneurship and innovation 
hub, and many other more exciting spaces. It will also empower the 
business school to offer 48 undergraduate and graduate degrees.
  Most importantly, with its expanded classrooms and robust technology 
infrastructure, this new facility will keep St. Thomas at the forefront 
of business education and will enable the university to continue 
preparing new generations of south Florida business leaders.
  I thank Gus Machado for his generous gift and every member of the St. 
Thomas family who has worked so hard to make this dream a reality.


                Recognizing the Legacy of Parker Thomson

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Parker 
Thomson, a renowned attorney and civic leader from Miami who recently 
passed at the age of 85. Mr. Thomson was known for his work defending 
the First Amendment during his time with his law firm, Paul & Thomson.
  Parker was a leader in advocating for our south Florida environment, 
involved in cases to protect the Everglades and our pristine beaches.
  As the founding chair of the Miami-Dade Performing Arts Center Trust, 
Mr. Thomson helped lead the charge for the creation of the state-of-
the-art Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts. Parker's 
commitment to his community was also visible through his advocacy for 
The Underline project to renovate public spaces in Miami, which is led 
by his daughter, another pillar of our community, new generation, Meg 
Daly.
  Mr. Thomson represented the spirit of hard work and served as a 
mentor to coworkers and friends. Parker Thomson has left a legacy of 
service to his community, one that future generations should seek to 
emulate.

                          ____________________



