

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1452]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Moran, 
             and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 2506. A bill to establish an aviation maintenance 
     workforce development pilot program; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BARRASSO:
       S. 2507. A bill to require short-term limited duration 
     insurance issuers to renew or continue in force such coverage 
     at the option of the enrollees; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Leahy, Ms. Collins, 
             Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. King, and Ms. 
             Hassan):
       S. 2508. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     promote regional economic and infrastructure development, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Daines, 
             Mr. Gardner, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. King, Mr. Manchin, and 
             Mr. Tillis):
       S. 2509. A bill to establish the National Park Restoration 
     Fund, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KENNEDY:
       S. 2510. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     ensure Internet openness, to prohibit blocking of lawful 
     content, applications, services, and non-harmful devices, to 
     prohibit impairment or degradation of lawful Internet 
     traffic, to limit the authority of the Federal Communications 
     Commission and to preempt State law with respect to Internet 
     openness obligations, to provide that broadband Internet 
     access service shall be considered to be an information 
     service, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2511. A bill to require the Under Secretary of Commerce 
     for Oceans and Atmosphere to carry out a program on 
     coordinating the assessment and acquisition by the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of unmanned maritime 
     systems, to make available to the public data collected by 
     the Administration using such systems, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 2512. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     require producers to elect to receive price loss coverage or 
     agriculture risk coverage under that Act or Federal crop 
     insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Ms. Collins, 
             Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Young, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Corker, Mr. Scott, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Grassley, Mr. 
             Graham, and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 2513. A bill to improve school safety and mental health 
     services; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Perdue, 
             Mrs. Ernst, and Mr. Toomey):
       S. 2514. A bill to amend title 35, United States Code, to 
     provide that a patent owner may not assert sovereign immunity 
     as a defense in certain actions before the United States 
     Patent and Trademark Office, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr. Udall, Mr. Barrasso, 
             and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 2515. A bill to amend the Indian Self-Determination and 
     Education Assistance Act to provide further self-governance 
     by Indian Tribes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Bennet, 
             and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 2516. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to conduct a demonstration program to test 
     alternative pain management protocols to limit the use of 
     opioids in emergency departments; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. SASSE (for himself, Mr. Scott, and Mr. Lee):
       S. 2517. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to allow parents of eligible military 
     dependent children to establish Military Education Savings 
     Accounts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. 
             Brown):
       S. 2518. A bill to amend title 11, United States Code, to 
     improve protections for employees and retirees in business 
     bankruptcies; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



