

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S508-S516]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session and resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of R.D. 
James, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Democratic leader is recognized.


                DACA and Other Issues Before the Senate

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, there are now only 13 days remaining 
before the continuing resolution expires on February 8. In that short 
amount of time, we must seek a budget deal, an agreement on healthcare 
legislation, and a bipartisan bill to protect the Dreamers and provide 
for border security. All these items are important. All of them are 
urgent, and we are working hard to get them all done.
  On the issue of immigration, the bipartisan group of moderate 
Senators should continue trying to find a consensus. I think that is an 
excellent idea. The White House, unfortunately, has proven unreliable 
and wildly unpredictable. Within the course of hours, they say 
different things. Every time the President moves forward on one thing, 
his staff pulls him back and undoes what he said. The action should be 
here in the Senate to find a narrow deal on DACA and border security.
  Now, as we have found time and again, when we open up the 
negotiations to discussions of broad immigration reform, there is no 
end to what each party says could be on the table. Republicans want 
vast curtailment of legal immigration. Democrats want to discuss a 
pathway to citizenship for 11 million. That is a recipe for delay when 
we can't afford one. Some on the other side are insisting on expanding 
this beyond the DACA and border security issues. That will just delay. 
That will just make sure that things don't work.
  My Republican colleagues, particularly the leader and his more 
moderate Members, should feel the pressure to get this done, or else 
this administration will start separating families, taking kids out of 
school, servicemembers out of our military, and workers out of our 
companies. They will rip them from the American fabric in which they 
are embedded. What a tragedy that would be.
  So the clock is ticking on Dreamers, and we don't have time for 
extraneous issues that some on the right or the left might want to add 
that have nothing to do with DACA or border security. The clock is also 
ticking for pensioners, for victims of opioid addiction seeking 
treatment, and for our veterans seeking quality healthcare. We have 
other issues: rural infrastructure, childcare, things that Democrats 
want to get done in this deal. We have to get a budget deal and a DACA 
deal that can get 60 votes--13 days before Dreamers get a lot closer to 
deportation; 13 days to help our economy, our communities, and the 
middle class, who have been waiting for over a year for this Congress 
to do something for them, instead of just helping business interests.


                                  FBI

  Mr. President, now I want to focus on one more thing that really 
should disturb every American, and it certainly disturbs me--recent 
events concerning the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
  For decades, the FBI has been our Nation's premier law enforcement 
agency, admired from one end of the country to the other. TV shows and 
movies all talked about how good the FBI was. We know because we trust 
them with protecting our country against many-faced threats: drug 
trafficking, terrorism, white-collar crime.
  In 2016, the FBI--not politically, but just in the way it works to 
keep being vigilant to protect us in our security--was tasked with 
another mission of great importance--investigating Russia's 
interference in our elections.
  As that investigation progressed, it found that members of the Trump 
campaign had concerning associations with the Russians in the lead-up 
to the election. That was pure law enforcement. That wasn't some 
political direction. Now that that investigation led by Special Counsel 
Mueller has resulted in two guilty pleas and two more indictments of 
Trump campaign officials, there seems to be a fervor on the other side 
to discredit what the special counsel's investigation has already 
revealed. That should give serious pause to Democrats, Republicans, and 
all

[[Page S509]]

Americans. A foreign power, probably the one that is most in our face, 
Russia, is interfering in our elections. I don't care if it is 
Democratic elections, Republican elections, national elections, or 
local elections. When a foreign power interferes in our elections, that 
gnaws at the wellspring of our democracy. All of us should be giving 
the FBI space and encouragement to finish their investigation without 
delay or interference.
  Instead, ever since Special Counsel Mueller was appointed, too many 
Republicans and too many in the rightwing media have been desperate to 
distract the Nation from his investigation.
  First they waged an aggressive and coordinated--I would say 
shameful--attack on the integrity of the special counsel. I was in the 
gym this morning. I spoke to one of my senior Republican colleagues, 
who said he knew Mueller, and he knew what a fine man he was. He is a 
model public servant. He spent decades earning the trust and reverence 
of both parties. He was known as somebody who was a registered 
Republican through my years in Washington. He wasn't regarded as a 
partisan figure, somebody who would have vendettas, political or 
otherwise--no. It got so out of hand--I couldn't believe this--that a 
Republican Congressman suggested Special Counsel Mueller's 
investigation was a ``coup,'' on the floor of the House. That 
Congressman ought to go back and read his Constitution and read his 
history books. The rule of law is not a coup. I would say to that 
Republican Member of Congress: No person, not even the President, is 
above the law.
  The political smear campaign has now bled into a spiraling and 
delusional attack on the FBI itself. The Republican majority on the 
House Intelligence Committee has, according to Representative Schiff, 
manufactured a secret memo of partisan talking points, full of innuendo 
and glaring omissions, intended to suggest widespread corruption at the 
Department of Justice and the FBI. They are very, very serious 
allegations, if they had any truth to them or backing. Adding to the 
impropriety, some of those same Republicans are now trying to release 
this slanderous memo--and that is what it is, a slanderous memo--to the 
public.
  Since this investigation has started, our Nation has had to endure 
conspiracy after conspiracy from Republican Congressmen and Senators 
and, of course, from the rightwing press, which acts in total cahoots. 
There are conspiracies about ``deep state'' leaks and unmasking 
requests, phone taps at Trump Tower, Uranium One, who paid for the so-
called Steele dossier, and today it is this memo. On and on and on, 
they are conspiracy theories with virtually no fact--paranoia, 
delusion. Why? Are they afraid of the truth of the Mueller 
investigation? It seems so.
  Meanwhile, Republican Members of this body, I am ashamed to say, 
picked up on casual texts sent between FBI agents to peddle the 
nonsense that there is a ``secret society'' at the Department of 
Justice, without a shred of evidence. I saw one of those--the Senator 
who was propagating this, this morning on television. It looked crazy. 
It looked delusional. It looked paranoid. What began as an attempt to 
discredit the investigator has now devolved into delusional, self-
serving paranoia.
  The Republican Party, which used to hold itself up as a law and order 
party, seems intent on destroying the credibility of our premier law 
and order agency and the hard-working men and women who serve there--
all to assist a President who cares and knows very little about the 
boundaries of rule of law.
  Imagine, the FBI, which for decades the Republican Party upheld--I 
remember lots of political debates here--now they are discrediting them 
with virtually no basis in fact. Guess who has joined the Republican 
campaign to attack the FBI. The Republican campaign to attack the FBI 
has been joined by the same forces that interfered in the 2016 
election--Wikileaks, Julian Assange, and Russia.
  Just a few years ago, those things were attacked by our Republican 
friends, particularly the hard right. Now they are joining them, 
wittingly or unwittingly. Can you imagine the outrage on the right if 
President Obama's message was being spread by Wikileaks, Julian 
Assange, or Kremlin sources?
  Within hours of GOP lawmakers and FOX News calling for the release of 
the Nunes memo, Russian-linked bots began pushing the narrative using 
the hashtag ``releasethememo''--Russian bots, hashtag 
``releasethememo.'' Just a few hours after some of our Republican 
friends started this push, use of the hashtag spiked and was used 100 
times more than any other hashtag by Kremlin-linked accounts.
  We are witnessing an effort by the Russian Government to intervene 
and influence our democratic processes in real time. Every single 
American should be concerned by this, particularly when their elected 
officials are willing to work--wittingly or unwittingly--alongside 
Russia to manipulate our opinion. Some of our Republican colleagues--
sadly, unfortunately, wittingly or unwittingly--are acting as allies of 
Russia's disinformation campaign. Can you imagine? Can you imagine? It 
is hard to make this stuff up. It seems like we make this stuff up, but 
it is real--hard-right Republicans and the Russians trying to discredit 
our premier law enforcement agency.
  This country erected institutions like the FBI and the Department of 
Justice to defend the vital interests of the Nation without deference 
to political parties. Much like the Federal judiciary, they act as an 
essential check on political power--whosever power it is--a defense 
against creeping authoritarianism.
  What the FBI is investigating right now is about shielding our 
democracy from the disinformation campaigns of foreign adversaries. 
Russia wants nothing more than to undermine our democracy by eroding 
people's faith in its institutions, for without resilient democratic 
institutions, there can be no democracy.
  Make no mistake about it. Today Russia may be doing the same thing 
that a lot of our Republican colleagues are. Tomorrow they may be 
attacking our Republican colleagues. The Russians have no interests 
other than hurting America. So the Republican attacks on the 
credibility of the FBI and the Department of Justice are playing right 
into Putin's hands. They constitute an attack on democracy itself.
  There has to be a line. There has to be a line where the interests of 
your political party stop, because to go any further would be to 
diminish our country. I say that to my colleagues here and in the House 
who have participated in this besmirching unfairly, paranoically, self-
interestedly of the FBI. Peddling delusions of secret societies, ``deep 
state'' leaks, and coup d'etats cross the line of what anyone of any 
party should do. It has to stop.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, we have finally ended this government 
shutdown that was produced and directed by the Democrats in the Senate.
  The reason Democrats decided to take this extreme step and shut down 
the government was because of the narrow issue of illegal immigration. 
They shut down services for citizens of the United States to provide 
services for people who are not citizens of the United States, and the 
Democrats have admitted it was all about this issue of illegal 
immigration.
  There may have been another reason, as well, that Democrats wanted to 
shut down the government, and that was so they could change the subject 
being debated by people, talked about by friends, noticed by Americans, 
and making the headlines. That subject, of course, is the competence 
and optimism in the American economy--by workers, by people who are 
paying taxes, by people who realize how the Republican tax relief 
legislation is going to help improve their lives personally.
  I think the success of the Republican tax relief bill scares a lot of 
Democrats. It scares them because every one of them voted against it. 
They didn't think it was a good idea to let people keep more of their 
hard-earned money. The Democrats thought it was a better idea for 
possibly the government to keep that money and use it and spend it in 
ways many people--certainly in Wyoming--feel is not a good use of that 
money. Families know how to get more value out of their dollars than 
the government ever will. Democrats voted

[[Page S510]]

against it--the tax cuts that would actually create jobs all across the 
country, and we have seen that job creation occurring. They voted 
against the tax relief that is going to allow money to be brought back 
to America so investments are made in America.
  It was so interesting to listen to Nancy Pelosi--the former Speaker 
of the House and now the minority leader in the House--refer to what we 
were doing in the Senate and in the House as Armageddon. She said it 
was the end of the world. That is what she said.
  The American people, hard-working people, don't believe that at all. 
They believe it is good for them personally. It turns out that people 
who work at more than 200 companies in this country have already gotten 
a raise or some kind of a cash benefit or additional contribution to 
their retirement because of the tax law. That is why all those 
companies said they did it. Over 2 million people have obtained this 
benefit of the tax relief law, and more are going to benefit in the 
years ahead. Millions of Americans are going to start seeing more take-
home pay in their paychecks next month. That is because of this tax 
relief law the Democrats--every one of them--opposed. We are seeing it 
not just with American families; we are seeing it with investments 
coming in from abroad.
  This law has totally changed how we tax the money companies earn that 
sell things to people overseas. This chart goes through it. It used to 
be that when U.S. companies made money somewhere else; they paid taxes 
there. If they wanted to bring it back home, they had to pay taxes 
again, a double taxation. Very few countries do that, but the United 
States was one of them--double taxation. Businesses then had to make a 
decision, had to make a choice. It could bring money back home, pay 
taxes a second time, or keep the money overseas, invest it there, and 
not have to pay that second tax. A lot of companies, looking at the tax 
laws the United States had on the books previously, decided it was too 
much of a penalty to bring that money back home and invest it in the 
American economy. There was something like $2.8 trillion in American 
business that American businesses had been holding in other countries.
  We actually had a tax code that worked to the advantage of foreign 
countries, not to the advantage of the United States. It was locking 
money out, keeping it overseas, keeping it from helping American 
workers at home. That is a very backward way to look at how the Tax 
Code should work. We changed the law when Republicans voted to change 
the tax law, give taxpayers relief. Now the money gets taxed once, not 
twice. It changed the system in America the way most countries around 
the world do it. That means businesses no longer have this warped 
incentive to keep their money out of the United States. It makes it 
much easier for that money to come back from overseas to the United 
States. It is good for America. It is what an America first economy 
looks like. It gets rid of this crazy Tax Code that we had, giving 
other countries an advantage--not anymore.
  The second thing this tax relief law has done is actually cut taxes. 
When American businesses had to pay this second tax, the rates were 
very high--one of the highest in the world. It was adding insult to 
injury. Other countries have actually been cutting taxes for years--not 
the United States, not on our own companies in the United States. Here 
at home, we had one of the highest and most punitive taxes in the 
world. There wasn't a major country in the world where businesses paid 
as high a tax as we did in the United States. Washington was taxing 
companies about 35 percent if they tried to bring home some of the 
profits from overseas. Because of the tax law we passed and President 
Trump has signed, this rate has now dropped to 21 percent--from 35 
percent to 21 percent.
  Now our tax rates are actually below the average of other countries 
around the world. That puts American businesses at a significantly 
stronger position to compete around the world. It puts us at a 
competitive advantage. We got rid of the double taxation system--
Republicans did--when we passed this law, and we cut tax rates 
significantly as well.
  When you put these two things together--cutting the rates, making it 
easier to bring money back to the United States, eliminating this 
double taxation--it is a big help to American workers, to the men and 
women who work in America, as well as the businesses that employ those 
people. Businesses are much more likely now to invest in America, put 
their money back home, in American workers, in the American economy. We 
are seeing it already.

  The tech company Apple recently announced it is increasing 
investments in U.S. operations. They said their total contribution to 
the American economy over the next 5 years will be $350 billion. They 
are planning to bring home as much as $250 billion in money that right 
now is parked overseas. They are talking about employing 20,000 more 
workers, hiring 20,000 more people. They have been letting that money 
sit overseas because of this system that locked the money out. Now, 
with the new tax law, it is going to be much easier to bring this money 
home and invest it in America.
  It is not just Apple. We are seeing it with Fiat Chrysler, with 
Boeing, with AT&T, and with others. They are increasing investment in 
the United States and in the workers at home, and it is all because of 
the tax law the Republicans voted for, and every one of the Democrats 
voted against. It is no surprise that Democrats may have wanted to shut 
down the government to knock off the front page of the paper the 
headlines of the success of the tax law and instead see reports about 
the Democrats shutting down the government.
  It is interesting. There has been so much economic activity after 
this changed that other countries are beginning to become nervous. 
Other countries used to know they had the upper hand over the United 
States when it came to investments in the economy, and they figured the 
United States would never get its act together enough to change the tax 
laws to make us the competitive, thriving economy we know we can be. 
These countries knew the U.S. tax law was working in their favor--not 
anymore.
  Countries like China, the United Kingdom, and Japan are considering 
changing their own taxes in response to what we have done. We are 
leading the way. They are trying to play catchup with their economy. In 
Australia, as a matter of fact, they expect the loss of significant 
amounts of economic activity and growth to the United States because of 
the new tax law. Other countries are running scared because President 
Trump and Republicans in Congress are doing exactly what we promised 
the American people we would do. We are keeping our promises. We are 
putting American workers first. Tax relief is working. It is helping 
hard-working American families. It is creating economic growth. It is 
giving America the competitive edge we deserve because of the work we 
do, and we haven't had it in a long period of time.
  Democrats said it would never happen, during the debate, on the tax 
law. First, they did everything they could to make sure we wouldn't get 
it passed--slowed it down, voted against it, talked against it. They 
were wrong, and now they know they were wrong. They have seen the money 
come back. They have seen the growth in the economy. They have seen the 
number of jobs created. They have seen the growth in wages. They are 
seeing people keeping more of their hard-earned dollars. They see 
people happier. They see a level of confidence and optimism that wasn't 
there in a previous administration.
  The Democrats seem to be trying to change the subject by putting up a 
smokescreen--shutting down the government to avoid and try to deflect 
from the success the Republicans have allowed the American people to 
recognize in themselves because the tax laws have changed, and the 
American people will benefit from it for years to come.
  It is time for the Democrats to give up the games, come to the table, 
join Republicans, and do what we know we need to do, which is put the 
American workers first. It is time for the Democrats to join the 
Republicans and work on behalf of all the American people who have sent 
all of us here in the first place, and we are seeing it now with the 
tax law and the tax relief and the tax cuts that are benefiting people 
all across this country.

[[Page S511]]

  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sullivan). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                             Foreign Policy

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I come to the floor to reflect on the 
troubling foreign policy 1 year into President Donald Trump's 
administration.
  A recent poll out from Gallup showed a dramatic reduction in global 
public opinion toward the United States. Confidence in the United 
States by the global community has plummeted to 30 percent under 
President Trump. A low public opinion of our great country, among other 
nations, is not a good thing, and it is not something to celebrate. In 
fact, it makes the world less safe for America and Americans. It limits 
our economic opportunities, and it undermines our ability to promote 
our values of portraying President Reagan's vision of a city on a hill. 
In just 1 year, the Trump administration has betrayed America's values, 
abandoned our allies, and appeased our enemies.
  America's alliances, for example, with the United Nations and the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization keep our country safe and prosperous 
while they also build a more secure world, but President Trump has 
repeatedly questioned the worthiness of both organizations and has 
attacked leading members of each body--almost always key American 
allies.
  These concerns were made much worse when, early in the 
administration, Secretary Tillerson said that America's interests would 
no longer be dictated by our values. It was almost unfathomable to hear 
the Nation's top diplomat speak in such a narrow, myopic way. Also, the 
games the administration has played with the mission statements of the 
State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development have 
been clear attempts to depart from the values that define who we are--
support for democracy, human rights, transparency, and good governance.
  President Trump has praised strongmen leaders in Russia, China, 
Turkey, Egypt, and the Philippines even as they imprison, torture, or 
kill their own citizens. If support for world leaders who lack almost 
all of our values is not bad enough, President Trump's attacks on some 
of America's closest friends have undermined the credibility of 
America's word and America's commitment to its values. Launching verbal 
broadsides against the United Kingdom, Australia, and South Korea--the 
latter during the ongoing standoff with North Korea--are deeply 
regrettable and completely counterproductive.
  Speaking of verbal mistakes, you cannot conduct high stakes diplomacy 
through the use of Twitter. We should never normalize such conduct by a 
President of the United States. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson 
conceded last week that he, essentially, learns about the President's 
foreign policy statements--or even of his positions--because his staff 
at Foggy Bottom prints off the President's tweets for him. That should 
give everyone a moment for pause.
  Besides the nuclear crisis with North Korea, nowhere have the 
President's statements been more damaging than in the tenuous 
relationship between Washington and Moscow. Frankly, the President's 
words and actions send a clear signal to Mr. Putin that he can continue 
to attack democratic institutions and values with impunity. Each time 
Mr. Putin denies to Mr. Trump that the Kremlin was involved in 
attempting to influence the 2016 election--a bald-faced lie--the 
American President races to say that he believes him. Never before in 
history has such a clear threat to our national security been so 
clearly ignored by a President of the United States.
  Last week, I released a report through the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee that documented Mr. Putin's pattern of 20 years of attacks 
against democratic institutions in Europe. In order to best understand 
what he did here in the United States in 2016--a matter still under 
investigation--as well as to protect ourselves in 2018, 2020, and 
beyond, we need to understand the big picture and respond accordingly. 
We will never be fully protected or have a robust enough response with 
the President's repeated public appeasement of Mr. Putin.
  We have seen again this week how that has been playing out in a 
matter that is being debated in Congress. The Russian Government 
continues to interfere in our political debates here in the United 
States. There are reports that Russian internet bots and trolls are 
working to support Congressman Nunes's efforts to produce and release a 
Republican staff report on the investigation into Russia's interference 
in our 2016 elections. We know that Russian bots and trolls are 
vigorously promoting these attacks and corroding our political 
institutions and norms of behavior, seeking to paralyze our government 
and undermine our democracy. This sort of behavior carries a possible 
grave risk to our democratic system and our very way of life.
  I am not surprised to find that Russian services are attacking us, as 
a recent report that we released made it clear that it was part of 
their strategy, but I do hope that all of us--Democrats and 
Republicans--will stand up for our democratic institutions and speak 
out against Russia's interference in our political system.
  The President refers to his foreign policy strategy as ``America 
first.'' ``America first'' is a risky and chaotic proposition and will, 
certainly, lead to America alone. The Muslim ban, hastily handed down 
not 1 week into his administration, was the early defining moment of 
President Trump's tenure--the clearest sign yet he would actively work 
to denigrate our values and isolate us from the rest of the world.
  President Trump's rhetoric has made a multifaceted conflict with 
China more likely at a time when we need to work with the Chinese on 
stronger diplomatic ties between our nations to improve regional 
stability in East Asia.
  The President's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris 
climate agreement--an accord that every nation on Earth is a member of 
and which the majority of the President's senior advisers recommended 
against--is a gross abdication of American leadership and a narrow-
minded rejection of basic science and fact.
  I and other Members of this body are engaged in an attempt to prevent 
the President from withdrawing without reason from another major 
international agreement--the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, 
otherwise known as the Iran nuclear deal. The President has jeopardized 
the agreement by not certifying Iran's compliance and without his 
producing any evidence that Iran is in violation of the agreement. He 
has now made a number of aggressive demands of Congress and of our 
European allies, once again demonstrating that he is no negotiator.
  America first, supposedly, but as communities in Maryland and across 
the country struggle with a nationwide epidemic of opioids, heroin, and 
fentanyl overdoses, President Trump's budget has proposed a 27-percent 
reduction in America's global counternarcotics efforts, which will 
directly weaken our ability to work with international partners to stem 
the illegal flow of drugs that are entering our country.
  The President sought to slash $1 billion from America's global 
efforts to fight HIV/AIDS in Africa, Asia, and elsewhere. Thanks to 
bipartisan American leadership, we have made enormous strides against 
this disease. We should not turn back from that progress. This kind of 
fear, insecurity, and even xenophobia are damaging our reputation 
abroad and corroding our core identity as Americans here at home.
  The President has doubled down on the disastrous wall rhetoric and 
continues to belittle Mexico, one of our closest friends and partners 
in the world. Even the White House Chief of Staff's attempt to clean up 
the President's wall position ended embarrassingly for him.
  President Trump's campaign to undermine American values resulted in 
slashing refugee resettlement into the United States, while asking 
other countries to do more. His policies damage our moral leadership, 
condone other countries' rejection of refugees on their borders, and 
strengthen the

[[Page S512]]

hand of those who wish to do us harm through recruitment and 
radicalization. U.S. leadership on this issue is key to our 
counterterrorism strategy.
  President Ronald Reagan admitted 140,000 refugees in just 1 year of 
his Presidency. By contrast, at a time of extraordinary international 
need--far greater than when President Reagan was in office--President 
Trump capped refugee resettlement at 45,000 this fiscal year. Since he 
announced that policy, refugee admissions in this country have fallen 
to a level unseen in modern history. At the current rate, the United 
States may grant entry to fewer than 20,000 refugees--the lowest number 
since the program was established in 1980. The President's stealth 
attack on refugee resettlement is a war on a program that has embodied 
America's compassion and global leadership.
  Much attention has been drawn to the despicable uncertainty that 
President Trump has injected into the lives of hundreds of thousands of 
Dreamers, preparing to deport young people who are essentially American 
citizens to countries they have never known. But equally as troubling 
is the President's denial of temporary protected status, or TPS, for 
hundreds of thousands of people from Haiti and El Salvador. Many more 
from Honduras and Syria sit in the President's crosshairs. These people 
have lived in our country, sometimes for decades, contribute to our 
economy, and many have American citizen children. Sending them back to 
their home nations at this time--countries that are already 
destabilized to various degrees--will exacerbate local and regional 
problems.
  I am proud of the legislation I have written with Senators Feinstein 
and Van Hollen that is supported by numerous colleagues to create a 
legal pathway to residency for TPS recipients who only seek a better 
life for themselves and their families, enriching our country and all 
that it stands for in the process.
  The U.S. military is the finest in the world, but increasingly, 
President Trump wants our men and women in uniform to do what should be 
the responsibility of our diplomatic and development corps--our forces 
for peace. And it is not just a slow and steady transfer of 
responsibilities from Foggy Bottom to the Pentagon; President Trump has 
failed to fill critical national security jobs and is gutting our 
development and diplomatic institutions.
  It infuriates me when the President or his team dares to accuse the 
Senate of failing to do its constitutional responsibilities regarding 
nominations. Of 163 Senate-confirmed positions across the State 
Department and USAID, the administration does not have nominees for 72 
of those jobs--just under 50 percent--1 year into office of this 
administration.
  The administration has proposed an illogical and ideological cut of 
over 30 percent to the State Department and USAID budgets, attempting 
to disembowel critical national security tools. Secretary Tillerson has 
maintained an unexplained hiring freeze at the Department and Agency. 
Diplomats are leaving the government in large numbers, and his attempt 
to reorganize the Department many view as a solution in search of a 
problem. The President has little interest in how diplomacy advances 
our interests, promotes our values, and makes us safer and more 
prosperous.
  To make matters worse, the President and his family continue to 
conduct themselves in a manner that promotes their business interests, 
making our foreign policy more difficult. In his dealings with China 
alone, the writing is on the wall. Candidate Trump said that on day one 
of his Presidency, he would declare China a currency manipulator. 
American businesses are still waiting. Did he sacrifice the American 
worker in order to appease the Chinese banker who paid him rent at 
Trump Tower? Or perhaps it was so he could secure those long sought 
after business trademarks with China--38 in all.
  The American people should not lose sight of the fact that the 
President has refused to divest himself from the Trump Organization, 
ignoring decades of ethical norms and precedent. The President of the 
United States is engaged in foreign policy while maintaining 
unprecedented business interests in about 20 countries. Today, the 
President has a financial stake in real estate projects in India, 
Indonesia, the Philippines, and elsewhere--developments that require 
approval and intervention from governments, financing from banks, and 
cooperation from local partners. He continues to earn royalties from 
properties located throughout the world, from Panama to the United Arab 
Emirates.
  Reaping a financial profit while serving as President begs the 
question of whether he is working in his own best interest or the 
Nation's best interest--exactly why the Constitution's emoluments 
clause exists and of which I believe he is in violation. President 
Trump could easily rectify this by cutting his financial ties and 
leaving no doubt that his first and foremost priority is serving the 
Nation's interests.
  In closing, let me say that American foreign policy led by our 
values, support for our allies, and a desire to make the world a better 
place, keeps us safe at home and advances our country's prosperity and 
security. President Trump has not put the strategies in place to deal 
with the complicated national security crises facing our country. 
Instead, he has made international security challenges more difficult 
to solve, including the crisis with Iran, the nuclear weapons dilemma 
with North Korea, and the Kremlin activities sowing discord in our 
country and throughout the world. President Trump has been unwilling to 
engage in the delicate diplomacy and tough national security decisions 
that are required to keep this country safe and maintain our global 
leadership.
  The role of Congress in shaping and advancing U.S. foreign policy has 
never been more important, and I will continue to advance legislation, 
conduct oversight, and speak out about these important issues in the 
name of the American people and the values and norms that define us and 
our place in this complicated world. I am proud that there are many 
Members on both sides of the aisle who share these concerns, and we 
will work together for America's national security interests.
  With that, Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Fischer). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                           Senate Priorities

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, now that the government is up and 
running again, we need to look ahead at what our legislative priorities 
should be. I can't speak for everybody, but I can speak for myself. My 
priorities are threefold.
  First, we need to expedite disaster relief. In December, the House 
passed an $81 billion disaster relief bill designed to address the 
natural disasters caused by Hurricane Irma, Hurricane Harvey, as well 
as the wildfires out West. That has been sitting in the Senate since 
December. We need to act and act with dispatch.
  Everybody remembers Hurricane Harvey--we certainly do in Texas--which 
pummeled us last August. It was last August; this is February. Most of 
the media attention in the months since has focused on the city of 
Houston, which quite literally was torn apart. This was the most 
intense rain event in American history--more than 50 inches of rain 
fell in 5 days.
  Other areas beyond Houston fared worse--I am thinking of cities like 
Rockport and Port Author on the Texas coast. I am thinking of cities 
like Victoria and Beaumont. More than 28,000 square miles were flooded. 
Crops rotted, livestock died, and almost 6 months later people are 
still piecing together their lives.
  In addition to Hurricane Harvey, as I said, there was Hurricane Irma 
and Hurricane Maria, and there were the wildfires that burned across 
California that later resulted in mudslides after the rains fell. I 
know the Federal Government is not the only entity charged with 
ensuring help gets to these places, but it certainly has an important 
part to play.
  This morning, I attended the U.S. Conference of Mayors and saw a 
number of my mayors from Texas who were part of the success or at least 
the management of this natural disaster in

[[Page S513]]

Texas. They have done their part. The State has done its part. It is 
time for the Federal Government to step up, and it is time for the 
Senate to pass this supplemental bill that was passed by the House in 
December.
  The second priority I have, personally, is lifting the spending caps 
that impair our national defense, particularly our men and women in 
uniform. In my remarks yesterday, I said this is a problem set in 
motion by the Budget Control Act of 2011. While well-intentioned--for a 
while it did hold down discretionary spending and reduced our deficits 
and our debt--its implementation has not stemmed our national debt, but 
it has tied the hands of our military. This is an important lesson. It 
is not defense spending, it is not tax cuts, it is not discretionary 
spending; it is the mandatory spending in our entitlement programs 
which continue to run up deficits and debt and which threaten us and 
our financial future, to be sure.
  In the meantime, our military faces readiness challenges across the 
globe. We simply must listen to people like Defense Secretary Jim 
Mattis. We should lift the caps, end sequester so our military no 
longer suffers and so our national security is on safer ground.
  The third on my immediate to-do list is working with a bipartisan 
group of legislators as well as President Trump on the issue of the 
DACA recipients. As everybody who has been paying much attention in 
recent days knows, this is a group of about 690,000 young adults who 
came into the country as children because their parents brought them in 
illegally, in noncompliance with our immigration laws.
  In the United States, we don't hold children responsible for the 
mistakes of their parents, nor should we punish these young adults who 
have now grown up because their parents broke our immigration laws. We 
know they face an uncertain future, and much of the responsibility for 
our porous borders should be borne by Congress--not only the present 
Congress, but past Congresses--for basically turning our heads the 
other way while people continued to immigrate illegally into the United 
States.

  We are going to need to improve our infrastructure, personnel, and 
technology to make sure we don't experience that sort of rush of 
illegal immigration in the future, which is why some of our Democratic 
colleagues like to say that we need to protect DACA recipients, which 
we are willing to do. But we want to make sure there is not a 
repetition of this in 3 years or 5 years hence. So there are important 
measures we need to combine with that, and the President has told us 
that he is going to insist upon--and he is correct in doing so--a 
robust border security component, as well as ending chain migration and 
the diversity lottery visas. From the news I saw this morning, it 
sounds like the President made some statement about the first piece of 
that puzzle last night. We are expecting to hear more from the White 
House on how they expect Congress to respond and what the President 
would find acceptable here in the next few days.
  This bill can't become law without the President's signature. So the 
President's views are not irrelevant, but we are the ones who have the 
primary responsibility to resolve these complicated issues. Getting 60 
votes is not the only thing we are aiming for. Certainly, that is the 
hurdle we have in the Senate, but it would be a futile act if the 
President wouldn't sign it or if it wouldn't pass the House of 
Representatives. So we have our work cut out for us, and I know the 
American people will not support it unless it is a serious and well-
thought-out proposal. The blowback will be strong, and we will face a 
harsh reprisal if we don't take into account the opinions and the views 
of our constituents back home, which I intend to do.
  Beyond these short-term actions, which we need to move on as soon as 
possible, there are other priorities I would like to mention as well. 
Infrastructure is something everybody likes to talk about, until you 
ask the question: How are we going to pay for it?
  Recently, I introduced a bipartisan bill with Senator Warner from 
Virginia that would expand an infrastructure financing authority 
already in use by many States and local governments across the United 
States. This legislation is called the BUILD Act, which would raise the 
caps on a specific category of what are known as private activity 
bonds, giving additional access to tax-exempt bond authority for the 
purpose of constructing highway projects.
  I was with a number of Texas mayors earlier this morning, and they 
told me they see that as a positive development, something they can use 
in their cities. They appreciate that during the tax reform debate we 
maintained the tax-exempt status of municipal bonds used for those 
kinds of purposes.
  In the near future, I intend to introduce a few other legislative 
initiatives to help rehabilitate our Nation's infrastructure. I come 
from a State that is growing because we are creating so many jobs, and 
that is putting a strain on our existing infrastructure. So for the 
interest of public safety and the environment, as well as our economy, 
we need to repair and build out our infrastructure. I know the White 
House has some plans in this area as well, and we look forward to 
hearing more about them and working with the administration when it 
comes to infrastructure.
  Thinking about other areas that we could work on in a bipartisan 
fashion, I firmly believe it is important for us to look at success 
stories in the States, and then, once these laboratories of democracy 
have done things that actually result in positive things, we can then 
learn from them and scale them up at the Federal level.
  That is one reason I am very interested in taking the lessons we 
learned in Texas and other States on prison reform and offering a 
better, more enlightened, and sensible path to reentry for people who 
made mistakes and ended up in our jails and prisons. Not everybody is 
going to take advantage of it. In my visits in Texas prisons, I know 
illiteracy is rampant. Some people have drug or alcohol problems that 
need to be addressed. Some people just need to learn basic job skills 
if we expect for them to succeed once they get out of prison. We have 
used various incentives for low-risk offenders in Texas to provide them 
opportunities to address each of those concerns, and it has been quite 
successful. Not only have fewer people recommitted crimes and ended up 
back in prison, but our communities have become safer as a result, and 
taxpayers have had to build fewer prisons in the process.
  I have been working in the Senate on a bipartisan way with my 
colleague from Rhode Island, Senator Whitehouse, and my colleague from 
Utah, Senator Lee. I know this issue has gotten some real traction 
thanks to President Trump and the roundtable he hosted at the White 
House earlier this month.
  More than 11 million people go to jail each year in the United 
States, and there are currently 2.3 million people under confinement. 
This is a matter of great public concern, but to me the No. 1 concern 
is public safety. If we can keep the public safer, if we can save 
taxpayer dollars, and if we can help people who are willing to accept 
the opportunity to turn their lives around and become productive 
members of our society, it seems to me that we ought to be doing that.
  I look forward to hearing more--perhaps even from the President 
during the State of the Union Address on Tuesday night, if he chooses 
to mention his interest in that topic, which I know he is interested 
in.
  Finally, we have to keep filling our judicial vacancies. Last year, 
we were able to put two Texans on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, 
but more district judges have come through the pipeline this year. One 
of the judges we confirmed earlier this month is David Counts from 
Midland, TX. He will be serving in the Western District of Texas. Just 
this week, the President announced his intention to nominate another 
judge for the Western District of Texas, Alan Albright, as well as Cam 
Barker, Jeremy Kernodle, and Michael Truncale for the Eastern District 
of Texas.
  We are a big State. So we have a lot of judicial vacancies, and 
Senator Cruz and I are working hard, together with the White House, to 
make recommendations to President Trump for nomination. They go through 
a very extensive vetting process. Senator Cruz and I have created 
something we call the Federal Judicial Evaluation Committee, which is a 
group of our

[[Page S514]]

most experienced practitioners in the State, on a bipartisan basis, to 
evaluate the people who apply for these important life-tenured 
positions.
  I want to compliment the President for his sterling picks for the 
judiciary, certainly so far, starting with the Supreme Court of the 
United States. But at the intermediate appellate courts, like the Fifth 
Circuit and these district courts, these are the people who do the day-
in and day-out work of the judiciary to make sure that all Americans 
have access to justice and the opportunity for a fair hearing before an 
impartial judge. That is one of the most important things the Federal 
Government provides through our judicial branch: ``Equal justice under 
law,'' as the words above the Supreme Court building say.


                        Tribute to Emily Kirlin

  Madam President, I wish to recognize and sincerely thank a member of 
my staff, Emily Kirlin, for her decade of public service here in the 
Senate. Everybody knows Emily in the Senate because of her bubbly 
personality, and she is always looking to find ways to help Senators be 
more successful and to recognize their tremendous contributions to this 
body.
  Emily is originally from Crossville, TN, and we will not hold that 
against her. She is not a Texan, but many people from Tennessee 
eventually came to Texas, as I tell a couple of my Tennessee 
colleagues, most of them one step ahead of a great spouse or one step 
ahead of the law. Those are the Tennesseans who made their way to Texas 
at the time of our founding. Things have gotten better, by the way, but 
that is sort of an inside joke between Tennesseans and Texans.
  Emily has been director of Member services in my whip office and is 
the longest serving member of our operation. Before working in her 
current capacity, she served under my predecessor, Senator Jon Kyl, and 
before that for my colleague, Senator Alexander.
  Everyone who has had the privilege of meeting Emily knows that she is 
one of a kind. Her smile lights up rooms, and her personality is 
contagious. Everyone loves being around her. But she also works 
incredibly hard. Some nights she is here until 1 in the morning and 
goes home and works even harder alongside her husband Michael. 
Together, they have two small children, Brock and Madge, who, I am 
sure, require a lot of love and attention.
  So we are sad to see Emily go, but we wish her nothing but the best 
and want to express our sincere gratitude for her service to the 
Senate. We know her future will be bright in whatever path she decides 
to take.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. PETERS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                           Work of the Senate

  Mr. PETERS. Madam President, I believe every campaign for elective 
office in this great Nation is essentially a months-long job interview 
with the voters or, perhaps more accurately, it is thousands and 
thousands of individual interviews. Like any employer, the voters have 
expectations for us once we have been hired to do this job.
  I will never forget I work for the people of Michigan, and I feel 
very fortunate to have earned the opportunity to serve them. When I ran 
for the U.S. Senate, I told Michiganders I would be a pragmatic 
problem-solver and stand by that promise each and every day. We were 
all sent here to be problem-solvers, especially the hard problems. 
Making the effort to participate in our democracy is fundamentally 
optimistic. Voters want us to make their lives and our Nation better. 
Every Senator elected to this body carries the hopes, the dreams, and 
the expectations of the people who live in their State.
  While we should never lose sight of our Nation's hopes and dreams, 
today I wish to focus on expectations. Americans expect us to work 
together. They expect us to talk to each other. They expect us to 
negotiate and find common ground where we disagree. They expect us to 
help our fellow Americans after disasters. They expect us to respond to 
crises like the opioid epidemic and dangerously underfunded pensions 
that jeopardize their retirement security. They expect us to keep our 
borders secure and enact reasonable human immigration policies that 
keep our Nation competitive and boost economic growth, and they expect 
us to responsibly fund the Federal Government.
  None of us should be proud of the recent government shutdown. There 
is no such thing as a good government shutdown. I am nevertheless 
hopeful that lessons can be learned from last weekend and a better path 
forward can be found. I think the coming weeks and months are of vital 
importance to the future of the U.S. Senate as a meaningful, functional 
institution.
  Let's be honest with ourselves and with the American people. In the 
last few years, we have not been functional. We have blown deadline 
after deadline. It took us almost 4 months past the funding deadline to 
tackle the easiest problem: reauthorizing the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, a program that provides healthcare to millions of 
Americans children, while saving taxpayers money.
  As I stand here, healthcare for over 600,000 Michiganders--including 
over 12,000 Michigan veterans--remains at risk because we have blown 
through deadline after deadline to fund community health centers, a 
program that provides cost-effective care to millions of Americans in 
both rural and urban areas across our country.
  How is it that a nation that put the first man on the Moon still 
can't put lights on for our own American citizens in Puerto Rico? We 
need to help families clean out their flooded homes in the gulf, 
support communities that have faced out-of-control wildfires and 
mudslides during the devastating 2017 disaster season, and ensure 
affordable flood insurance is available to every homeowner who needs 
it.
  Americans stand by each other in the face of tragedy. This is why 
Senator Stabenow and I fought for a year to deliver Federal resources 
to Flint and continue working to make sure families are receiving the 
care they need and get their damaged pipes repaired. In addition to 
addressing all of these urgent issues, we need to keep the lights on in 
the Federal Government, where funding is set to expire again in just 2 
weeks.
  While the government was shut down this past weekend, I worked with a 
bipartisan group of Senators pulled together by my colleagues Senator 
Collins and Senator Manchin. This group is called the Common Sense 
Coalition, and we worked through the weekend to find a bipartisan 
compromise to open the Federal Government and find a path forward to 
tackle the complex, pressing issues before us in Congress.
  While the lights are back on, the real work is just beginning. In the 
coming weeks, we need to find a legislative solution to provide 
certainty to the Dreamers--young men and women brought to the United 
States as small children. They grew up as Americans, went to school 
here, served in our military, only speak English, and are every bit as 
American as you and I. They graduate from our colleges and universities 
and provide critical talent to a growing American economy. They start 
their own small businesses and create jobs in our communities. They are 
young adults who voluntarily came out of the shadows to participate in 
the DACA Program and are fearful they will be ripped from their home 
and be deported to a country they have never visited, a country where 
they don't even speak the language and will find themselves a stranger 
in a foreign land, which is an absolutely terrifying situation.
  Without question, we must also pass a disaster relief package to help 
communities devastated by the hurricanes, floods, and wildfires. We 
must also reauthorize the Community Health Center Program that provides 
essential healthcare to Americans and over 600,000 Michiganders.
  We must do more to fight the far-reaching opioid epidemic that is 
hurting and killing far too many of our friends, family, and neighbors. 
The opioid epidemic is a public health crisis that touches everyone in 
every State and every county.
  We need to deliver certainty to the hard-working Americans who spent

[[Page S515]]

decades earning their pensions and now see them at risk as they prepare 
to enter retirement, and we must follow through on our most basic of 
duties. We need a bipartisan deal to fund the government that takes 
care of the men and women who serve our country in the armed services, 
keeps us safe, and properly funds both our military and domestic 
programs.
  This will not be easy, but solving easy problems is not why we were 
sent to the Senate. I ran for the U.S. Senate to solve the tough 
problems facing our country, and I know my colleagues in the Common 
Sense Coalition ran to solve tough problems as well. We need the entire 
Senate and the House to start acting like one, big Common Sense 
Coalition. No organization or business can run their budget in 2- or 3-
week increments.
  The Defense Department and all of our domestic agencies need 
certainty for budget planning just like any household or business does. 
We cannot let the American people down any longer by kicking the can 
down the road with another series of short-term budget patches. The 
coming weeks will be difficult, but we need to rise to the occasion and 
deliver on all of these responsibilities. Now is the time for us to 
step up our game. The American people expect and deserve nothing less.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business for up to 10 minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                       Tribute to Jonathan Miller

  Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I rise to honor a member of my staff, 
Jonathan Miller, who has dedicated his life to serving his country and 
his State.
  Not only does Jonathan serve the people of Ohio each day on our 
staff, helping Ohio servicemembers and veterans, but he also wears the 
uniform himself, first as a member of the National Guard and now as a 
member of the Army Reserve. Earlier this month was his last day in the 
office for a year as his unit is deploying to fight for our country.
  Jonathan grew up in Macedonia, OH, and graduated from Nordonia High 
School and Ohio University. In 2011, while working toward his master's 
degree, he enlisted in the National Guard. Jon told me he enlisted, in 
part, because he was ``inspired by the debate and repeal of Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell and the stories of veterans in my family,'' like so many who 
join the armed services because of patriotism, family values, and 
family precedent.
  He said: ``The Army seemed like the place for me to help my community 
and my country and to experience new people, places, and ideas.''
  Jonathan went through officer candidate school in 2013 and now serves 
with the 300th Chemical Company, Army Reserve, out of Morgantown, WV. 
He has worked in our office since 2015 and has impressed all of us with 
his dedication to both of his jobs. In the Senate, he handles veterans 
and military issues along with energy and environmental policy. He has 
read, literally, thousands of letters from Ohio servicemembers and 
veterans over the years and has always worked to make sure their views 
and concerns have been heard and that our office has helped them 
whenever we have been able to. He has often called the families 
directly to follow up and listen to their stories.
  In 2016, during a meeting with the Gold Star Wives of America, Jon 
learned that education benefits for some spouses who had lost their 
loved ones in the earliest days following 9/11 would expire before they 
could make full use of this benefit their families had earned. He 
immediately brought this issue to my attention, and we worked to 
introduce the Military Spouses Achieving College Education for 
Survivors Act. We passed this bipartisan legislation as part of a 
larger veterans package that will directly affect veterans and their 
families in my State, in Nebraska, and other States across the country.
  Jonathan has played a critical role in ensuring that our military 
installations in my State have the support they need to perform 
critical national security missions--from the 180th in Toledo and the 
910 in Youngstown, to Camp Ravenna, to the base in my hometown of 
Mansfield, to Springfield, and of course to Wright-Patterson Air Force 
Base. He often attends visiting Ohio Honor Flight ceremonies, 
representing our office and supporting Ohio veterans who visit the 
memorials that have been built in their honor.
  His love for the outdoors and for Ohio has also shone through in his 
work on issues like protecting the Great Lakes, including the Great 
Lakes Restoration Initiative and in preserving the Cuyahoga Valley 
National Park, which is near his childhood home.
  I would add that Ohio is one of the lucky States east of the 
Mississippi in that it is one of the few States that has a national 
park, and it is not far from the population centers of Cleveland and 
Akron. Even though the Trump administration tried to zero out--the way 
we talk about it--or dramatically cut funding for the Great Lakes 
Restoration Initiative, I and Senator Portman, a Republican, worked 
together to restore that funding.
  We know keeping Lake Erie clean is an ongoing challenge. Right off 
the city of Toledo, Lake Erie is only 30 feet deep, contrasted with 
Lake Superior, which is 600 feet deep, on the average. That means, 
whether it is Ashtabula and Cleveland in Lake County to the east or it 
is Toledo to the west, Lake Erie is much more vulnerable to pollutants 
than are the other Great Lakes. This is why the work Jonathan does is 
so important in keeping that Great Lake clean.
  At the end of the week, while others might look forward to a relaxing 
weekend with family and friends, so often, Jonathan heads out for drill 
with his unit. He used to drive from Washington to Illinois and, later, 
to West Virginia for the weekend as part of his service. Now his unit 
is deploying. While we will miss his expertise, his enthusiasm, and his 
unique perspective in this office this year, we are also so grateful 
for his service to Ohio and to our country.
  One final note, before his deployment, last month, Jon got engaged to 
his partner Kevin. Jon and Kevin will join so many of Ohio's military 
families who understand the unique challenges of having a family member 
serving far from home.
  One of the things that is so important that we as Members of the 
Senate must do is recognize the service of our men and women in 
uniform. We should also recognize the importance of the service and 
sacrifice of those family members who are left behind and who often 
live in the margins financially.
  On behalf of my whole office, we congratulate Jon and Kevin on their 
engagement. We wish Jon well on his tour overseas, and we thank him for 
his sacrifice and his service.


                   CHIP and Community Health Centers

  Madam President, Congress finally did the right thing, after having 
failed to do the right thing in September and October and November and 
December and early January, by reauthorizing the Children's Health 
Insurance Program. The bill passed out of the Senate Finance Committee 
with only one ``no'' vote. The Children's Health Insurance Program has 
been around for 20 years, and it has always been bipartisan.
  There are 209,000 children in Ohio who benefit from the Children's 
Health Insurance Program. These are children--sons and daughters--of 
parents who generally work full time but who only make $8 or $10 or $12 
an hour. These families often don't have insurance themselves, but the 
Children's Health Insurance Program will provide insurance for those 
children.
  It is particularly aggravating to many of us that so many Members of 
Congress--all of us who have health insurance provided by taxpayers--
failed to continue the program, which has always been bipartisan, in 
September, when the program expired, as well as in October and November 
and December. Now, as our vote the other day demonstrated, the 
Children's Health Insurance Program will be around for 6 more years as 
we continue to make improvements with it. The problem is, while we 
provide insurance for 6 more years for these 209,000 children in Ohio 
and 9 million children all over the country, we

[[Page S516]]

haven't, in so many cases, provided the place and the environment for 
these parents to take their children.
  One big shortcoming is Congress's refusal to do its job to 
reauthorize the community health centers, the so-called federally 
qualified health centers. My State is home to several dozen federally 
qualified community health centers. They provide all kinds of 
healthcare services, in many cases, including pediatric, dentistry, all 
kinds of preventive care, all kinds of emergency care, and other help 
for so many families, particularly for low-income families, in their 
neighborhoods, where this can make a difference.
  I want to briefly share three letters to illustrate the importance of 
this.
  Stephanie Wiersma, the CEO of Lorain County Health & Dentistry, wrote 
to me 2 weeks ago before we passed the most recent continuing 
resolution:

       We desperately plod on, doing all the right things for our 
     health centers and patients, yet for months we have been in 
     limbo and, frankly, sick with fear.
       I worry about the impact on my staff and patients. I know 
     the impact on recruitment of providers . . . what 
     professional wants to chance a funding crisis to come work 
     for a health center at this point in time?
       Open provider positions means less access to care, plain 
     and simple. Access is especially important now with all the 
     flu and illness going around.

  What Stephanie is saying is that when Congress doesn't do its job--
when all of us who have health insurance that is paid for by taxpayers 
fail to do our jobs--these community health centers, which are 
professionally run and close to home for so many families, cannot plan 
for the future. They cannot recruit a physical therapist or a pediatric 
dentist or an internist or a family practice doctor. Is a professional 
provider, who has invested a lot of money in her education, going to 
want to go to a health center where Congress simply doesn't do its job 
in providing funding? I think Stephanie wrote that so very well.
  Jared Pollick, CEO of Third Street Family Health Services in my 
hometown of Mansfield, wrote:

       It is nearly impossible to make sound strategic decisions 
     for our organizations without the security of our funding. We 
     are always told both sides of the aisle love Community Health 
     Centers. We really need them to show it with funding.

  That is exactly right. I have heard my Republican colleagues talk 
almost ad nauseam about how much they like the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, how much they like the community health centers, and 
I think they really in their guts do. But then Senator McConnell and 
the Republican leadership let them expire on September 30, did nothing 
in October, nothing in November, nothing in December. They did a tax 
cut for the rich. We know that, but they didn't reauthorize, didn't 
provide additional significant, predictable, sufficient funding for the 
community health centers or the Children's Health Insurance Program. A 
week ago, finally, we did the Children's Health Insurance Program, but 
we left hanging the community health centers.
  The last letter is from Julie DiRossi-King, chief operating officer 
for the Ohio Association of Community Health Centers, which represents 
512 health centers in Ohio. She said:

       We have hit that critical point . . . that the Community 
     Health Center Program as we know and rely on it today will 
     soon be on life support. There literally is no room for 
     additional delay.

  I appreciate that Congress finally did the right thing on the 
Children's Health Insurance Program. I ask Congress to do what is right 
for the community health centers. It will literally save lives and will 
matter for so many families in my State and States all over the 
country.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sasse). The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that all time be 
yielded back on both sides and the Senate proceed to the vote.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the James 
nomination?
  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There is a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. 
Corker), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch), and the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey).
  Mr. SCHUMER. I announce that the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the Senator 
from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. 
McCaskill), are necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Perdue). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 89, nays 1, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 24 Ex.]

                                YEAS--89

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Booker
     Boozman
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Gillibrand
     Graham
     Grassley
     Harris
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     Markey
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--1

       
     Sanders
       

                             NOT VOTING--10

     Blumenthal
     Burr
     Casey
     Corker
     Durbin
     McCain
     McCaskill
     Moran
     Risch
     Toomey
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.
  The Senator from Alaska.

                          ____________________



