

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H25]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





      RECOGNIZING THE UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA FOOTBALL TEAM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Mrs. Murphy) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. MURPHY of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the football 
team at the University of Central Florida located in my congressional 
district.
  The Knights finished the season ranked sixth in the Nation by the 
Associated Press. They had a perfect 13-0 record--the only team in 
college football to go undefeated. UCF won the American Athletic 
Conference championship with an exhilarating--and excruciating--double-
overtime victory against a talented team from the University of 
Memphis.
  The Knights shook up the world of college football in the Peach Bowl 
on New Year's Day when they beat Auburn University, one of the most 
storied football programs in the country.
  I had a personal stake in the outcome of the Peach Bowl, having made 
a friendly bet on the game with Congressman Mike Rogers, whose Alabama 
district is home to Auburn. I am excited to collect my winnings from 
Congressman Rogers later today, a bucket of delicious Florida oranges 
that he will deliver to me while carrying a UCF helmet.
  I thank the football gods that UCF did not lose. Under the terms of 
the wager, I would have been compelled to blanket a tree on the Capitol 
grounds with toilet paper, pursuant to a time-honored and, frankly, 
bewildering Auburn tradition. I am grateful that the Knights saved 
Capitol Police from the trouble of having to arrest a Member of 
Congress for vandalism.
  Even though UCF was not given the opportunity to play for the 
national championship, the players and coaches of this team are 
national champions in my book. The Knights didn't just win games, they 
also won our hearts. They didn't just beat opponents, they also beat 
the odds. Sports--in particular, team sports--have a unique power to 
captivate, to unify, and to inspire.
  Under the strong and steady leadership of Head Coach Scott Frost, the 
Knights captivated the school's students and alumni, filling them with 
pride. They united our Central Florida University community from 
Orlando to Oviedo, from Apopka to Altamonte Springs, and they inspired 
countless people, young and old alike, both football experts and 
novices. Importantly, UCF the football team brought national attention 
to UCF the university, which has quietly become one of Florida's 
and our Nation's academic gems.

  To be sure, the Knights' squad was filled with talented players, 
seven of whom won first team all-conference honors, including rifle-
armed quarterback McKenzie Milton, fleet-footed running back Adrian 
Killins, and one-handed defensive warrior Shaquem Griffin, who 
personifies courage and character.
  Many members of the team justifiably played with a chip on their 
shoulder, having been overlooked by more established college football 
programs coming out of high school. They had to earn respect through 
their actions. Ultimately, what made the Knights so special and so 
successful was not what they accomplished as individuals, but, rather, 
what they achieved together as a team.
  It was clear from watching the coaches and players that they loved 
and respected each other. The bond they shared made them teammates in 
the truest sense of the word. The team's motto, which is the name of 
the UCF fight song, is ``Charge on.'' It is a message whose power 
extends beyond the football field and applies to life itself. When you 
confront challenges, charge on. When others doubt your abilities, 
charge on. And when you think you can't work any harder, charge on.
  As a proud fan, I thank the UCF football team for showing us all what 
it means to charge on.

                          ____________________



