

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1336]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              NORTHERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY'S FOUNDERS DAY

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, it is my privilege to highlight the 
50th anniversary of the founding of Northern Kentucky University, NKU. 
I am proud to join with NKU's more than 14,000 students, its faculty 
and staff, and its supporters in marking the history of the 
institution.
  As northern Kentucky was previously the only region in the State 
without a traditional public university, many students lacked the 
opportunity to attend a local 4-year institution of higher education 
that students in other regions of Kentucky enjoyed. In response, a 
bipartisan group of State legislators from the region worked with 
Kentucky Governor Louie B. Nunn to establish a new school in 1968. 
Originally named Northern Kentucky State College, the school proved to 
be an attractive option for local students from the region. Less than a 
decade later, as the campus continued to expand its programs and 
services to accommodate a growing student population, the school became 
a university, changing its name to Northern Kentucky University, NKU. 
Since that time, NKU has continued to thrive, adding more 
undergraduate, graduate, and even doctoral programs, which have 
attracted a broader base of students to the university. These 
advancements, coupled with the region's population growth and economic 
development, have been an immense benefit to Northern Kentucky.
  NKU has also expanded athletic opportunities for its students and has 
built a number of strong teams. Having dominated NCAA Division II play 
with two women's basketball national championships and one men's soccer 
national championship, the Norse recently transitioned into NCAA 
Division I. With this new reclassification, the Norse teams have 
continued to excel. Winning the Horizon League tournament last year, 
the men's basketball team earned their first trip to the NCAA Division 
I tournament. This year, the team's hard work earned their title as the 
Horizon League's regular season champions. In addition, the Norse have 
many other impressive teams and dedicated fans.
  On its golden anniversary, NKU has so much to be proud of. Under the 
leadership of Interim President Gerard St. Amand, the school continues 
to grow in both size and prominence. It has matured into a 
comprehensive university that delivers innovative, student-centered 
education and engages in impactful scholarly and creative endeavors, 
all of which empower its graduates to have fulfilling careers and 
meaningful lives.
  With successful alumni who have entered a wide range of careers, from 
government leaders to entrepreneurs, to artists, and to coaches, NKU 
has helped more than 60,000 students achieve their dreams. For a half 
century, NKU has had a tremendous impact on the economic, civic, and 
social vitality of the region, and all Kentuckians are benefiting from 
having such an outstanding higher education institution in our 
Commonwealth. I would like to congratulate the entire Northern Kentucky 
University community on reaching this Founders Day milestone, and I 
urge my Senate colleagues to join me in recognizing its 
accomplishments.

                          ____________________



