

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H161-H162]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM

  (Mr. HOYER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
McCarthy), my friend and the majority leader, for the purpose of 
inquiring about the schedule for the week to come.
  (Mr. McCARTHY asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, on Monday, no votes are expected in the House. On 
Tuesday, the House will meet at noon for morning hour and 2 p.m. for 
legislative business. Votes will be postponed until 6:30 p.m. On 
Wednesday and Thursday, the House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning hour 
and noon for legislative business. On Friday, the House will meet at 9 
a.m. for legislative business. Last votes of the week are expected no 
later than 3 p.m.
  Mr. Speaker, the House will consider a number of suspensions next 
week, a complete list of which will be announced by close of business 
tomorrow.
  In addition, the House will consider two measures from the Financial 
Services Committee: first, H.R. 2954, the Home Mortgage Disclosure 
Adjustment Act, sponsored by Representative Tom Emmer. This bill would 
provide targeted regulatory relief to our local community banks and 
credit unions; second, H.R. 3326, the World Bank Accountability Act, 
sponsored by Representative Andy Barr.
  Mr. Speaker, next week, our Nation's Capital will also welcome tens 
of thousands of Americans to Washington for the annual March for Life. 
In conjunction, the House will vote on H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive 
Abortion Survivors Protection Act, sponsored by Representative Marsha 
Blackburn. This bill simply states that doctors must provide medical 
care to any child born alive after a failed abortion.
  Finally, Mr. Speaker, additional legislative items are expected, 
including legislation to address government funding and other expiring 
priorities. I will be sure to inform all Members as soon as any 
additional items are added to our schedule.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend for yielding.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for that information.
  I presume the CR, or continuing resolution, is anticipated, as the 
gentleman referenced. Is that accurate?
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  As the gentleman knows, we have been in discussions to try to get a 
budget agreement. We have hopes we can get that done this time. If we 
are able to get that budget agreement, we will need some time for the 
appropriators to do their work, so we would have a continuing 
resolution.

[[Page H162]]

  

  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for that.
  Will that continuing resolution be clean, from the gentleman's 
standpoint--that is to say, it will not include other items on it--or 
does the gentleman have any anticipation that other items might be 
included on that?
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  I am hoping he is asking this question so he will return and start 
voting for this. But in the past, that has been what we have done, the 
last two, and I don't see any change in what we are moving forward with 
now.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.
  Mr. Speaker, the gentleman and I had the opportunity to be at the 
White House with the President earlier this week. He and I are 
attempting to work on seeing if we can make sure that we protect our 
DREAMers. I think we saw a unanimous opinion in the White House among 
the 17 Republicans and 7 or 8 Democrats who were there that it ought to 
be done. I was pleased the President said that it ought to be done, and 
ought to be done quickly. I appreciate the gentleman's efforts on that 
score.
  Obviously, we also need to do something with the Children's Health 
Insurance Program. We have talked about that before.
  We need to do something with respect to the supplemental for Puerto 
Rico and the Virgin Islands, as well as Florida and Texas. Obviously, 
we passed a supplemental here, and it did not pass in the Senate. 
Hopefully, the Senate will address that, and we can address it coming 
back across the aisle.
  In addition, we are going to have to, as the gentleman referred to, 
establish caps. We still, at this late hour, late date, do not have a 
figure for the Appropriations Committee to use in terms of what they 
will mark their bills to. You mentioned it, but does the gentleman have 
any update or degree of confidence that will be done within the next 
few days?

  Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, the negotiations have been progressing further, as they 
have for the last month or so. I believe, as we both know, in the need 
of this funding for our military. I believe that the military should 
not be held hostage for any other issue.
  So I believe we can get to a solution here, and I am hopeful that 
those who have been negotiating can find common ground in the next day 
or two so that we can move forward.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.
  Mr. Speaker, nobody has any intention, of course, of holding the 
military hostage.
  Secretary Mattis and his predecessors have all believed that a CR is 
damaging to the military's ability to move forward and plan. I would 
suggest to my friend, the majority leader, Mr. Speaker, that it is 
equally damaging to the nondefense side of the budget. Administrators 
and secretaries cannot plan for what resources they will have a month 
out, 2 months out, or until September 30 and the end of the fiscal 
year. Reaching agreement is important on both sides of the budget.
  In addition, I would respectfully hope that we can pursue the policy 
and agreement that we made and on which Speaker Ryan was a principal on 
your side of the aisle and Senator Murray was the principal on our side 
of the aisle and reached agreement on the parity of increase--not 
parity of expenditures, because we spend more on defense, but parity of 
increase. Mr. Speaker, I would hope we could pursue that. It would 
accelerate agreement on how we are going forward.
  I know the gentleman is going to be working on both of those efforts. 
I appreciate that and look forward to working with him.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



