

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H628-H629]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. GRANGER:
       H.R. 4877. A bill Making appropriations for the Department 
     of Defense for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, and 
     in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 4878. A bill to establish the Federal Labor-Management 
     Partnership Council, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Mr. 
             Goodlatte, Mr. Marshall, and Mr. Pittenger):
       H.R. 4879. A bill to prevent States and local jurisdictions 
     from interfering with the production and distribution of 
     agricultural products in interstate or foreign commerce, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be

[[Page H629]]

     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER:
       H.R. 4880. A bill to revise the boundaries of certain John 
     H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System units in Delaware; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Mr. Loebsack):
       H.R. 4881. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to establish a task force for meeting the 
     connectivity and technology needs of precision agriculture in 
     the United States; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 4882. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat amounts paid for private umbilical cord blood 
     or umbilical cord tissue, or placental blood or placental 
     tissue, banking services as medical care expenses; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. POLIS:
       H.R. 4883. A bill to provide for the designation of certain 
     wilderness areas, recreation management areas, and 
     conservation areas in the State of Colorado, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself and Mr. Schneider):
       H.R. 4884. A bill to deter foreign interference in United 
     States elections, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Intelligence (Permanent Select), the Judiciary, and Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Ms. Norton, Ms. Bass, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 4885. A bill to require the Federal Insurance Office 
     of the Department of the Treasury to conduct a study to 
     identify disparities between communities in auto insurance 
     costs and payout amounts based on the predominant racial 
     makeup of such communities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. ADERHOLT:
       H. Con. Res. 101. Concurrent resolution providing for a 
     joint session of Congress to receive a message from the 
     President; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Serrano, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Rush, Ms. Lee, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Moore, Ms. Bass, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Espaillat, and Ms. Jackson 
             Lee):
       H. Res. 713. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of the designation of January 1, 2015, to December 31, 2024, 
     as the ``International Decade for People of African 
     Descent''; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



