

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H23]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1015
                         PENNSYLVANIA FARM SHOW

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, over the weekend, the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania kicked off one of my favorite events, the 
Pennsylvania Farm Show.
  For more than a century, farmers have gathered each January at the 
Pennsylvania Farm Show in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. This week, we are 
having the 102nd Pennsylvania Farm Show. This weeklong event is the 
largest indoor agriculture exposition in the Nation, showcasing over 
6,000 animals, featuring nearly 12,000 exhibits, and more than half a 
million visitors.
  Each year, I host a listening session at the Farm Show and we cover a 
range of topics during the public forum, from raising awareness about 
agriculture education to hearing very real concerns from our dairy 
farmers and more. As we embark on crafting the next farm bill, the 2018 
listening session was extremely important.
  I want to thank the following Members who were able to join this 
year's Farm Show: Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson, 
Congressman Dwight Evans, Congressman Tom Marino, Congressman Roger 
Marshall, and Congressman Lloyd Smucker. I also want to thank USDA 
Under Secretary Greg Ibach for coming up to join us. I was honored to 
be joined by Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture Secretary Russell 
Redding.
  The Pennsylvania Farm Show truly does bring together so many 
different people in the ag community and it is an event like none 
other. As vice chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, I am very 
proud of this fine event that takes place in the Commonwealth.
  The Farm Show complex houses 24 acres under one roof, spreading 
throughout 11 buildings, including three arenas. There is no admission 
fee and it is a great event for the entire family. There are numerous 
educational shows that are all free of charge.
  The Pennsylvania Farm Show provides an atmosphere for everyone to 
walk through, observe, and educate themselves about different areas of 
agriculture, the Commonwealth's largest industry, which brings in 
nearly $6.9 billion annually in agricultural cash receipts. Almost half 
a million jobs are tied to the industry, which positively impacts all 
Pennsylvanians.
  Undoubtedly, one of the most popular attractions at the Pennsylvania 
Farm Show is the Food Court. Located in the Expo Hall and Main Hall of 
the complex, the Food Court offers visitors a variety of Pennsylvania 
products--PA Preferred products--and it generates income to support the 
nonprofit Pennsylvania Agricultural Commodity Organizations.
  Mr. Speaker, over a century ago, the first Pennsylvania Farm Show was 
a 3-day exhibit. Today, the event is a weeklong, 8-day celebration of 
how the agricultural industry touches our everyday lives. Proudly, this 
event draws visitors from across the country to highlight everything 
our State has to offer when it comes to ag.
  Numerous students participate in the event as well from 4-H clubs and 
FAA organizations.
  The Pennsylvania Farm Show truly showcases our Nation's farmers and 
landowners, and I was thrilled to again take part in the best 
agricultural expo in the country.

                          ____________________



