

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1379-S1380]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to 
award the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his 
heroic achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle 
East.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 517

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 517, a bill to 
amend the Clean Air Act with respect to the ethanol waiver for Reid 
vapor pressure limitations under such Act.


                                 S. 607

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 607, a bill 
to establish a business incubators program within the Department of the 
Interior to promote economic development in Indian reservation 
communities.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 720, a bill to amend the Export Administration Act 
of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts against allies of 
the United States boycotts fostered by international governmental 
organizations against Israel and to direct the Export-Import Bank of 
the United States to oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 834

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 834, a bill to authorize 
the appropriation of funds to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention for conducting or supporting research on firearms safety or 
gun violence prevention.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 915, a bill to amend 
title II of the Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension 
offset and windfall elimination provisions.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1539, a bill to 
protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1600

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1600, a bill to amend 
title II of the Social Security Act and the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to make improvements in the old-age, survivors, and disability 
insurance program, and to provide for Social Security benefit 
protection.


                                S. 1667

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1667, a bill 
to amend the Public Health Service Act to provide protections for 
consumers against excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory 
increases in premium rates.


                                S. 1676

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1676, a bill to 
amend the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 to provide grants for 
access to broadband telecommunications services in rural areas, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1697

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller) and 
the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1697, a bill to condition assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps 
by the Palestinian Authority to end violence and terrorism against 
Israeli citizens and United States Citizens.


                                S. 1911

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1911, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2009

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2009, a bill to require a 
background check for every firearm sale.


                                S. 2047

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2047, a bill to restrict the use of funds for 
kinetic military operations in North Korea.


                                S. 2095

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2095, a bill to regulate assault weapons, to ensure 
that the right to keep and bear arms is not unlimited, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), the 
Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce 
current law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check 
System.


                                S. 2147

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2147, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create a Pension 
Rehabilitation Trust Fund to establish a Pension Rehabilitation 
Administration within the Department of the Treasury to make loans to 
multiemployer defined benefit plans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2268

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2268, a bill to amend 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to modify certain provisions relating 
to the capital financing of historically Black colleges and 
universities.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2271, a bill to 
reauthorize the Museum and Library Services Act.


                                S. 2286

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2286, a bill 
to amend the Peace Corps Act to provide greater protection and services 
for Peace Corps volunteers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2289

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2289, a bill to create an 
Office of Cybersecurity at the Federal Trade Commission for supervision 
of data security at consumer reporting agencies, to require the 
promulgation of regulations establishing standards for effective 
cybersecurity at consumer reporting agencies, to impose penalties on 
credit reporting agencies for cybersecurity breaches that put sensitive 
consumer data at risk, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2334

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2334, a bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
provide clarity with respect to, and to modernize,

[[Page S1380]]

the licensing system for musical works under section 115 of that title, 
to ensure fairness in the establishment of certain rates and fees under 
sections 114 and 115 of that title, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2343

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2343, a bill to require the Federal Communications 
Commission to establish a task force for meeting the connectivity and 
technology needs of precision agriculture in the United States.


                                S. 2360

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2360, a bill 
to provide for the minimum size of crews of freight trains, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2381

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2381, a bill to 
amend title 23, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
Transportation to require that broadband conduits be installed as a 
part of certain highway construction projects, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2383

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2383, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to improve law enforcement access 
to data stored across borders, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2467

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2467, a bill to direct the 
Joint Committee on the Library to obtain a statue of Shirley Chisholm 
for placement in the United States Capitol.


                                S. 2490

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2490, a bill to amend the Real 
Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 to modify requirements related 
to mortgage disclosures.


                                S. 2494

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2494, a bill to provide standards for short-
term limited duration health insurance policies.


                                S. 2497

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator 
from Maryland (Mr. Cardin), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the 
Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) were added as cosponsors of S. 2497, a bill to amend the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act to make 
improvements to certain defense and security assistance provisions and 
to authorize the appropriations of funds to Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 54, a 
joint resolution to direct the removal of United States Armed Forces 
from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that have not been authorized 
by Congress.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 7, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt 
fraternal benefit societies have historically provided and continue to 
provide critical benefits to the people and communities of the United 
States.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 377, a resolution 
recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those individuals who 
have faithfully served and retired from the Armed Forces of the United 
States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military Retiree Appreciation 
Day'', and encouraging the people of the United States to honor the 
past and continued service of military retirees to their local 
communities and the United States.


                              S. RES. 402

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 402, a resolution 
calling upon the President to exercise relevant mandatory sanctions 
authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries Through 
Sanctions Act in response to the Government of the Russian Federation's 
continued aggression in Ukraine and illegal occupation of Crimea and 
assault on democratic institutions around the world, including through 
cyber attacks.

                          ____________________



