

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H3146-H3147]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DEUTCH:
       H.R. 5466. A bill to exempt Social Security, Medicare, and 
     Medicaid from any Federal balanced budget requirement, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Jones, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Mr. Bost, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Capuano, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Correa, Mrs. 
             Davis of California, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Kinzinger, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Neal, Mr. Norman, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Peterson, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Raskin, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             Suozzi, Mr. Soto, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. 
             Vela, Ms. Velazquez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, and Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida):
       H.R. 5467. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     extend certain morale, welfare, and recreation privileges to 
     certain veterans and their caregivers, to authorize the 
     appropriation of funds for the purpose of improving the 
     electronic physical access control system used by military 
     commissaries and exchanges, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Goodlatte, 
             Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Collins of Georgia, and Mr. 
             Amodei):
       H.R. 5468. A bill to amend chapter 7 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to provide for certain limitations on judicial 
     review of agency actions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 5469. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978 to require Members of Congress to disclose business ties 
     with foreign entities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself and Mr. Mooney of West 
             Virginia):
       H.R. 5470. A bill to repeal the Office of Financial 
     Research, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 5471. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to establish a Gateway Communities Improvement Program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself and Mr. 
             Cartwright):
       H.R. 5472. A bill to promote competition and help consumers 
     save money by giving them the freedom to choose where they 
     buy prescription pet medications, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of 
             New Mexico):
       H.R. 5473. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to update or issue one or more guidances 
     addressing alternative methods for data collection on opioid 
     sparing and inclusion of such data in product labeling, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Serrano, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. 
             Soto, Ms. Velazquez, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. 
             Vargas, Ms. Norton, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Raskin, and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 5474. A bill to make available necessary disaster 
     assistance for families affected by major disasters, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself, Mrs. Hartzler, 
             Mr. Long, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Clay, Mr. Cleaver, 
             Mrs. Wagner, and Mr. Smith of Missouri):
       H.R. 5475. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 108 North Macon Street in 
     Bevier, Missouri, as the ``SO2 Navy SEAL Adam Olin Smith Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Mr. 
             Cohen):
       H.R. 5476. A bill to ensure independent investigations and 
     judicial review of the removal of a special counsel, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN:
       H.R. 5477. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for a demonstration project to increase 
     substance use

[[Page H3147]]

     provider capacity under the Medicaid program; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SABLAN:
       H.R. 5478. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     make funds available for the Commonwealth of the Northern 
     Mariana Islands pilot project for fiscal years 2019 through 
     2023; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. WALZ (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 5479. A bill to direct the Commissioner of the 
     Internal Revenue Service to establish a special unit within 
     the office of Stakeholder Partnership, Education and 
     Communication to provide members of the uniformed services 
     with tax assistance, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE:
       H. Res. 814. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H. Res. 815. A resolution commemorating the 70th 
     anniversary of the foundation of the State of Israel and the 
     opening of the United States Embassy in Jerusalem; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 816. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas (for himself, Ms. Bass, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Crist, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Fudge, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Huffman, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Pallone, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Raskin, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Sires, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Veasey, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, and Mr. Smith of Washington):
       H. Res. 817. A resolution promoting and supporting the 
     goals and ideals of the Fair Housing Act and recognizing 
     April 2018 as Fair Housing Month, which includes bringing 
     attention to the discrimination faced by every-day Americans 
     in the United States in housing and housing-related 
     transactions on the basis of race, color, national origin, 
     sex, familial status, disability, and religion; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Ms. Lee, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Moore, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Hastings, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Cleaver, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mrs. Napolitano, Mrs. Beatty, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             McEachin, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Crist, 
             Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Lawson of Florida, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, and Mrs. Torres):
       H. Res. 818. A resolution recognizing ``Black Maternal 
     Health Week'' to bring national attention to the maternal 
     health care crisis in the Black community and the importance 
     of reducing the rate of maternal mortality and morbidity 
     among Black women; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Meehan, 
             and Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania):
       H. Res. 819. A resolution recognizing the 110th anniversary 
     of the American Association for Cancer Research, the world's 
     first and largest professional organization dedicated to the 
     conquest of cancer; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Hastings, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. 
             Payne, and Ms. Moore):
       H. Res. 820. A resolution recognizing the life and 
     significant contributions of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, the 
     former wife of Nelson Mandela, and an icon in the 
     international fight against apartheid and injustice in South 
     Africa, for her leadership and her devotion to the cause of 
     freedom for all South Africans; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California:
       H. Res. 821. A resolution recognizing the importance of the 
     Vietnam Veterans Memorial, its replica which travels in ``The 
     Wall That Heals'' exhibit, and the distinguished 
     servicemembers the memorials honor and commemorate; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.

                          ____________________



