

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1440-H1441]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:


[[Page H1441]]


  

           By Mr. TIPTON (for himself and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H.R. 5171. A bill to amend the Omnibus Parks and Public 
     Lands Management Act of 1996 to provide for the establishment 
     of a Ski Area Fee Retention Account; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself and Mr. Pearce):
       H.R. 5172. A bill to assist Indian tribes in maintaining, 
     expanding, and deploying broadband systems; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Valadao, and Mr. 
             Costa):
       H.R. 5173. A bill to include Portugal in the list of 
     foreign states whose nationals are eligible for admission 
     into the United States as E-1 and E-2 nonimmigrants if United 
     States nationals are treated similarly by the Government of 
     Portugal; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 5174. A bill to amend the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act with respect to functions assigned to 
     Assistant Secretaries, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. UPTON (for himself and Mr. Loebsack):
       H.R. 5175. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     carry out a program relating to physical security and 
     cybersecurity for pipelines and liquefied natural gas 
     facilities; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Michael F. Doyle 
             of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 5176. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to provide coordinated care to patients who 
     have experienced a non-fatal overdose after emergency room 
     discharge, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 5177. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Defense, in awarding a contract 
     for the procurement of goods or services, to give a 
     preference to offerors that employ veterans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 5178. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide for small business concerns located in Puerto Rico, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN:
       H.R. 5179. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to coordinate a National Cyber Hacking Competition 
     for high school students, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself and Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts):
       H.R. 5180. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to provide protections for emloyees receving tips, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. FASO:
       H.R. 5181. A bill to require certain licensees under the 
     Federal Power Act make annual payments to the county in which 
     a licensed hydropower facility is located, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mrs. Lawrence, and Ms. Jayapal):
       H.R. 5182. A bill to require annual reports on funds 
     expended by the Federal Government with the Trump 
     Organization, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico (for herself, Mr. 
             Soto, and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 5183. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to apply the rules related to the treatment of certain 
     qualified film and television and live theatrical productions 
     to Puerto Rico; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 5184. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     improve conservation practice standards, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. MEADOWS:
       H.R. 5185. A bill to make supplemental appropriations for 
     the Cops in Schools program for fiscal year 2018; to the 
     Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. MEADOWS:
       H.R. 5186. A bill to amend the definition of a school 
     resource officer to include certain veterans; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALKER (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Holding, Mr. Jones, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. 
             Foxx, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. McHenry, Mr. 
             Meadows, and Mr. Budd):
       H.R. 5187. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1585 Yanceyville Street, 
     Greensboro, North Carolina, as the ``J. Howard Coble Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. WALZ:
       H.R. 5188. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 
     with respect to land stewardship, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 764. A resolution electing Members to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. King of New 
             York, Ms. Schakowsky, and Ms. Matsui):
       H. Res. 765. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of May 15, 2018, as ``National Senior Fraud 
     Awareness Day'' to raise awareness about the barrage of fraud 
     attempts that seniors face, to encourage the implementation 
     of policies to prevent these scams from happening, and to 
     improve protections from these scams for seniors; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



