

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H3066]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     WELCOMING THE NATIONAL GROCERS ASSOCIATION TO WASHINGTON, D.C.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to welcome 
the National Grocers Association to Washington, D.C., this week for 
their annual fly-in.
  Our grocers have a tremendous impact on our communities throughout 
the country. In the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania alone, food retailers 
provide more than 220,000 jobs, have an output of $15 billion, and a 
total economic impact of $39 billion.
  As the House Agriculture Committee continues to move forward with the 
farm bill, it will be important to our grocers, who provide food to 
American families.
  Over the past 3 years, the Agriculture Committee has hosted 21 
hearings on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, SNAP, and 
has heard from more than 80 witnesses.
  SNAP and other Federal nutrition programs are vital to ensuring that 
all Americans have healthy foods within reach, whether low income 
populations, the elderly, or those living in areas with strained access 
to nutritious food.
  We will continue to identify ways to work alongside State and local 
organizations to help provide safe and nutritious food for those who 
need it most.
  One of my primary goals with SNAP is to ensure that those who truly 
need the assistance when falling on hard times continue to have access 
to this critical program.
  Limited access to supermarkets and grocery stores with nutritious 
fresh foods can be a challenge in both rural and urban communities. We 
know them as food deserts.
  According to USDA, to qualify as a low-access community, at least 500 
people and/or at least 33 percent of the population must reside more 
than 1 mile from a supermarket or large grocery store. For rural areas, 
the distance is more than 10 miles.
  I know from personal experience the value of Federal assistance, 
particularly WIC, when times do get tough. I have also seen the value 
of obtaining an education and ultimately finding a career path.
  Unfortunately, too many Americans at the poverty level are caught in 
a cycle. We want to change that cycle by providing a workforce solution 
and necessary supports, walking with individuals on their pathway to 
self-reliance and success.
  The House farm bill makes a significant, even historical, investment 
in SNAP employment and training to equip States with resources to arm 
participants with the soft skills, the job search skills, 
certifications, and education needed to succeed in today's economy.
  But to ensure this investment yields results, we are also making 
these work requirements mandatory. We have a unique opportunity to 
expand funding for these life-changing programs by closing loopholes 
only utilized by certain States, and improving opportunities for 
individuals who have been marginalized by a lack of employment, 
education, or life circumstances.
  For nearly 80 percent of the SNAP recipients--children, seniors, and 
the disabled--these requirements won't change anything. For those who 
rely on SNAP and will continue to do so, we want to ensure that they 
have access to the array of foods that benefit their health and their 
well-being.
  Our bill allows retailers to expand the purchasing power of 
recipients via incentive programs, and we are also expanding or 
enhancing current incentive and nutrition education programs to improve 
diet quality and awareness.
  We want to emphasize the importance of consumer choice and the impact 
SNAP has on our communities and families.
  Madam Speaker, I appreciate having our Nation's grocers in town 
today, and I look forward to continuing the Agriculture Committee's 
good work on the next farm bill. After all, farmers feed and nutrition 
matters.

                          ____________________



