

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H3099-H3100]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   MY COMMITMENT TO DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION AND THE RULE OF LAW AS A 
                         CITIZEN OF THIS NATION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Gutierrez) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. GUTIERREZ. Mr. Speaker, the President said to reporters at the 
White House on Monday: ``And it's a disgrace. It's, frankly, a real 
disgrace. It's an attack on our country, in a true sense. It's an 
attack on what we all stand for.''
  While I agree that there has been a disgraceful attack on our 
country, I don't think it is the investigation that is closing in on 
the President, but rather his disgraceful reaction to it.
  We now know, without any doubt, that the special counsel's 
investigation is closing in on the President and those very, very close 
to him. I don't think lawful warrants legally executed against the 
homes, office, and hotel rooms of the President's chief fixer and 
fellow grifter are the problem.
  Rather, it is the constant threats to further obstruct justice by a 
sitting President, to thwart those lawful investigations from reaching 
their logical conclusions. That is what I and a lot of patriotic 
Americans are worried about.
  What we find disgraceful is the President's attitude toward law 
enforcement and the circumstances that have led us to this moment, 
including the apparent dealings with the Kremlin, the campaign finance 
violations, the hush money payoffs to silence witnesses, and using 
one's elected office to influence and even try to end an investigation 
in which you are the target.
  When he is the target, it is called disgraceful.
  Before we left for the Easter break, Democrats on the Judiciary 
Committee made a commitment that we would be on the first plane back to 
Washington to initiate hearings if the President took action to further 
obstruct justice, including firing the Attorney General for recusing 
himself or the deputy attorney general or the special counsel.
  The President reiterated his threats to subvert justice by firing key 
Justice officials this week. So I feel obligated to reiterate my 
commitment to defend the Constitution and the rule of law as a citizen 
of this Nation.
  Let's be clear. Republicans have no intention of investigating, 
holding hearings, or taking seriously their constitutional mandate, no 
matter how far this President goes.
  When athletes kneel during the national anthem or the former 
President wears a tan suit or salutes a marine while holding a cup of 
coffee, that is a constitutional crisis. But when the President 
threatens to fire the special counsel, well, you know.
  We cannot rely on Republicans to defend democracy and our system of 
government as long as they find political and personal advantage in 
walking lockstep with the President, or they tremble in fear of what 
would be in a tweet if they stepped out of line.
  And we as Democrats, well, we are in the minority, so we are almost 
powerless unless some of our fellow colleagues put country ahead of 
party.
  But human beings are very resourceful and fight fiercely for their 
own freedom. When we are united in great numbers, we can accomplish any 
goal.
  In Selma and elsewhere, Dr. King and others showed us that beatings, 
lynchings, and State-sanctioned discrimination could not withstand the 
power of the people fighting for justice and equality.
  In turn, they inspired, in part, the resistance known as the Prague 
Spring in Central Europe, when people stood up to tanks and repression, 
and eventually the wall came down.
  In Africa, the Americas, Asia, and across the Arab world, people are 
still fighting to secure their freedom.
  And in China, the image of a lone man standing up to tanks to defend 
his country moved the world.
  One man standing up will not be enough, but many American women and 
men are already heeding the call. Young people from Parkland, Florida, 
called us to Washington by the millions, despite viscous attacks.
  Women led the way by the millions in Washington and around the world.
  And when our Muslim brothers and sisters called us to the airports to 
oppose Trump's religious ban, we came in numbers.
  We have to be ready to come to Washington quickly, massively, 
energetically, in huge number when the

[[Page H3100]]

shoe drops. We have to answer the call to defend the country we all 
love, and we must be unified as Americans.
  My fellow Americans, we must be ready to stand up again and again and 
answer the call when our Nation is under attack and threatened by a 
tyrant. Together, the American people can fight petty disregard for law 
and order, the data-driven divisiveness, and media manipulation to 
defend the country we love.
  To do so, we must be ready and we must be together.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



