

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1697-H1698]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DAVIDSON:
       H.R. 5323. A bill to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
     Reform and Consumer Protection Act to establish an exemption 
     from the credit valuation adjustment calculation for 
     uncleared derivatives transactions with end-users so that 
     United States companies are not disadvantaged, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. FERGUSON:
       H.R. 5324. A bill to improve school safety and mental 
     health services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 5325. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     reauthorize regional economic and infrastructure development 
     programs; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself and Mr. Hunter):
       H.R. 5326. A bill to amend titles 14 and 46, United States 
     Code, to make technical corrections with respect to Coast 
     Guard and shipping authorities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, 
             Mr. Bucshon, and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico):
       H.R. 5327. A bill to amend title V of the Public Health 
     Service Act to establish a

[[Page H1698]]

     grant program to create comprehensive opioid recovery 
     centers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. BORDALLO:
       H.R. 5328. A bill to authorize the return of surplus 
     property, including Federal land, to the government of Guam, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committees on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and Armed Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Barton, and Ms. DeGette):
       H.R. 5329. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize and enhance the poison center national toll-free 
     number, national media campaign, and grant program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE:
       H.R. 5330. A bill to provide for the imposition of 
     sanctions on persons who are officials of the Government of 
     Iran or persons acting on behalf of that Government who are 
     responsible for or complicit in human rights abuses committed 
     against citizens of the United States or United States legal 
     permanent resident aliens; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, 
     Ways and Means, and Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ESHOO:
       H.R. 5331. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to provide for additional disclosure requirements with 
     respect to content from registered foreign agents; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself and Mrs. Handel):
       H.R. 5332. A bill to improve school safety; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Gene Green 
             of Texas, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Guthrie, and Mrs. 
             Dingell):
       H.R. 5333. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to clarify the regulatory framework with respect 
     to certain nonprescription drugs that are marketed without an 
     approved new drug application, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MOULTON (for himself and Ms. Tsongas):
       H.R. 5334. A bill to repeal the funding authorization 
     sunset and the total funding cap for the Essex National 
     Heritage Area; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, and 
             Mr. Nadler):
       H.R. 5335. A bill to make technical amendments to update 
     statutory references to provisions reclassified to title 34, 
     United States Code; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TONKO:
       H. Res. 788. A resolution expressing the profound sorrow of 
     the House of Representatives on the death of the Honorable 
     Louise McIntosh Slaughter; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself and Mr. Lewis of 
             Minnesota):
       H. Res. 789. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of April 2018 as ``Second Chance Month''; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H. Res. 790. A resolution providing for the consideration 
     of the bill (H.R. 2193), a bill to grant States authority to 
     enforce State and local sales and use tax laws on remote 
     transactions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Rules.

                          ____________________



