

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S555-S556]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             HONORING DEPUTY MARSHAL CHRISTOPHER DAVID HILL

  Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I want to spend a couple of moments 
tonight--I know the hour is late for the Senate and people working 
here, but I want to end the night with a message about a law 
enforcement official in Pennsylvania whose memorial service I attended 
on Friday. This individual was a deputy marshal. His name is 
Christopher David Hill. He lost his life on January 18. He was living 
at the time in York, PA. He was killed in the line of duty in 
Harrisburg--not far from York--while attempting to apprehend a 
fugitive.
  I commend Deputy Marshal Hill for his service to the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania and his service to our Nation. He happened to be working 
in the Middle District of Pennsylvania, which meant he had 
responsibility for work through counties from the bottom of the State 
all the way up to Northeastern Pennsylvania, which is my home area.
  I offer our deepest condolences to his family. Law enforcement 
officers like Christopher Hill accept the special duty of protecting 
the rest of us and keeping our communities safe. I have to say that we 
often don't think about that in the context of Federal marshals who do 
critically important work every day of the week and are often in 
horrifically dangerous circumstances.
  In this case with Deputy Marshal Hill, the murderer was shooting from 
a higher position in a house. They didn't know this individual was in 
the house. He was shooting down at him. He had protective gear on. I 
won't give a full description because I am not qualified to do that, 
but the problem is the bullet came from a direction like this and 
entered his body from above and killed him even though he had 
protection on and all the proper protocols were followed. It was, in 
essence, a one-man ambush because they were trying to apprehend another 
individual on the floor below where the assailant was. That is the kind 
of danger Federal marshals face every day of the week, and sometimes we 
don't realize it.
  Chris and his loving family made the ultimate sacrifice for the 
Nation and for the people in Pennsylvania. For his bravery and the 
contribution of his family, who supported him, we are eternally 
grateful for that commitment to law enforcement and the country.
  Christopher David Hill was born in Sacramento, CA, but he was raised 
in Central Pennsylvania. He graduated from Warrior Run High School. He 
served his country as a Ranger in the U.S. Army, where he was assigned 
to the prestigious 3rd Battalion. While in the Army, Chris earned many 
awards, including the Army Commendation Medal.
  For the last 11 years, he served as a deputy U.S. marshal. He was a 
member of the agency's Special Operations Group, so-called SOG.
  At the memorial service, there were lots of references to that 
Special Operations Group because members of that group were there to 
not only pay tribute to him but to speak about his life, to speak about 
his service and to speak about his character and his bravery in very 
moving testimonials. The Special Operations Group is a specially 
trained and highly disciplined tactical unit.

[[Page S556]]

  In 2012, Chris served on a SOG assignment in Afghanistan, for which 
he was recognized with a Director's Distinguished Group Award.
  In 2014, he was instrumental in the capture of notorious cop killer 
Eric Frein. Eric Frein was the individual who killed a State police 
officer and also injured another State police officer. In this case, 
Chris commanded U.S. marshals, FBI agents, and State troopers in one of 
the largest rural manhunts in recent American history.
  Chris was known as a dedicated and extremely capable law enforcement 
officer, and his numerous awards are proof of that.
  During his time at the Marshals Service, he received the FLETC 
Director's Leadership Award, a Special Act Award for Distinguished 300 
Shooter, and a Special Act Award for achieving 95 percent weapons 
proficiency.
  Christopher was described as the person you wanted to go through the 
door with, someone on whom you could completely rely. He was also known 
for his sense of humor and his positive outlook on life.
  Outside of work, he enjoyed hunting and golfing with his friends and 
family, but most of all, Chris is known for his devotion to his family. 
Chris is survived by his devoted wife Sylvia, his loving son and 
daughter Travis and Ashlynn, his father John, his brother Joey, his 
sister-in-law Michala, and his sister Melinda. He was preceded in death 
by his mother Katherine.
  As I mentioned before, on January 18, he was shot and killed in the 
line of duty. The U.S. Marshals Service apprehends approximately 
100,000 fugitives every year--100,000 every year--including the worst 
of the worst, violent felons whose capture makes our communities safer.
  Also shot in this altercation were Kyle Pitts, a New York City police 
officer, and a Harrisburg police officer who took a bullet to his 
ballistic vest but was not injured. We are praying for Kyle Pitts' full 
recovery.
  Last week, I joined law enforcement officers from around the country 
for the memorial service, as I mentioned. You could tell how Chris was 
loved and respected by the testimonials from those law enforcement 
officials. You can't see it from a distance, but this is a program from 
the memorial service. It has a list of those who spoke--I will not read 
all of them--and then it has Chris's biography, with a picture of him 
on the back.
  I could go through virtually every name of the ones who spoke in 
tribute to Chris--friends of his who worked with him. I am not sure I 
have ever been to a more emotional and moving ceremony in my life, 
where you had speak from the podium, one after another, these dedicated 
law enforcement professionals who are as tough and as determined as any 
man can be. Each person was very, very emotional, overcome with emotion 
in some cases. I am not sure I will ever be at a ceremony that is as 
moving.
  On a night like tonight, when we have a lot of debates and a lot of 
arguments on a range of issues, these are times we can come together to 
express not only condolences, not only tribute and appreciation but 
express, I think, what is the solidarity of our State and the Nation in 
paying tribute to a fallen law enforcement official.
  My colleague Senator Toomey and I were there together. There were 
also people from across the State who were there and Federal judges who 
serve in that district and Federal employees who worked with 
Christopher Hill. For so many reasons, we want to pay tribute to him 
tonight and express gratitude for his life of service and the 
commitment he made to the country, that he made to the Marshals 
Service, and that he made to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
  We want to express our condolences to his wife Sylvia, to his family, 
and his children because of the dedicated way they supported him 
through all his years as a Federal marshal and as a law enforcement 
official.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



