

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1452-S1454]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 188

  At the request of Mr. Heller, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
188, a bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds for the costs of 
painting portraits of officers and employees of the Federal Government.


                                 S. 207

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 207, a bill to 
amend the Controlled Substances Act relating to controlled substance 
analogues.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to provide 
immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose potential 
examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and accelerate 
development and availability, of promising childhood cancer treatments, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry 
to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 477

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 477, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to coordinate Federal congenital heart 
disease research and surveillance efforts and to improve public 
education and awareness of congenital heart disease, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare 
coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of 
durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 677

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 677, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of the Interior to coordinate Federal and State 
permitting processes related to the construction of new surface water 
storage projects on lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture and to designate the 
Bureau of Reclamation as the lead agency for permit processing, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 915, a bill to amend title 
II of the Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension offset 
and windfall elimination provisions.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.

[[Page S1453]]

  



                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1091, a bill to 
establish a Federal Task Force to Support Grandparents Raising 
Grandchildren.


                                S. 1730

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. Grassley) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1730, a bill to implement policies to end 
preventable maternal, newborn, and child deaths globally.


                                S. 1764

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1764, a bill to extend the 
principle of federalism to State drug policy, provide access to medical 
marijuana, and enable research into the medicinal properties of 
marijuana.


                                S. 1767

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1767, a bill to reauthorize the 
farm to school program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1864

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1864, a bill to expand the 
use of open textbooks in order to achieve savings for students.


                                S. 1916

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1916, a bill to 
prohibit the possession or transfer of certain firearm accessories, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2127

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2127, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the United States 
merchant mariners of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
and vital service during World War II.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell) and the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current law regarding 
the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2146

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2146, a bill to extend the 
full Federal medical assistance percentage to urban Indian 
organizations.


                                S. 2235

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2235, a bill to 
establish a tiered hiring preference for members of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces.


                                S. 2278

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to improve health 
care in rural areas.


                                S. 2374

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2374, a bill to 
amend the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 
2012, including making changes to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for 
improved detection, prevention, and recovery of improper payments to 
deceased individuals, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2378

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2378, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide an exclusion from gross 
income for interest on certain small business loans.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2421, a bill to amend the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to 
provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and penalties for 
releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at farms.


                                S. 2470

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2470, a bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to prohibit the 
purchase of certain firearms by individuals under 21 years of age, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2471

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2471, a bill to amend title 18, United States 
Code, to improve the compassionate release process of the Bureau of 
Prisons, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2490

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2490, a bill to 
amend the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 to modify 
requirements related to mortgage disclosures.


                                S. 2495

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2495, a bill to reauthorize the grant program for 
school security in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
1968.


                                S. 2497

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), and the Senator 
from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were added as cosponsors of S. 2497, a bill to 
amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control 
Act to make improvements to certain defense and security assistance 
provisions and to authorize the appropriations of funds to Israel, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2498

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones), and the 
Senator from North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2498, a bill to reduce identity fraud.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent 
resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                              S. RES. 407

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 407, a resolution recognizing the critical 
work of human rights defenders in promoting human rights, the rule of 
law, democracy, and good governance.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2045

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2045 
intended to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, 
provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2046

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2046 intended to be 
proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2047

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. 
Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2047 intended to be 
proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2065

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2065 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.

[[Page S1454]]

  

                          ____________________



