

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S287-S288]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT

  Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, as an outsider to this process, one of the 
first realizations was that, as I got here, things don't always move in 
a linear fashion from point A to point B. Many times, the people who 
are trying to move an issue from point A to point B aren't interested 
in getting to point B.
  I would like to talk tonight about one of those issues. I think we 
have a situation here where both sides in this body--and I dare say in 
the House--pretty much want the same thing, but

[[Page S288]]

I am afraid politics have gotten involved to where we are focusing more 
on the differences of what we might hope for than on what we agree 
upon. That is a shame because not only do we put a great confusion on 
these issues that I will talk about tonight, but we lose the confidence 
of the American people that we can even govern up here.
  Last year, this President wanted to focus on getting the economy 
going. He wanted to focus on energy. He wanted to focus on regulations. 
He wanted to focus on taxes. Check the boxes. We did that. I believe we 
are seeing some of the early manifestations of that in the economy now, 
where 123 businesses just announced at the end of the year, year-end 
bonuses related to this tax bill that we passed last year. That is an 
example of where we can get together and make things happen.
  I was in the Chair last night presiding over an hour and listening to 
conversations about a topic that I believe is very critical to where we 
are today. I heard several descriptions of a DACA bill but a bill no 
one has seen yet. It hasn't been presented. This is merely 1 day before 
we have to fund the government--before midnight tomorrow night.
  In my opinion, I think most people in America believe it is 
irresponsible that Members of this body are threatening to shut down 
the Federal Government over this DACA issue.
  Members of the other side of the aisle used to agree with that 
position. In 2013, the current minority leader said--and other people 
talked about this today: ``We could say, `we're shutting down the 
government . . . until you pass immigration reform.' It would be 
governmental chaos.''
  Well, that is what we are facing tonight. I just don't think there is 
any need for it because, honestly, if you want to solve the DACA 
situation, there is a deal to be done, but serious negotiations aren't 
being made right now because one side wants to create this issue and 
threaten to shut down the government, thinking they can get both, a 
financing deal that they favor, along with this DACA proposition. That 
is unfortunate.
  Our men and women in uniform deserve better than that. You are an ex-
officer. You know what I am saying. It is absolutely ridiculous that we 
are in the fourth month of this fiscal year in the middle of January--
our fiscal year started October 1. It is absolutely ridiculous that we 
are sitting here today having not funded the government permanently for 
the balance of this year. No other entity that I know of anywhere--any 
business or any facet of operation--can do that except the U.S. Federal 
Government.
  These two issues we are talking about have nothing to do with it and 
should not be tied together; that is, the DACA solution and funding the 
Federal Government. Given our global security crisis--and I do mean the 
word ``crisis'' today--I think the world is more dangerous than any 
time in my lifetime. I can't think of anything worse than to tie up the 
funding for our men and women in uniform with an issue like this; that 
we all want to solve anyway.
  I am shocked the Democrats would advocate that we shut down the 
government over a bill no one has even seen yet and an issue that has 
nothing to do with getting the government funded. Creating a false 
deadline for a DACA solution, I believe--and using it to hold military 
certainty hostage--is no way to govern. I think most people back home 
agree with that. That is what is wrong with this institution today. 
Both sides need to stop it right now. We need to get to a vote and fund 
this government.

                          ____________________



