

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H480]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        STANDING FOR THE UNBORN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, this Friday, more than 
100,000 Americans will travel from across the country to take part in 
the world's largest pro-life event right here in the Nation's Capital.
  The theme for the 45th annual March for Life is ``Love Saves Lives.'' 
This embodies the true spirit and mission of the pro-life movement by 
enlisting the power of love to empower others to choose life.
  Since the Supreme Court issued a decision in Roe v. Wade, tens of 
millions of abortion procedures have been performed throughout the 
United States. Although consistent attempts to overturn this decision 
have fallen short over the past 4 decades, support for Federal pro-life 
policies has remained strong.
  We will witness this strength Friday when Americans from all corners 
of the country will march on Washington to highlight the progress of 
the pro-life movement and encourage strong support moving forward.
  President Trump will address the marchers from the Rose Garden and 
show his commitment to protecting the unborn. He is the first sitting 
U.S. President to address the event via satellite from the White House 
in the event's 45-year history.
  President Trump has remained steadfast in his commitment to advance 
pro-life policy. One of his first actions in 2017 was an executive 
order reinstating the Mexico City policy, which bars international 
nongovernmental organizations that perform or promote abortions from 
receiving funding from the U.S. Government. This action, first instated 
by President Reagan in 1984, helps ensure that taxpayer dollars are not 
used to fund abortions overseas.
  Members of this House also passed H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for 
Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017, just 1 day 
after President Trump reinstated the Mexico City policy. This bill made 
permanent some longstanding policies that prohibit the use of taxpayer 
dollars to fund abortion, such as the Hyde amendment.
  H.R. 7 also helps to ensure that health insurance companies remain 
accountable to consumers by requiring them to fully disclose whether or 
not their healthcare plans cover abortion services.
  Another pro-life victory that passed the House in October was H.R. 
36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. This bill outlaws 
abortions performed after the 20-week postfertilization period.
  I have consistently voted to prohibit late-term abortions and to 
protect the unborn, and I will continue to do so as long as I am 
serving in the House. We must always demonstrate a strong commitment to 
protecting the lives of the defenseless.
  The House will continue the fight this week. On Friday, we will vote 
on the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. This means that, 
in the case of a child born alive during an attempted abortion, that 
child must be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. If a 
baby born alive is left to die, the penalty can be up to 5 years in 
jail. I will certainly vote in support of this important legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, abortion is a tragedy not just because an innocent child 
died, but because of the lasting impact the abortion itself had on the 
mothers of those children.
  We continue to see efforts by the pro-life movement making an impact. 
Data shows that the annual number of abortions performed in this 
country is in decline, including my State of Pennsylvania. There are 
legislative efforts across the country to protect unborn children and 
provide assistance and hope to their mothers. These efforts are one of 
the keys to ending abortion in the U.S.
  Pro-life education is having an impact on our culture and in the 
lives of women facing unexpected pregnancies, but there is much still 
to be done. That is why I look forward to participating in the 45th 
annual March for Life, where we will redouble our commitment to 
protecting the sanctity of human life in all phases and conditions. 
Attendees will hear stories of love, courage, and victory through God's 
mercy and grace.
  Mr. Speaker, human life is sacred and, through education, love can 
protect the most vulnerable. The pro-life movement is a voice for the 
voiceless, and I am incredibly proud and honored to be a part of it.

                          ____________________



