

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1375]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  250TH ANNIVERSARY OF SANFORD, MAINE

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the city of 
Sanford, ME, on their 250th anniversary. As a southern Maine community, 
Sanford's residents have access to the countryside and a downtown area, 
while also being close to Maine's coastal communities. Sanford prides 
itself on being a business friendly community, and the economic growth 
council has promoted a plan for the future of business which includes 
greater development and revitalization of the city.
  On February 27, Sanford began their year of celebration with a kick-
off event in Central Park where residents had the opportunity to ice 
skate, drink hot chocolate, enjoy music performed by the high school 
chorus, and end the night with a fireworks show. The city has a year to 
celebrate this milestone and will do so through events focusing on 
community engagement and promotion of local business.
  In 1661, William Phillips purchased land from two Native American 
leaders which would be called Phillipstown. The land was first 
inhabited in 1739, and in 1768, the residents of Phillipstown received 
town status. The Governor of Massachusetts chose the name for the new 
town, as Maine was a province of Massachusetts at the time. The name 
``Sanford'' was chosen in honor of Peleg Sanford, the stepson of 
William Phillips, who served as Governor of Rhode Island. In Sanford, 
work in sawmills saw growth in the early 19th century, followed by 
development in agriculture and textiles. The establishment of Goodall 
Mills in the late 1860s attracted skilled workers from Canada and 
Europe. Looking forward to present day, Sanford achieved city status in 
January of 2013, making it the newest city in the State of Maine. Today 
Sanford is home to 21,000 residents that span residential areas and 
woodlands, including access to three different trail ways. In addition 
to enjoying the nature surrounding Sanford, the parks and recreation 
department also hosts a variety of events that meet the interests of 
all generations, including line-dancing, pickleball games, activities 
at the YMCA, and an annual Winterfest.
  For its 250th anniversary, Sanford is celebrating this milestone with 
the design of a new anniversary logo, the creation of a commemorative 
coin, and a communitywide promotion to support businesses in the city. 
With a history dating back to as early as 1661, the residents of 
Sanford have worked to develop and improve their community over time. 
This year the city will see the opening of a new combined high school 
and technical center designed to prepare students with the skills 
needed for the 21st century in area industries; the launch of a 50 MW 
solar array at the Seacoast Regional Airport which will be the largest 
solar project in Maine and the largest solar array on any airport in 
the United States; and the construction of SanfordNet Fiber, a 45-mile 
dark fiber extension to Maine's 3 Ring Binder high-speed internet 
system.
  I would like to congratulate and celebrate with the citizens of 
Sanford on its 250th anniversary. I wish the city continued success and 
look forward to seeing the celebration of this milestone throughout the 
year.

                          ____________________



