

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 53 (Thursday, March 29, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 53 (Thursday, March 29, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H3052]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. 
             Barragan, Ms. Bordallo, and Mr. Espaillat):
       H.R. 5416. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to establish a student loan forgiveness program for women who 
     are small business owners; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BABIN:
       H.R. 5417. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to issue or revise regulations enhancing flexibility in hours 
     of service requirements for drivers of certain property-
     carrying vehicles, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 5418. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out the Medical Surgical Prime Vendor 
     program using multiple prime vendors; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. COOPER (for himself and Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee):
       H.R. 5419. A bill to allow the Chief of the Army Corps of 
     Engineers to convey certain property to the City of 
     Nashville, Tennessee; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FASO:
       H.R. 5420. A bill to authorize the acquisition of land for 
     addition to the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt National 
     Historic Site in the State of New York, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 5421. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration to prohibit the use of leaded 
     fuel by aircraft operating within United States airspace; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, and Mrs. Noem):
       H.R. 5422. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the estate and generation-skipping transfer 
     taxes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania:
       H.J. Res. 131. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal 
     Communications Commission relating to ``Restoring Internet 
     Freedom''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself and Mrs. 
             Walorski):
       H. Res. 808. A resolution recognizing the life and legacy 
     of the first woman to achieve the rank of general in the 
     United States Military, Anna Mae Hays; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself and Mr. Cook):
       H. Res. 809. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



