

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1790-S1792]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 281

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 281, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the per-country numerical 
limitation for employment-based immigrants, to increase the per-country 
numerical limitation for family-sponsored immigrants, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a 
voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 487

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 487, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an exclusion for 
assistance provided to participants in certain veterinary student loan 
repayment or forgiveness programs.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare 
coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of 
durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 526

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 526, a bill to amend the 
Small Business Act to provide for expanded participation in the 
microloan program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 528

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 528, a bill to amend 
the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to provide leave because of 
the death of a son or daughter.


                                 S. 781

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 781, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to limit the liability of health 
care professionals who volunteer to provide health care services in 
response to a disaster.


                                S. 1016

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1016, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to expand access to telehealth services, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1022

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1022, a bill to amend 
the Public Health Service Act to facilitate assignment of military 
trauma care providers to civilian trauma centers in order to maintain 
military trauma readiness and to support such centers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1091, a bill to 
establish a Federal Task Force to Support Grandparents Raising 
Grandchildren.

[[Page S1791]]

  



                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren) were added as cosponsors of S. 1112, a bill to support States 
in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers during 
pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to eliminate 
disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related and 
pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve health 
care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1152

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1152, a bill to create 
protections for depository institutions that provide financial services 
to cannabis-related businesses, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1158, a bill to help prevent acts 
of genocide and other atrocity crimes, which threaten national and 
international security, by enhancing United States Government 
capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises.


                                S. 1161

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1161, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to eliminate copayments by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for medicines relating to preventative 
health services, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1276

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1276, a bill 
to require the Attorney General to make a determination as to whether 
cannabidiol should be a controlled substance and listed in a schedule 
under the Controlled Substances Act and to expand research on the 
potential medical benefits of cannabidiol and other marihuana 
components.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1613

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1613, a bill to amend 
the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to modernize the funding 
of wildlife conservation, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 2006

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2006, a bill 
to require breast density reporting to physicians and patients by 
facilities that perform mammograms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2076, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of activities 
related to Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain health 
under the Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2135, a bill to enforce 
current law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check 
System.


                                S. 2155

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide tailored regulatory 
relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2208

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2208, a bill to 
provide for the issuance of an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal 
Stamp.


                                S. 2245

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2245, a bill to include New 
Zealand in the list of foreign states whose nationals are eligible for 
admission into the United States as E-1 and E-2 nonimmigrants if United 
States nationals are treated similarly by the Government of New 
Zealand.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2271, a bill to 
reauthorize the Museum and Library Services Act.


                                S. 2283

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2283, a bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
strengthen the Office of Credit Risk Management within the Small 
Business Administration, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2334

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2334, a bill to amend title 17, United States 
Code, to provide clarity with respect to, and to modernize, the 
licensing system for musical works under section 115 of that title, to 
ensure fairness in the establishment of certain rates and fees under 
sections 114 and 115 of that title, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2383

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2383, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to improve law enforcement access to data 
stored across borders, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2416

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo), the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2416, a bill to amend titles 5, 10, and 
37, United States Code, to ensure that an order to serve on active duty 
under section 12304b of title 10, United States Code, is treated the 
same as other orders to serve on active duty for determining the 
eligibility of members of the uniformed services for certain benefits.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2421, a bill to 
amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 to provide an exemption from certain notice 
requirements and penalties for releases of hazardous substances from 
animal waste at farms.


                                S. 2495

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) and the 
Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2495, a bill to reauthorize the grant program for school security in 
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968.


                                S. 2524

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2524, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize a loan repayment 
program for substance use disorder treatment employees, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2529

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2529, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reduce the applicable percentage under 
the premium assistance tax credit for households with young adults.

[[Page S1792]]

  



                                S. 2553

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from 
Kentucky (Mr. Paul) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2553, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to prohibit health plans and pharmacy benefit managers 
from restricting pharmacies from informing individuals regarding the 
prices for certain drugs and biologicals.


                                S. 2556

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2556, a bill to 
direct the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
promulgate regulations to prohibit the storage of live animals in 
overhead compartments of airplanes.


                                S. 2564

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2564, a bill to amend title 11, 
United States Code, to promote the investigation of fraudulent claims 
against certain trusts, to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
provide penalties against fraudulent claims against certain trusts, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2565

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2565, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to require the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to provide child care assistance to veterans receiving 
certain training or vocational rehabilitation, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were 
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 54, a joint resolution to direct the 
removal of United States Armed Forces from hostilities in the Republic 
of Yemen that have not been authorized by Congress.


                              S. RES. 424

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 424, a resolution 
honoring the 25th anniversary of the National Guard Youth Challenge 
Program.


                              S. RES. 432

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Rubio), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator 
from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator 
from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 432, 
a resolution congratulating the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and 
Lithuania on the 100th anniversary of their declarations of 
independence.

                          ____________________



