

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H482-H483]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           PASS THE DREAM ACT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Taylor). The Chair recognizes the 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. Eshoo) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the 800,000 
DREAMers, including the 200,000 from my home State of California.
  Mr. Speaker, these young people are terrified about what will become 
of them if Congress doesn't live up to its promise to protect them.
  There is a way to resolve this. There is a way. Congress can pass the 
Dream Act, which restores protection for the DREAMers. The act provides 
for undocumented American students who graduate from American high 
schools, who are of good moral character, have arrived in the United 
States as children, and have been in the country continuously for 4 
years the opportunity to earn conditional permanent residency for 8 
years.

                              {time}  1030

  That seems absolutely fair to me, and I think to so many others. Now, 
during that time, the student must pursue higher education, serve in 
the military, or work lawfully for at least 3 years.
  Students who meet these conditions are granted permanent residency 
and the ability to one day become U.S. citizens. This is not a handout. 
This is not a grab by unworthy people. These are very high standards, 
and I think standards that U.S. citizens should meet day in and day out 
and don't always meet these standards, most frankly.
  This is bipartisan legislation. It is supported by the faith 
community across our country, by businesses, by law enforcement, and by 
82 percent of the American people. I think that that passes a very high 
standard, a very high test, and I am confident that, if the Speaker of 
the House would allow a vote on this legislation, it would pass today 
if it were brought to the floor of the House for a vote.

[[Page H483]]

  These 800,000 young men and women are not just court cases or 
statistics. Each of them has a spark of divinity in them. They are 
young men and young women who have obtained driver's licenses. They 
have work permits. They have pursued higher education. They are 
contributing their talents, their heart and soul, to this country.
  Many say: Tell them to go home. They are home. This is the only 
country they know. This is the country that they love. They are serving 
in our military. In my congressional district, Silicon Valley, where 
all Members of Congress want to go and visit and see what innovation is 
happening, what innovation is bringing about, the majority of those 
geniuses who are producing this innovation are immigrants to our 
country.
  I stand here as a first-generation American. And if the tenor of some 
in Congress--not all--but some in Congress--certainly the White House--
were in charge when my parents were children, that boat would have had 
to have made a U-turn. They would not have been welcome in America 
because they weren't from Norway. They were from the Middle East. Yet, 
today, their daughter stands here on the floor of the House to address 
the House and the people of our Nation.
  Our Nation, from its beginnings, was built by immigrants. I stand 
here today to say I love immigrants. They are the backbone of each 
generation and really the blood that flows through the veins of 
America. If you put a clamp on that vein, you stop the heart of America 
from beating.
  Shortly after President Trump terminated the DACA program, Pope 
Francis said: ``To all people''--of the United States--``I ask: take 
care of the migrant who is a promise of life for the future.''
  Please follow his words, Mr. Speaker and Members of the House, and we 
will be a better nation because of it.

                          ____________________



