

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1738]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I have 12 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 9:30 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


         The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, 
at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Rebuilding Infrastructure 
in America: Investing in Next Generation Broadband.''


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``The Agriculture Creates Real 
Employment (ACRE) Act.''


        The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, 
at 4:05 p.m. to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: John F. 
Ring, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Labor 
Relations Board, Frank T. Brogan, of Pennsylvania, to be Assistant 
Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, and Mark Schneider, 
of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Institute of 
Education Science, both of the Department of Education, Marco M. 
Rajkovich, Jr., of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Review Commission, and other pending nominations.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 2:30 p.m to 
conduct a hearing entitled, ``Opioids in Indian Country: Beyond the 
Crisis to Healing the Community.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``See Something, Say Something, Oversight of 
the Parkland Shooting and Legislative Proposals to Improve School 
Safety.''


            Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, 
after the first vote to conduct a hearing on S. 526, to amend the Small 
Business Act to provide for expanded participation in the microloan 
program, S. 791, to amend the Small Business Act to expand intellectual 
property education and training for small businesses, S. 1538, to amend 
the Small Business Act to establish awareness of, and technical 
assistance for, the creation of employee stock ownership plans, S. 
1961, to amend the Small Business Act to temporarily reauthorize 
certain pilot programs under the Small Business Innovation Research 
Program and the Small Business Technology Transfer Program, S. 1995, to 
amend the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to improve the number 
of small business investment companies in underlicensed States, S. 
2283, to amend the Small Business Act to strengthen the Office of 
Credit Risk Management within the Small Business Administration, S. 
2419, to amend the Small Business Act to improve the technical and 
business assistance services under the SBIR and STTR programs, S. 2527, 
to amend the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to increase the 
amount of leverage made available to small business investment 
companies, and the nominations of David Christian Tryon, of Ohio, to be 
Chief Counsel for Advocacy, and Hannibal Ware, of the Virgin Islands, 
to be Inspector General, both of the Small Business Administration.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a joint hearing.


   Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pension Plans

  The Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pension Plans 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
March 14, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing.


                    Subcommittee on Strategic Force

  The Subcommittee on Strategic Force of the Committee on Armed 
Services is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing.


            Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health Policy

  The Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health Policy of the Committee 
on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing 
entitled, ``Somalia's Current Security and Stability Status.''


 Subcommittee on Multilateral International Development, Multilateral 
  Institutions, and International Economic, Energy and Environmental 
                                 Policy

  The Subcommittee on Multilateral International Development, 
Multilateral Institutions, and International Economic, Energy and 
Environmental Policy of the Committee on Foreign Relations is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
14, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``Why Food 
Security Matters.''

                          ____________________



