

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S141-S142]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  REQUIRING THE COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES TO CONDUCT A 
                       STUDY AND SUBMIT A REPORT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 282, S. 875.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the bill by title.

[[Page S142]]

  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 875) to require the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to conduct a study and submit a report on 
     filing requirements under the Universal Service Fund 
     programs.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill, 
which had been reported from the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation, with an amendment to strike all after the enacting 
clause and insert in lieu thereof the following:

     SECTION 1. STUDY AND REPORT ON FILING REQUIREMENTS UNDER 
                   UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND PROGRAMS.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``Administrative Procedure Act'' means 
     subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code;
       (2) the term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
     Communications Commission;
       (3) the term ``covered carrier'' means an eligible 
     telecommunications carrier or service provider that receives 
     universal service support under sections 214(e) and 254 of 
     the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 214(e) and 254) for 
     the provision of service under a Universal Service Fund 
     program; and
       (4) the term ``Universal Service Fund program'' means each 
     program of the Commission set forth under part 54 of title 
     47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto, 
     including--
       (A) the Connect America Fund set forth under subpart D of 
     that part;
       (B) the Lifeline program set forth under subpart E of that 
     part;
       (C) the E-Rate program set forth under subpart F of that 
     part;
       (D) the Rural Health Care program set forth under subpart G 
     of that part;
       (E) the Remote Areas Fund set forth under subpart J of that 
     part;
       (F) the Connect America Fund Broadband Loop Support program 
     set forth under subpart K of that part;
       (G) the Mobility Fund set forth under subpart L of that 
     part; and
       (H) the High Cost Loop Support for Rate-of-Return Carriers 
     program set forth under subpart M of that part.
       (b) Study and Report.--Not later than 18 months after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall conduct a study and submit to the 
     Commission, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce of the House of Representatives a report, which 
     shall include--
       (1) an analysis of the filing requirements for covered 
     carriers participating in a Universal Service Fund program, 
     including any filings required by the Universal Service 
     Administrative Company;
       (2) an analysis of the financial impact of those filing 
     requirements on covered carriers participating in a Universal 
     Service Fund program; and
       (3) recommendations, if any, on how to consolidate 
     redundant filing requirements for covered carriers 
     participating in a Universal Service Fund program.
       (c) Rulemaking.--
       (1) New or ongoing rulemaking.--Except as provided in 
     paragraph (3), not later than 60 days after the date on which 
     the report is submitted under subsection (b), the Commission 
     shall--
       (A)(i) initiate a rulemaking to consolidate redundant 
     filing requirements for covered carriers participating in a 
     Universal Service Fund program; and
       (ii) incorporate into the rulemaking under clause (i), and 
     as part of that rulemaking seek comment on, the 
     recommendations described in subsection (b)(3), if any, 
     except to the extent that doing so would violate the 
     requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act; or
       (B) incorporate into an ongoing rulemaking relating to 
     consolidating redundant filing requirements of the 
     Commission, and as part of that rulemaking seek comment on, 
     the recommendations described in subsection (b)(3), if any, 
     except to the extent that doing so would violate the 
     requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act.
       (2) Waste, fraud, and abuse.--In a rulemaking in which the 
     Commission is required under paragraph (1) to seek comment on 
     the recommendations described in subsection (b)(3), if any, 
     the Commission shall also seek comment on and consider 
     whether the benefit of each recommendation is outweighed by 
     any potential increased risk of waste, fraud, and abuse in 
     the Universal Service Fund program affected by the 
     recommendation.
       (3) Previous rulemaking.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply if, 
     on or before the date on which the report is submitted under 
     subsection (b), the Commission completes a rulemaking to 
     consolidate redundant filing requirements for covered 
     carriers participating in a Universal Service Fund program.

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
committee-reported substitute amendment be agreed to, the bill, as 
amended, be considered read a third time and passed, and the motion to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The committee-reported amendment in the nature of a substitute was 
agreed to.
  The bill (S. 875), as amended, was ordered to be engrossed for a 
third reading, was read the third time, and passed.

                          ____________________



