

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S602-S603]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO JO MARSHALL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to congratulate my friend 
Dr. Jo Marshall, president and CEO of the Somerset Community College, 
SCC, on her upcoming retirement. Taking over the helm of the school in 
Somerset, KY, in 2000, Jo has led the school through its unprecedented 
growth. When she leaves SCC at the end of June, she will leave behind a 
legacy of innovation, achievement, and inspiration.
  Originally from Alabama, Jo worked as the vice president and dean at 
Chattahoochee Valley Community College before moving to Somerset with 
her husband, Scott, to accept the position as president and CEO of SCC. 
After he retired from the Alabama college system, Scott taught 
economics at Eastern Kentucky University until he passed away in 2011.
  The Kentucky Community and Technical College System, KCTCS, operates 
16 colleges, including SCC, serving nearly 80,000 students throughout 
Kentucky. Under Jo's leadership, SCC has become one of the preeminent 
members of KCTCS and one of the fastest growing community colleges in 
the Nation. Many of the students who graduate from SCC go on to make 
important contributions to their community and the economy.
  The school, founded in 1965, has grown exponentially during Jo's 
presidency. She oversaw SCC's merger with the Somerset Technical 
College and the Laurel Technical College in 2003, expanding the number 
of programs offered to SCC's students. Under Jo's leadership, SCC also 
saw its largest enrollment in the school's history. To facilitate this 
growth, Jo oversaw the addition of seven new buildings to the 
institution. Further, she helped launch a scholarship foundation to 
help students of diverse economic backgrounds attend SCC to earn 
degrees or credentials with the goal of preparing them for successful 
careers. During a time of economic hardship for many Kentuckians, this 
was an important accomplishment in the region. Today that scholarship 
foundation is worth nearly $1 million. These are just a few examples of 
what will make Jo's legacy at SCC a lasting one. By any measure, each 
of these notable accomplishments under her leadership improved SCC, its 
reputation, and its impact on students.
  In addition to her commitment to growing SCC as an institution and 
enhancing its impact on its students and the region, Jo has also worked 
to support SCC students by providing them with the tools they need to 
succeed upon graduation. For example, working with local business 
leaders, she has established various programs to help students find 
good-paying, high-demand jobs by offering short-term certificates and 
diploma options. For SCC students wishing to continue their education, 
Jo has also worked with 4-year colleges and universities throughout 
Kentucky to help expand opportunities for students who wish to complete 
a bachelor's degree.
  Because of her leadership, and the efforts of everyone involved at 
the school, SCC consistently has won a number of awards. SCC was named 
a Military Friendly School, and the Chronicle of Higher Education named 
it a Great College to Work For. In addition, SCC was called a Best 
Place to Work in Kentucky by the Best Companies Group every year for a 
decade. Finally, the Aspen Institute's College Excellence Program, 
which ``aims to advance higher education practices, policies, and 
leadership'' in an effort to help schools improve student outcomes, has 
also named SCC a Top 120 Community College in the United States. These 
national accolades for SCC under Jo's leadership showcase her passion 
for SCC, its faculty and students, and the community.
  It would also come as no surprise to those of us who know Jo and her 
work that she has been the recipient of many well-earned awards as a 
result of her time at SCC. In 2011, the Somerset-Pulaski County Chamber 
of Commerce named her its Business Woman of the Year. She received the 
Master Musician's Festival Lifetime Achievement Award in 2015, and the 
Somerset Business and Professional Women's Club named Jo the Business 
Woman of the Year in 2017.
  In addition to her transformational work at SCC, Jo has also 
dedicated her talents to the Southeastern Kentucky community in other 
ways. She currently serves on the board of directors for the Center for 
Rural Development and the Southern Kentucky Economic Development 
Corporation. Jo is also a former member of the Lake Cumberland Regional 
Hospital board of trustees.
  Her community college peers have recognized her outstanding success 
at SCC. Phi Theta Kappa, one of the largest and most prestigious honor 
societies for community colleges, established the Marshall Leadership 
Award in 2013. Named in Jo's honor, the international award is given to 
Phi Theta Kappa advisors to boost their professional growth beyond the 
completion of professional degrees.
  On a more personal note, I have always enjoyed being in Somerset and 
getting to visit with Jo in her position as president of SCC. In 2015, 
I had the privilege of participating in the school's ``John Sherman 
Cooper Lecture Series,'' an annual reflection on

[[Page S603]]

the accomplishments and character of my role model, Senator Cooper. 
Like each of my meetings with Jo during her time leading SCC, I truly 
enjoyed this experience.
  In her retirement, I know that Jo looks forward to spending more time 
with her children, Kristin and Scott, Jr., both accomplished in their 
own right, and her five grandchildren. She has certainly earned it. I 
would like to take this opportunity to thank my friend for her work to 
help prepare the students of southeastern Kentucky to enter the 
workforce and thrive. I am sure that SCC will miss her steady hand. 
However, the wide breath of accomplishments she oversaw throughout the 
last 18 years has set the school on a course of continued success. I 
know her community is grateful for her work, and I urge my Senate 
colleagues to join me in celebrating Jo's stellar career.

                          ____________________



