

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1661-H1663]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1600
             DHS CYBER INCIDENT RESPONSE TEAMS ACT OF 2018

  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 5074) to authorize cyber incident response teams at the 
Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 5074

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``DHS Cyber Incident Response 
     Teams Act of 2018''.

     SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY CYBER INCIDENT 
                   RESPONSE TEAMS.

       (a) In General.--Section 227 of the Homeland Security Act 
     of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 148) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (d)(1)(B)(iv), by inserting ``, including 
     cybersecurity specialists'' after ``entities'';
       (2) by redesignating subsections (f) through (m) as 
     subsections (g) through (n), respectively; and
       (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
     subsection (f):
       ``(f) Cyber Incident Response Teams.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Center shall maintain cyber hunt and 
     incident response teams for the purpose of providing, as 
     appropriate and upon request, assistance, including the 
     following:
       ``(A) Assistance to asset owners and operators in restoring 
     services following a cyber incident.
       ``(B) The identification of cybersecurity risk and 
     unauthorized cyber activity.
       ``(C) Mitigation strategies to prevent, deter, and protect 
     against cybersecurity risks.
       ``(D) Recommendations to asset owners and operators for 
     improving overall network and control systems security to 
     lower cybersecurity risks, and other recommendations, as 
     appropriate.
       ``(E) Such other capabilities as the Under Secretary 
     appointed under section 103(a)(1)(H) determines appropriate.
       ``(2) Cybersecurity specialists.--The Secretary may include 
     cybersecurity specialists from the private sector on cyber 
     hunt and incident response teams.
       ``(3) Associated metrics.--The Center shall continually 
     assess and evaluate the cyber incident response teams and 
     their operations using robust metrics.
       ``(4) Submittal of information to congress.--Upon the 
     conclusion of each of the first four fiscal years ending 
     after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the 
     Center shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of 
     the House of Representatives and the Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs Committee of the Senate, information on 
     the metrics used for evaluation and assessment of the cyber 
     incident response teams and operations pursuant to paragraph 
     (3), including the resources and staffing of such cyber 
     incident response teams. Such information shall include each 
     of the following for the period covered by the report:
       ``(A) The total number of incident response requests 
     received.
       ``(B) The number of incident response tickets opened.
       ``(C) All interagency staffing of incident response teams.
       ``(D) The interagency collaborations established to support 
     incident response teams.''; and
       (4) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, or any team or 
     activity of the Center,'' after ``Center''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, or any team or 
     activity of the Center,'' after ``Center''.
       (b) No Additional Funds Authorized.--No additional funds 
     are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the 
     requirements of this Act and the amendments made by this Act. 
     Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts 
     otherwise authorized to be appropriated.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. McCaul) and the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr. Thompson) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.


                             General Leave

  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the DHS Cyber Incident 
Response Teams Act.
  Before I discuss the bill, however, I would like to say a few words 
about the recent bombings in my hometown of Austin. In the past month, 
there have been a total of four bombings that have killed two people 
and injured four others. These are heinous, hateful acts on innocent 
Americans, and they will not be tolerated.
  I know the people of Austin very well, and they will not be 
intimidated. I urge everyone back home to take caution and heed the 
warnings of local law enforcement. We will find whoever is responsible 
for these bombings and bring them to justice.

[[Page H1662]]

  Mr. Speaker, I would like to now address the bill I have introduced 
and the threats confronting our cybersecurity.
  As technology advances, more and more people are relying on their 
computers, iPads, and smartphones for both personal and professional 
use. In short, Mr. Speaker, everyone is a target.
  But our enemies do not just attack individuals and their devices. 
They also put America's critical infrastructure sectors in their 
crosshairs, endangering all aspects of civilian life. These sectors 
include our financial services, healthcare systems, dams, and our 
energy production, among others. All of them play a vital role in 
making America work, and each one is vulnerable to an attack.
  Last week, the FBI and DHS reported that Russian hackers had 
engineered a series of cyber attacks against American and European 
nuclear power plants and electric systems. Crippling or shutting down 
our power plants would have catastrophic effects.
  We also know that Russia tried to undermine the credibility of our 
democratic system in the 2016 elections and are likely to try again in 
2018. Strengthening our cyber election security needs to be a 
bipartisan priority.
  Russia is not the only perpetrator of these kinds of attacks. Between 
2011 and 2013, Iranian hackers attacked dozens of U.S. banks and even 
tried to shut down a dam in New York.
  In 2015, we learned that Chinese hackers gained access to the private 
information of 80 million members and employees of Anthem healthcare. 
The Chinese also stole 22 million security clearances, including my 
own, from OPM. This attack allowed them to obtain highly sensitive 
personal data, including fingerprints and Social Security numbers. 
These continual onslaughts are part of a greater cyber war being 
carried out against the United States, even as I stand here and speak.
  Unfortunately, it doesn't stop there. Our adversaries have weaponized 
technology and are using it to engage in espionage and to steal our 
intellectual property. This costs our economy hundreds of billions of 
dollars each year. In fact, former NSA Director, General Keith 
Alexander, described this theft as the ``greatest transfer of wealth in 
history.''
  We must do more to stop these attacks. That is why I have prioritized 
the cybersecurity mission of DHS as chairman of the Homeland Security 
Committee. Through CISA, the previous bill which passed the House in 
December, we are elevating and making operational the Department's 
cybersecurity and infrastructure protection missions.
  As part of the landmark DHS reauthorization, which passed the House 
in July, the Department will be required to provide volunteer 
assistance to State and local election officials upon request. These 
were important bipartisan steps, but we need to do more.
  The legislation before us today codifies and enhances the cyber 
incident response times at DHS. These teams shall provide, upon 
request, assistance to asset owners and operators following cyber 
incidents, including with election infrastructure.
  These teams may also include cybersecurity specialists from the 
private sector to provide outside expertise, which is a new, innovative 
breakthrough. By fostering this new collaboration between government 
and private sector, we can harness our talent and maximize our efforts 
to stay one step ahead of our enemies.
  This innovative approach serves as a force multiplier to enhance our 
cybersecurity workforce. Being able to utilize a great number of 
experts will strengthen our efforts to protect our cyber networks. My 
bill provides DHS with that necessary capability.
  The American people deserve to know that we are making every effort 
to strengthen our cybersecurity. This bill helps us achieve that goal, 
and I urge my colleagues to support it.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as 
I may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 5074, the DHS Cyber Incident Response Teams 
Act of 2018.
  Mr. Speaker, at the outset, let me again support the chairman's 
comments about Austin, Texas. We talked a little bit about it last week 
in a hearing and, since that hearing, another incident has occurred. 
Terrorism, whether it is domestic or whatever, has no place in this 
country. I look forward to the capture of the person or persons who are 
committing these heinous acts in Austin, as well as providing whatever 
resources might go toward any future apprehensions.
  Mr. Speaker, last week, the Department of Homeland Security issued a 
technical alert with the FBI on the Russian Government's efforts to use 
cyber tools to target our critical infrastructure--including our 
energy, water, aviation, and commercial facilities, critical 
infrastructure sectors.

  DHS and the FBI released the alert amidst ongoing discussions about 
the urgent need to better secure our election infrastructure against 
Russian targeting and as the sophisticated cyber capabilities of Iran, 
North Korea, China, and nonstate actors continue to evolve. H.R. 5074, 
the DHS Cyber Incident Response Teams Act of 2018, would codify DHS' 
Hunt and Incident Response Teams into law.
  The Department deploys Hunt and Incident Response Teams to owners and 
operators of critical infrastructure, upon request and free of charge 
after a cybersecurity incident. These DHS teams provide intrusion 
analysis, identify malicious actors, analyze malicious tools, and 
provide mitigation assistance strategies. They are DHS' ``boots on the 
ground'' in cyber incident response and, as such, play an integral role 
in improving the cybersecurity posture of critical infrastructure 
owners and operators.
  I urge my colleagues to support this measure.
  Mr. Speaker, the President's decision last week to finally issue 
sanctions in response to meddling in the 2016 election was long 
overdue. Though it was a positive move, I believe it will do little to 
deter the Russian Government from using cyber tools to target our 
critical infrastructure.
  The Trump administration has yet to put any meaningful strategy in 
place to address ongoing efforts by the Russian Government--or any 
other bad actor, for that matter--to undermine the stability of the 
U.S. economy and government infrastructure in cyberspace. We must 
ensure that organizations have access to high-quality cyber incident 
response capabilities. H.R. 5074 would do just that, and I urge my 
colleagues to support it.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, this is a hugely important issue. I think cyber often 
gets overlooked when we look at kinetic threats of nuclear missiles 
coming out of North Korea, which is obviously a huge threat to the 
United States and its allies. But in cyberspace, we are at war, as 
well, with countries like Russia and China and Iran and North Korea, 
the Russian meddling in the elections. We can't sit idly by and let 
that happen again in 2018.
  I think this is, as Mr. Thompson stated, a very bipartisan issue that 
we need to work together on against our foreign adversaries that every 
day are trying to undermine us, stealing intellectual property, 
espionage, or bringing down things in a cyber warfare attack. It is not 
the future of warfare; it is warfare here and now.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 5074, 
the DHS Cyber Incident Response Teams Act of 2018.
  The ``DHS Cyber Incident Response Teams Act of 2018,'' codifies DHS' 
National Cybersecurity and Communications Coordination Center (NCCIC) 
hunt and incident response teams which the Department currently deploys 
to provide intrusion analysis, identify malicious actors, analyze 
malicious tools, and provide mitigation assistance to entities 
requesting assistance after a cybersecurity incident.
  The DHS' Hunt and Incident Response Teams play an integral role in 
improving the cybersecurity posture of critical infrastructure owners 
and operators, from energy and nuclear power firms to state and local 
governments administering elections.
  The bill requires the NCCIC to submit information to Congress 
regarding metrics for the teams, at the conclusion of the first four 
years after enactment.
  In 2016, Russian actors targeted U.S. election infrastructure, 
hackers escalated efforts to

[[Page H1663]]

breach the domestic energy sector, and WannaCry and NotPetya ransomware 
wreaked havoc on public and private infrastructure around the world.
  According to Symantec, a leading provider of cybersecurity solutions, 
said that ``The world of cyber espionage experienced a notable shift 
towards more overt activity, designed to destabilize and disrupt 
targeted organizations and countries.''
  These threats to cyber security are not new.
  In June 2015, it was reported that the Office of Personnel Management 
lost personal information on 21.5 million current and former federal 
employees and their families.
  In 2017, the following were reported attacks and breaches:
  WannaCry ransomware that infected millions of networks worldwide; and 
the
  Equifax hack exposed millions of American's credit information to 
cyber-thieves;
  Our nation's critical infrastructure and civilian government agencies 
depend on the cybersecurity talent and resources that the Department of 
Homeland Security can provide on the frontline to defend against 
attacks.
  As cyber threats continue to evolve and become more sophisticated, so 
must U.S. efforts to confront them.
  The Department of Homeland Security plays a central role in the 
federal government's cybersecurity apparatus and in coordinating 
federal efforts to secure critical infrastructure.
  DHS is charged with coordinating agency efforts to secure the 
(dot).gov Domain, while also serving as the hub for cybersecurity 
information sharing between and among the private sector and federal 
government.
  Earlier this Congress, I introduced H.R. 3202, the Cyber 
Vulnerability Disclosure Reporting Act, which was passed by the full 
House and is now in the Senate.
  H.R. 3202 requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to submit a 
report on the policies and procedures developed for coordinating cyber 
vulnerability disclosures.
  The report will include an annex with information on instances in 
which cyber security vulnerability disclosure policies and procedures 
were used to disclose details on identified weaknesses in computing 
systems that or digital devices at risk.
  The report will provide information on the degree to which the 
information provided by DHS was used by industry and other 
stakeholders.
  The reason that I worked to bring this bill before the committee is 
the problem often referred to as a ``Zero Day Event,'' which describes 
the situation that network security professionals may find themselves 
when a previously unknown error in computing code is exploited by a 
cybercriminal or terrorist.
  As with other threats that this nation has faced and overcome, we 
must create the resources and the institutional responses to protect 
our nation against cyber threats while preserving our liberties and 
freedoms.
  We cannot accomplish this task without the full cooperation and 
support of the private sector, computing research community and 
academia.
  This level of engagement requires the trust and confidence of the 
American people that this new cyber threat center will be used for the 
purpose it was created and that the collaboration of others in this 
effort to better protect computing networks will be used only for 
protection and defense.
  There are people with skills and those with the potential to develop 
skills that would be of benefit to our nation's efforts to develop an 
effective cybersecurity defense and deterrence posture.
  It is my hope that as we move forward the Committee on Homeland 
Security will continue in a bipartisan manner to seek out the best ways 
to bring the brightest and most qualified people into the government as 
cybersecurity professionals.
  With this policy objective in mind, I look forward to working with 
the Committee on H.R. 1981, the Cyber Security Education and Federal 
Workforce Enhancement Act.
  I urge my Colleagues in the House to join me in voting for H.R. 5074.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. McCaul) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 5074, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



