

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S303]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, January 18, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Michael D. Griffin, of 
Alabama, to be Under Secretary for Research and Engineering, Phyllis L. 
Bayer, of Mississippi, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, and 
John Henderson, of South Dakota, and William Roper, of Georgia, each to 
be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, all of the Department of 
Defense.


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 18, 2018, at 
9:45 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``CFIUS Reform: Examining the 
essential elements.''


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 18, 2018, 
at 11 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Leon A. 
Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of 
Directors, Barry Lee Myers, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of 
Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, Diana Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, 
to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, Brendan Carr, of 
Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Communications Commission, 
James Bridenstine, of Oklahoma, to be Administrator of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, and Ann Marie Buerkle, of New 
York, to be a Commissioner, and to be Chairman, and Dana Baiocco, of 
Ohio, to be a Commissioner, both of the Consumer Product Safety 
Commission.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, January 18, 2018, at 2 p.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Samuel Dale Brownback, 
of Kansas, to be Ambassador at Large for International Religious 
Freedom, Richard Grenell, of California, to be Ambassador to the 
Federal Republic of Germany, Yleem D. S. Poblete, of Virginia, to be an 
Assistant Secretary (Verification and Compliance), James Randolph 
Evans, of Georgia, to be Ambassador to Luxembourg, Joel Danies, of 
Maryland, to be Ambassador to the Gabonese Republic, and to serve 
concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador to the 
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Carlos Trujillo, of 
Florida, to be Permanent Representative of the United States of America 
to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador, 
and routine lists in the Foreign Service, all of the Department of 
State.


               committee on energy and natural resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 18, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Melissa F. 
Burnison, of Kentucky, to be an Assistant Secretary (Congressional and 
Intergovernmental Affairs), and Anne Marie White, of Michigan, to be an 
Assistant Secretary (Environmental Management), both of the Department 
of Energy.


           committee on health, education, labor, and pension

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 18, 2018, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Reauthorizing the Higher 
Education Act: Financial Aid Simplification and Transparency.''


           committee on health, education, labor, and pension

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 18, 2018, 
at 12:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing subcommittee assignments and on the 
following nominations: Mitchell Zais, of South Carolina, to be Deputy 
Secretary, Kenneth L. Marcus, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary 
for Civil Rights, and James Blew, of California, to be Assistant 
Secretary for Planning, Evaluation, and Policy Development, all of the 
Department of Education, Patrick Pizzella, of Virginia, to be Deputy 
Secretary, Scott A. Mugno, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant 
Secretary, Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South Carolina, to be Administrator 
of the Wage and Hour Division, and William Beach, of Kansas, to be 
Commissioner of Labor Statistics, all of the Department of Labor, Brett 
Giroir, of Texas, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the 
Public Health Service, and to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, Barbara Stewart, of Illinois, to be Chief Executive 
Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service, and 
other pending nominations.

                          ____________________



