

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 43 (Monday, March 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 43 (Monday, March 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1630-S1632]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 283

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, her name was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 283, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for 
the treatment of veterans who participated in the cleanup of Enewetak 
Atoll as radiation exposed veterans for purposes of the presumption of 
service-connection of certain disabilities by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry 
to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Alabama (Mr. Jones) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 422, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to clarify presumptions relating to the exposure of certain 
veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic of Vietnam, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for physical 
activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical care.


                                 S. 498

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 498, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to require the Secretary of Defense to use only 
human-based methods for training members of the Armed Forces in the 
treatment of severe combat injuries, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and 
services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women 
veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 751, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use of 
amounts in a National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address 
the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 781

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 781, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to limit the liability of health care 
professionals who volunteer to provide health care services in response 
to a disaster.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for employer-
provided education assistance to employer payments of student loans.


                                 S. 811

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Montana (Mr. 
Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 811, a bill to ensure that 
organizations with religious or moral convictions are allowed to 
continue to provide services for children.


                                 S. 974

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski), the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator 
from Montana (Mr. Daines) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 974, a bill to promote competition in the 
market for drugs and biological products by facilitating the timely 
entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar versions of those drugs and 
biological products.


                                S. 1072

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1072, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the provision of services for homeless 
veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1112, a bill to support 
States in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers during 
pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to eliminate 
disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related and 
pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve health 
care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1292

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1292, a bill to amend the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to monitor and combat 
anti-Semitism globally, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1419

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1419, a bill to amend the 
Voting Rights Act of 1965 to revise the criteria for determining which 
States and political subdivisions are subject to section 4 of the Act, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1942

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1942, a bill 
to direct the Attorney General to review, revise, and develop law 
enforcement and justice protocols appropriate to address missing and 
murdered Indians, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1945, a bill to 
regulate large capacity ammunition feeding devices.


                                S. 1995

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1995, a bill to amend the 
Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to improve the number of small 
business investment companies in underlicensed States, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2006

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2006, a bill to 
require breast density reporting to physicians and patients by 
facilities that perform mammograms, and for other purposes.

[[Page S1631]]

  



                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2076, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
authorize the expansion of activities related to Alzheimer's disease, 
cognitive decline, and brain health under the Alzheimer's Disease and 
Healthy Aging Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), 
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith), the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) and the Senator from 
North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill 
to enforce current law regarding the National Instant Criminal 
Background Check System.


                                S. 2178

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2178, a bill to require 
the Council of Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency to make 
open recommendations of Inspectors General publicly available, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2208

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2208, a bill to provide 
for the issuance of an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal Stamp.


                                S. 2244

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2244, a bill to create 
opportunities for women in the aviation industry.


                                S. 2268

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2268, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to modify certain provisions relating to 
the capital financing of historically Black colleges and universities.


                                S. 2272

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2272, a bill to amend the Revised Statutes to grant 
State attorneys general the ability to issue subpoenas to investigate 
suspected violations of State laws that are applicable to national 
banks.


                                S. 2324

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2324, a bill to amend the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 to change certain requirements relating to the 
capital structure of business development companies, to direct the 
Securities and Exchange Commission to revise certain rules relating to 
business development companies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2416

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds), the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the 
Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) and the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) were added as cosponsors of S. 2416, a bill to amend titles 
5, 10, and 37, United States Code, to ensure that an order to serve on 
active duty under section 12304b of title 10, United States Code, is 
treated the same as other orders to serve on active duty for 
determining the eligibility of members of the uniformed services for 
certain benefits.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Jones) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2421, a bill to amend the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to 
provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and penalties for 
releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at farms.


                                S. 2455

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2455, a bill to 
encourage United States-Ukraine cybersecurity cooperation and require a 
report regarding such cooperation, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2461

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2461, a bill to 
allow for judicial review of certain final rules relating to national 
emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and 
structural clay products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before 
requiring compliance with the rules by existing sources.


                                S. 2488

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2488, a bill to amend title 37, United States 
Code, to exclude the receipt of basic allowance for housing for members 
of the Armed Forces in determining eligibility for certain Federal 
benefits, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2494

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2494, a bill to 
provide standards for short-term limited duration health insurance 
policies.


                                S. 2495

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator from 
North Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman), the 
Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan) were added as cosponsors of S. 2495, a bill to reauthorize 
the grant program for school security in the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968.


                                S. 2497

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), the 
Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from Washington (Ms. 
Cantwell) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2497, a bill to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 and the Arms Export Control Act to make improvements to certain 
defense and security assistance provisions and to authorize the 
appropriations of funds to Israel, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2507

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2507, a bill to require short-term limited duration 
insurance issuers to renew or continue in force such coverage at the 
option of the enrollees.


                                S. 2513

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from 
Kentucky (Mr. McConnell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2513, a bill to 
improve school safety and mental health services.


                              S. RES. 376

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 376, a resolution 
urging the Governments of Burma and Bangladesh to ensure the safe, 
dignified, voluntary, and sustainable return of the Rohingya refugees 
who have been displaced by the campaign of ethnic cleansing conducted 
by the Burmese military.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 377, a resolution 
recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those individuals who 
have faithfully served and retired from the Armed Forces of the United 
States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military Retiree Appreciation 
Day'', and encouraging the people of the United States to honor the 
past and continued service of military retirees to their local 
communities and the United States.


                              S. RES. 407

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 407, a resolution recognizing the 
critical work of human rights defenders in promoting human

[[Page S1632]]

rights, the rule of law, democracy, and good governance.


                              S. RES. 426

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), 
the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 426, a resolution supporting 
the goals of International Women's Day.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2047

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2047 intended to 
be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2133

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2133 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2139

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2139 intended to 
be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2179

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 2179 intended to be proposed 
to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide tailored 
regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2180

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 2180 intended to be proposed 
to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide tailored 
regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for other 
purposes.

                          ____________________



