

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2002-S2003]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        REMEMBERING ROBERT MADON

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I would like to join the citizens

[[Page S2003]]

of Pineville, KY, in remembering the life of Mayor Robert Madon. Bob, 
who led his community for nearly two decades, passed away earlier this 
year at the age of 83. Throughout his life of accomplishment for his 
hometown, Bob earned the affection of his neighbors and the gratitude 
of the people he served so well.
  Graduating from Pineville High School, Bob attended the Millersburg 
Military Institute before joining the U.S. Air Force to serve in Korea. 
Bob returned to Bell County after his military service and, like so 
many of his fellow veterans, was active in his local American Legion 
post and other civic organizations.
  One of the oldest traditions in southeastern Kentucky is the Mountain 
Laurel Festival. Named after the mountain laurel flower that commonly 
grows in Appalachia, the annual festival celebrates the region's 
heritage through concerts, carnivals, craft and talent shows, a parade, 
and a beauty pageant. This May, Pine Mountain State Park will host the 
88th annual festival. For many years, Bob was an integral part of the 
festival's success, as the general chairman in 1966 and serving on the 
advisory board from 1967 to 1972. The pinnacle of the festival's 
traditions is the selection of the Mountain Laurel Princess and the 
Mountain Laurel Queen. Young women from local high schools compete for 
the title of princess, and universities from throughout the 
Commonwealth send candidates seeking the queen's crown. Serving as its 
emcee, Bob was the voice of the festival and the contest for many 
years.
  One of Bob's friends remembers his passion for the Mountain Laurel 
Festival. ``He was everywhere making sure people were picking up debris 
from their yard, mowing the grass, painting the curbs, cleaning up the 
city.'' When Pineville was on display for visitors, Bob worked hard to 
help it shine. In 1995, the festival honored Bob by including him in 
its hall of fame. He would later also receive the festival's 
``Outstanding Service Award'' and the ``Lifetime Honorary Directors 
Award'' as well-deserved recognition of Bob's unrelenting work to make 
the festival a success every year.
  In 1968, at the request of the new governor, Louie Nunn, Bob decided 
to leave Bell County and begin a political career in Frankfort. As an 
administrative assistant to Governor Nunn in the first Republican 
administration in two decades, Bob served the people of the 
Commonwealth in State government.
  After his time in Frankfort, Bob returned to his hometown to fill a 
vacancy on the Pineville City Council in 1971. Later, Bob was named a 
city judge and served in that capacity until his election as the mayor 
of Pineville in 1977. Beginning his first term as mayor only months 
after the devastating flood, Bob certainly had an overwhelming task 
ahead of him.
  That April, the Cumberland River topped the floodwall and devastated 
the community. During the crisis, Bob was integral to ensuring the 
safety of these Kentuckians. According to one of his friends, ``Bobby 
made sure that everybody got up on the hill.'' Bob led the effort to 
rebuild, serving on the flood related projects committee, and as mayor 
helped bring millions of dollars to extend the floodwall to prevent 
future tragedies. Working with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Bob 
oversaw the project. It was completed in 1988, the year after he left 
office.
  After a period out of public office, Bob was elected as mayor again 
in 1994 and served until the end of 2002. He was again reelected for 
his final term in 2007 before leaving in 2008. During his time in 
office, Bob oversaw the construction of a new U.S. 25E bypass, which 
was later named in his honor.
  While leading Pineville as its mayor, Bob also participated in the 
Kentucky League of Cities, KLC. This organization is dedicated to 
helping cities and their leaders accomplish their goals through 
trainings, advocacy, and policy research. For nearly three decades, Bob 
was a director of the KLC and served one term as its president.
  Bob's passion for his community extended far beyond public service. 
He spent years of his life in many other pursuits speaking directly 
with the families of Pineville. During a professional career that 
included managing a number of radio stations and the Pineville-Sun 
Cumberland Courier, Bob was also the voice of the Pineville Mountain 
Lions. An avid sports lover, he later became a Kentucky High School 
Sports Association official in both boys and girls basketball games. 
Bob was also a faithful member of the First Baptist Church in 
Pineville, singing in the choir and working as the associate Sunday 
school superintendent.
  Those who knew Bob--and that seemed to be just about everyone in 
Pineville--recalled that he was always talking about his hometown. For 
anyone who shared their concerns with him, Bob would do his best to fix 
them. His life was one of passion for his neighbors, and the whole 
Pineville community benefited from his work. His son Scott even 
followed in Bob's footsteps and serves as the current mayor of 
Pineville.
  Bob's memorial service drew hundreds of people to pay their respect 
to the man who made such a significant impact on their lives. The 
people's outpouring of support was a fitting tribute to the man who 
lived his life for his neighbors. Elaine and I would like to extend our 
condolences to Bob's loving family, his friends, and the entire 
Pineville community.

                          ____________________



