

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H403-H404]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. NORMAN:
       H.R. 4793. A bill to make continuing appropriations for 
     military pay in the event of a shutdown of the Federal 
     Government; to the Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 4794. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to permit unborn children to be account beneficiaries of 
     section 529 education savings accounts; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California:
       H.R. 4795. A bill to amend the Middle Class Tax Relief and 
     Job Creation Act of 2012 to promote communications facilities 
     deployment on Federal property, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HURD (for himself, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Upton, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Dent, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Barton, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Faso, Mr. Denham, Mr. 
             Lance, Mr. Katko, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mrs. Love, Mrs. 
             Brooks of Indiana, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto 
             Rico, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Shuster, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Knight, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Flores, Mr. Bacon, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Welch, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Crist, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. 
             Sinema, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Cuellar, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Schneider, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Himes, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Richmond, Miss Rice of New York, and Ms. DelBene):
       H.R. 4796. A bill to provide relief from removal and 
     adjustment of status of certain individuals who are long-term 
     United States residents and who entered the United States 
     before reaching the age of 18, improve border security, 
     foster United States engagement in Central America, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Homeland Security, Education 
     and the Workforce, Energy and Commerce, and Foreign Affairs, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS (for himself and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 4797. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the extension or establishment of national monuments 
     in Arizona except by express authorization of Congress, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
       H.R. 4798. A bill to provide for an inventory of Federal 
     assets on which a communications facility could be 
     constructed or that could otherwise be made available for use 
     in connection with the construction or operation of a 
     communications facility or provision of communications 
     service; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CRAMER:
       H.R. 4799. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to determine improvements in the filing process for the 
     excise tax on the use of heavy highway motor vehicles; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 4800. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to 
     provide for the inclusion of broadband conduit installation 
     in certain highway construction projects, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. King of New 
             York):
       H.R. 4801. A bill to require the Secretary of 
     Transportation to appoint a representative from the 
     Department of Transportation to the board of trustees of the 
     Gateway Program Development Corporation; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. KINZINGER:
       H.R. 4802. A bill to track applications to locate or modify 
     communications facilities on Federal real property, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Smith of 
             New Jersey, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. LoBiondo, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Faso, 
             and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 4803. A bill to clarify the treatment of State and 
     local real property taxes paid in 2017 and assessed for 2018; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Russell, Mr. King of 
             New York, and Mr. Capuano):
       H.R. 4804. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     allow injured Federal law enforcement officers to continue to 
     serve their agencies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 4805. A bill to ensure that State and local law 
     enforcement may cooperate with Federal officials to protect 
     our communities from violent criminals and suspected 
     terrorists who are illegally present in the United States, to 
     stop taxpayer dollars from flowing to jurisdictions that fail 
     to comply with Federal law, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 4806. A bill to provide a short-term disability 
     insurance program for Federal employees for disabilities that 
     are not work-related, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of 
             New Mexico, and Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico):
       H.R. 4807. A bill to fulfill the United States Government's 
     trust responsibility to serve the higher education needs of 
     the Navajo people and to clarify, unify, and modernize prior 
     Dine College legislation; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. PERLMUTTER (for himself and Mr. Gallagher):
       H.R. 4808. A bill to promote transparency in health care 
     pricing; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

[[Page H404]]

  

           By Mr. WALKER:
       H.R. 4809. A bill to increase access to agency guidance 
     documents; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H. J. Res. 125. A joint resolution making an extension of 
     continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2018, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Ways and Means, and the Budget, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida:
       H. Res. 695. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.

                          ____________________



