

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2012-S2014]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 179

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 179, a bill to expand the 
use of E-Verify, to hold employers accountable, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare 
coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of 
durable medical equipment.

[[Page S2013]]

  



                                 S. 550

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 550, a bill to restore 
statutory rights to the people of the United States from forced 
arbitration.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable authority 
for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation Fund to 
maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 573

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 573, a bill to establish 
the National Criminal Justice Commission.


                                 S. 611

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 611, a bill to amend the McKinney-Vento 
Homeless Assistance Act to meet the needs of homeless children, youth, 
and families, and honor the assessments and priorities of local 
communities.


                                 S. 811

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 811, a bill to ensure that 
organizations with religious or moral convictions are allowed to 
continue to provide services for children.


                                 S. 913

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 913, a bill to amend the 
Older Americans Act of 1965 to establish an initiative, carried out by 
the Assistant Secretary for Aging, to coordinate Federal efforts and 
programs for home modifications enabling older individuals to live 
independently and safely in a home environment, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments 
for certain rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center 
services furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1112, a bill to support States in their work to save 
and sustain the health of mothers during pregnancy, childbirth, and in 
the postpartum period, to eliminate disparities in maternal health 
outcomes for pregnancy-related and pregnancy-associated deaths, to 
identify solutions to improve health care quality and health outcomes 
for mothers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1170

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1170, a bill to 
impose sanctions with respect to foreign persons responsible for gross 
violations of internationally recognized human rights against lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1270

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1270, a bill 
to direct the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
to carry out programs and activities to ensure that Federal science 
agencies and institutions of higher education receiving Federal 
research and development funding are fully engaging their entire talent 
pool, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1303

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1303, a bill to 
prohibit discrimination in adoption or foster care placements based on 
the sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of any 
prospective adoptive or foster parent, or the sexual orientation or 
gender identity of the child involved.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1890

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1890, a bill to improve 
the understanding of, and promote access to treatment for, chronic 
kidney disease, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1923

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1923, a bill to 
prohibit firearms dealers from selling a firearm prior to the 
completion of a background check.


                                S. 1939

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1939, a bill to 
repeal the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1945, a bill 
to regulate large capacity ammunition feeding devices.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the 
Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) and the Senator from New Hampshire 
(Ms. Hassan) were added as cosponsors of S. 1989, a bill to enhance 
transparency and accountability for online political advertisements by 
requiring those who purchase and publish such ads to disclose 
information about the advertisements to the public, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2088

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2088, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to provide for the issuance of the Gold Star 
Installation Access Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, 
and other next of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while 
serving on certain active or reserve duty, to ensure that a remarried 
surviving spouse with dependent children of the deceased member remains 
eligible for installation benefits to which the surviving spouse was 
previously eligible, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2143

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2143, a bill 
to amend the National Labor Relations Act to strengthen protections for 
employees wishing to advocate for improved wages, hours, or other terms 
or conditions of employment, to expand coverage under such Act, to 
provide a process for achieving initial collective bargaining 
agreements, and to provide for stronger remedies for interference with 
these rights, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2203

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2203, a bill to amend title 9 of the 
United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                                S. 2341

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2341, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the processing of 
veterans benefits by the Department of Veterans Affairs, to limit the 
authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to recover overpayments 
made by the Department and other amounts owed by veterans to the United 
States, to improve the due process accorded veterans with respect to 
such recovery, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2391

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma

[[Page S2014]]

(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2391, a bill to prohibit 
the United States Government from using or contracting with an entity 
that uses certain telecommunications services or equipment, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2393

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham), the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and 
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2393, a bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to provide Federal 
protection to the digital audio transmission of a sound recording fixed 
before February 15, 1972, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2427

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2427, a bill to establish a 
task force to identify countervailable subsidies and dumping.


                                S. 2448

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2448, a bill to 
provide for the issuance of a rule to advance next-generation 
technologies to provide alternatives to hydrofluorocarbons, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2461

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2461, a bill to 
allow for judicial review of certain final rules relating to national 
emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and 
structural clay products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before 
requiring compliance with the rules by existing sources.


                                S. 2497

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2497, a bill to amend the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act to make 
improvements to certain defense and security assistance provisions and 
to authorize the appropriations of funds to Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2567

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2567, a bill to amend 
the Public Health Service Act to enhance the national strategy for 
combating and eliminating tuberculosis, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2578

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), the 
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 2578, a bill to amend 
title 13, United States Code, to require the Secretary of Commerce to 
provide advanced notice to Congress before changing any questions on 
the decennial census, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2580

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2580, a bill 
to amend title 13, United States Code, to make clear that each 
decennial census, as required for the apportionment of Representatives 
in Congress among the several States, shall tabulate the total number 
of persons in each State, and to provide that no information regarding 
United States citizenship or immigration status may be elicited in any 
such census.


                                S. 2605

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2605, a bill to 
prohibit public companies from repurchasing their shares on the open 
market, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 432

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. McConnell) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 432, a resolution 
congratulating the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania on 
the 100th anniversary of their declarations of independence.


                              S. RES. 443

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) and the 
Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 
443, a resolution recognizing the 197th anniversary of the independence 
of Greece and celebrating democracy in Greece and the United States.

                          ____________________



