

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1326-S1333]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read the nomination of Karen Gren Scholer, of 
Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of 
Texas.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The assistant Democratic leader.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                                  DACA

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today is the day--March 5--the deadline 
imposed by President Trump on those who are being protected and allowed 
to stay in the United States under the DACA Program.
  It was last September 5 when President Trump's Attorney General held 
a press conference and said: That is it. The protection that is 
currently given to 780,000 young people in America to allow them to 
stay in this country and pursue their dreams will end on March 5 of 
2018--today--780,000 who were brought to the United States as infants, 
toddlers, children, and teenagers, who have lived their lives in this 
country, who have gone to school, who have never had a serious run-in 
with the law, who have gone through criminal background checks, come up 
with $500 filing fees, and who were given permission under an Executive 
order by President Obama to legally stay in this country for 2 years at 
a time. During that period, they would not be deported, and they would 
be allowed to work.

  Who are these young people? They are known as the Dreamers, although 
President Trump hates that term. They are known as the Dreamers because 
they represent young people who went to school in America, stood up in 
their classroom every day and pledged allegiance to that flag. This is 
the only country they have ever known. This was to be the country of 
their future, but at some point in their lives, a member of their 
family sat down and said: We have to have a serious conversation. You 
see, we never filed the papers when we brought you to this country as 
an infant, and right now you are undocumented in the United States of 
America.
  What that means is that any minute, there could be a knock on the 
door and you and perhaps your entire family would be asked to leave. I 
introduced a bill called the DREAM Act 17 years ago. Senator Hatch was 
my cosponsor when I introduced it. The purpose of the DREAM Act was to 
say to these young people: We will give you a chance. Though you are 
illegal in the eyes of the law in the United States--undocumented--we 
will give you a chance to earn your way to legal status, give you a 
chance someday to be a citizen of the United States. It will not be 
easy. There is no helping hand for you. If you want to go to college, 
there will be no Federal assistance for you. You are going to have to 
make it on your own. You will have to work and work harder than perhaps 
the person sitting next to you at their desk in high school. See if you 
can do it. If you can, we will give you your chance.
  That is what the DREAM Act said. It passed with a majority vote in 
the Senate many times, but it never quite made it to 60 votes, which it 
needs to become the law of the land.
  President Obama, when he was a Senator in this Chamber, was my 
colleague from Illinois. He cosponsored the DREAM Act with me. So the 
time came when he was elected President, and I wrote him a letter. Dick 
Lugar, Republican of Indiana, joined me in that letter. He supported 
the DREAM Act when he served in the Senate. We wrote to President Obama 
and said: Can you do anything to give these young people a chance, to 
spare them from deportation? He worked on it for 1 year. Then President 
Obama came up with something called DACA, a program by Executive order 
that gave these young people their chance--780,000 of them went through 
the background check, paid their filing fee, and proved they were 
eligible.
  They were spared for 2 years at a time and allowed to stay in this 
country. During the course of the campaign, President Trump said many 
strong words about immigration. We remember them well--it is hard to 
forget--the words about the wall, words about Mexican rapists, on and 
on, but he seemed to have a soft spot in his heart for these kids. Many 
times he would say: We have to give them a chance. They are different.
  The very first time I met President Donald Trump was minutes after he 
had been sworn in. It was at a luncheon here in the Capitol.
  I went up to him and said: Congratulations. I want to thank you for 
the kind words you said about the Dreamers and those protected by DACA.
  He said: Dick, don't worry about those kids. We are going to take 
care of those kids.
  That is what President Trump said on January 20, 2017. I brought it 
up to him several times too. It is an issue that is important to me, 
but, more importantly, it is an issue that is critical to the future of 
these young people.
  Then, what happened on September 5 of last year, just 9 months after 
the President was sworn in? His Attorney General held a press 
conference and said: That is the end of the protection for these young 
people. As of March 5, 2018, no protection.
  Then he challenged Congress. He said: Pass a law. Do what you are 
supposed to do here in the House and Senate. Pass a law that will 
protect these young people.
  A number of us took up the President's challenge. We had a bipartisan 
effort, six of us--three Democrats and three Republicans--and we worked 
through some really hard issues on immigration and on these young 
people. I want to salute my colleagues who were part of that: Lindsey 
Graham, Republican of South Carolina; Jeff Flake, a Republican of 
Arizona; Cory Gardner, a Republican of Colorado; joined with myself and 
Michael Bennet, a Democrat of Colorado; Bob Menendez, a Democrat of New 
Jersey, and we put together an approach that gave these young people 
protection and a fighting chance to prove they deserve to stay in 
America.
  We felt pretty good about it. The President called a meeting in the 
White House on January 9--I remember these dates. I will always 
remember them--with about 25 Members of Congress, Democrats and 
Republicans, House and Senate. He held an open press conference for an 
hour, which is unusual and rarely done in the White House.
  We talked about DACA and we talked about Dreamers and we talked about

[[Page S1327]]

what was going to happen next, since the President had given us a 
deadline of today, March 5, to do something.
  The President outlined what he wanted to see, and then he said in 
front of the television cameras: Send me the bill, and I will sign it. 
I will take the heat on this one. That was January 9. So a number of 
us, the six I mentioned earlier, came together immediately that same 
day and said: Let's finish this bill, and let's get it in his hands as 
quickly as possible.
  By January 11, 2 days later, we were ready. We reached a compromise, 
and it truly was a compromise. Parts of it I didn't care for at all, 
but that is what we do around here if Democrats and Republicans are 
going to produce something that might become a law. We called the 
President. We met the President--Senator Graham and I and a number of 
others, and he totally rejected what we had done. In fact, the 
President went on to reject five other bipartisan proposals to try to 
solve this problem.
  This is the same President who said on January 9 of this year, ``Send 
me a bill, and I will sign it,'' who turned down bipartisan option 
after bipartisan option. He just said no.
  We had a vote on the floor of the Senate. It has been about 3 weeks 
ago now. It was a vote on four different proposals to deal with this 
challenge. Not one of those proposals received 60 votes.
  The one I had hoped for, a bill with a version of the Dream Act, was 
put together by Senator Coons and Senator McCain and brought to the 
floor. I remember it had 52 votes. It needed 60 votes. It fell short. 
The bipartisan compromise led by Senator Rounds and Senator King with 
the President's opposition ended up with 54 votes--6 votes short of 
what it needed to pass. Then the President's own immigration proposal 
came up here on the floor of the Senate. Now, there are 49 Democrats 
and 51 Republicans in the Senate. The President's proposal came up and 
got 39 votes--60 votes in opposition. It was a rejection by his own 
party and the Democrats in the Senate.
  So here we are on March 5. The deadline is here. No bill has passed 
the Senate. The House will not even consider the measure--will not take 
up any version of the measure. What is at stake? There are 780,000 
young people protected by DACA, which officially, by President Trump's 
order, ends today.
  They have one ray of hope, perhaps two. Two courts have said they are 
going to suspend this abolition of DACA until we hear the arguments of 
the President's authority in the Constitution. So there is a 
temporary--and I underline temporary--injunction in place while these 
cases are pending, but I can tell you as a Member of the Senate and as 
a lawyer, no one--no one--can predict how long that protection will 
last. Is it a matter of days or weeks or months, at best?
  That is what these young people live with, this uncertainty.
  This humanitarian crisis in this country--and I call it that--was 
created by President Trump on September 5. He has failed to agree to 
six different bipartisan proposals to solve the problem he created, and 
now these lives hang in the balance.
  Well, who are they? Who are these young people?
  I was with one of them earlier today. Her name is Ana Flores. Ana 
grew up in Aurora, IL, and went to the public schools there. She is a 
very bright young woman who was brought to the United States at the age 
of 5 from Mexico by her parents. She is undocumented in America and 
lives under the protection of DACA.
  What did she do with her life?
  She went to the Illinois Institute of Technology, one of the best in 
the Nation, and she won a civil engineering degree there. Clark Dietz 
is an engineering firm in Illinois that stepped up and said: We want 
that bright young woman on our staff as an engineer, and they hired 
her.
  I met her for the first time today. She is a wonderful person. She 
struggled against the odds all of her life. She is protected by DACA, a 
program that officially, under President Trump's edict, ends today.
  Will Illinois be a better State, Chicago be a better city, the United 
States be a better nation with this young lady and her engineering 
talents at work for us? Of course, there is no question about it. Why 
in the world would we ever want to deport someone who has gone through 
our educational system and excelled like this young lady?
  She is not the only one, by any means. This is a photo of Elizabeth 
Vilchis. She is the 109th Dreamer whom I have spoken about on the floor 
of the U.S. Senate. She was brought to the United States at the age of 
7. She grew up in Yonkers, NY. As a child, she heard about STEM 
subjects--science, technology, engineering, and math. She decided to 
make that her life's work. She excelled in math and science and decided 
she would be part of the future of this country and took on these 
important subjects. She said: ``From that point forward I made pursuing 
a career in STEM my responsibility, as an American.''
  During high school, Elizabeth was a member of the Honor Society, the 
Key Club, the Architecture, Construction and Engineering Program. She 
was editor of the yearbook and also played on the volleyball team. She 
graduated high school with an Advanced Regents diploma.
  She was then accepted into the Honors College at City University, New 
York City College.
  Remember, these Dreamers--these undocumented students--don't qualify 
for Federal assistance to go to school as most kids do. They have to 
find another way to work and save their money or take private loans.
  She received a Community Service Award from the School of Engineering 
4 years in a row for her work organizing engineering education programs 
for low-income students. She received a Student Leader Award for her 
work with an engineering student association. She was named Volunteer 
of the Year 4 years in a row for managing the Manhattan robotics 
competition.
  I have seen those robotics competitions. A lot of young people in 
high school do some amazing things in these competitions, and it 
launches a career and a life in the STEM subjects.
  Elizabeth graduated with a double major in mechanical engineering and 
political science. She worked as an engineer for Samsung for 2 years. 
Then she founded a nonprofit organization focused on creating funding 
opportunities for early stage technology startups. Today, Elizabeth's 
nonprofit has over 700 members. To date, they have raised over $8 
million to grow their companies.
  She wrote me a letter and Elizabeth said:

       To me DACA is my opportunity to give back to the United 
     States and my family the way I dreamed of since I was 10 
     years old. It's the ability to help solve the STEM talent 
     shortage after 15 years of preparing for it and being told it 
     was impossible. It's the power to say ``No'' to going back to 
     the shadows and ``Yes'' to serving as a role model for young 
     girls across the country who aspire to be engineers and 
     entrepreneurs.

  People like Elizabeth are the reason why more than 400 business 
leaders signed a letter to Congress urging us to pass the bipartisan 
Dream Act.
  The letter says:

       Dreamers are vital to the future of our companies and our 
     economy. With them, we grow and create jobs. They are part of 
     why we will continue to have global competitive advantage.

  It would be a personal tragedy for us to deport Elizabeth Vilchis, 
but the decision of President Trump to abolish the program that 
protects her, sadly, makes that a possibility. If this injunction by 
the court is lifted, at that moment, there could be a knock on her 
door--or perhaps on the door of the company that hires her or her 
engineering firm--and she could be told that her time is up. Under 
President Trump, she has to leave the United States of America.

  President Trump created this crisis. Instead of working toward a 
solution, he has rejected every bipartisan effort that has been sent 
his way to save the Dreamers.
  What will happen next? Do we have to stand by and watch as these 
families are divided, as talented young people like Elizabeth and Ana 
are deported? Is that what we are all about? Is that what the President 
meant when he told me ``We'll take care of those kids''? That is what 
it has come down to.
  It is a sad reality that all across America, hundreds of thousands of 
these young people now live in fear of deportation. They should be 
living, as Elizabeth said, outside the shadows and

[[Page S1328]]

as part of America and its future. What can we do about it? I am at a 
loss.
  Unless and until this President accepts the responsibility to help us 
solve the problem he created, I am afraid we will never be able to 
rally the necessary Republican votes to make this a reality. It is up 
to President Trump.
  In the part of the world that I come from in the Middle West, there 
is a saying that I am going to clean up a little bit, and it goes 
something like this: Any old mule can kick down a barn door, but it 
takes a carpenter to build one. This President has kicked down DACA, 
kicked it down to the dirt, and this is the day--the deadline that he 
set. The question is, Does he have the will or the heart to rebuild it?
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Utah.


                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding rule XXII and the order of March 1, the confirmation 
vote on the Doughty nomination occur following the cloture vote on the 
motion to proceed to S. 2155, with all other provisions of the previous 
order in effect.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I enjoyed listening to the minority whip, 
and I don't believe the President is as heartless as he is indicating, 
but the President does want the American laws to be observed. There are 
ways of getting that done, and I think he is doing some of that to see 
that it is done. I happen to empathize very much with Senator Durbin 
from Illinois and have long been a supporter of the Dreamers.
  (The remarks of Mr. Hatch pertaining to the introduction of S. 2495 
are printed in today's Record under ``Statements on Introduced Bills 
and Joint Resolutions.'')
  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I yield the floor.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Democratic leader is recognized.


                               Gun Safety

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, it is nice to hear my colleague's words. 
I would also want to mention a few things about the same issue.
  Mr. President, it has been nearly 3 weeks since the shooting at 
Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, FL. Still, unfortunately, the 
majority leader hasn't committed to any floor time for the debate on 
the issue of gun safety--no time to debate universal background checks, 
a policy that over 90 percent of Americans support, including the vast 
majority of gun owners; no time to debate protective orders to allow 
law enforcement to temporarily disarm individuals who have shown 
credible signs of being a harm to themselves or others, especially 
relevant after Parkland; no time to at least have a debate on assault 
weapons and high-capacity magazines on the floor of the Senate.
  The kids who survived that horrific shooting are speaking up and 
speaking out and are demanding that we address this issue head-on. I 
believe they are moving the conscience of the Nation. I met with them. 
They are fine young men and women. Instead of just cursing the darkness 
after what they went through with the losses of friends and colleagues 
they suffered, they are trying to light a candle, urging us to debate 
and do something real. Yet, the majority leader is moving to a banking 
bill today with no promise of time to consider a package of commonsense 
gun safety measures.
  We need to debate them on the floor. We can't just try to do one 
little bill by UC with no debate or put it into some other big bill. 
This needs a national debate. This issue is consuming America, and for 
the Senate to turn its back and do nothing, or to try to just slip some 
minor measure through, doesn't work.
  Last week, America watched President Trump whipsaw on gun safety 
issues in a matter of days. All of America felt pretty good when the 
President met with a bipartisan group. He seemed to be open to tackling 
gun safety in a bipartisan way in a nationally televised meeting. Then, 
the next day, he met with the NRA behind closed doors and seems to once 
again have backed off.
  It is a show we have seen before, and it is getting old. Too many 
times we have watched the President say the right things when the 
cameras are on but refuse to follow through the moment they are 
switched off--oftentimes doing a 180-degree reversal of his position.
  On the issue of gun safety, just like the issue of immigration, we 
could find a bipartisan consensus. It is very possible, but it requires 
the President to show some leadership, some followthrough, and some 
consistency. Otherwise, Congress will do what it has done after every 
mass shooting for the past decade--nothing.
  Those brave, young students will be here in a few weeks, having 
watched Congress do nothing again. What a black mark that will be--
lowering the even low ratings of this body.


                          Republican Tax Bill

  Mr. President, on to another matter, the Republican tax bill. Over 
and over, we have heard the Republican mantra that their tax bill was 
aimed at giving working Americans a boost. Yet every analysis showed 
that when you looked at the actual policy, the lion's share of the tax 
cuts are going to corporations and the richest 1 percent. According to 
one study, 83 percent of the benefits from the Republican tax bill go 
to the top 1 percent of earners.
  Don't worry, our Republican friends say, that money will trickle down 
to workers, but trickle-down economics has never worked. It has failed 
time and again. Most of our Republican colleagues are even afraid to 
admit that the majority of the tax cuts go to the very wealthy. They 
simply say it is helping working people, but their mechanism of 
trickle-down is something they will not utter in public.
  Instead of giving workers major wage increases, hiring new workers, 
or investing in new equipment and research, the most popular use of the 
savings from the tax bill for corporations is corporate share buybacks. 
That is from the big corporations. Already, big corporations have 
announced more than $200 billion in share buybacks this year. We just 
started March, and already, corporations are on pace to spend over $1 
trillion this year buying back their own stock.
  The problem here is, share buybacks don't really help workers. They 
don't really help grow the economy. They are a quick way for a big 
corporation to take more of their stock off the market, raising the 
value of the shares. Who benefits? Well, corporate executives who own 
lots of these shares and wealthy shareholders who hold the vast 
preponderance of the shares.
  As one economist told Bloomberg, ``You're not going to get the macro-
economic benefit the administration thought it was going to get from 
its tax cuts. It's going to go to the areas that don't stimulate 
growth,'' namely, buybacks, dividends. An analysis by Just Capital, 
which the New York Times called ``one of the most detailed accountings 
to date'' of how companies are spending the windfall from tax reform, 
finds that ``just 6% of capital allocated so far is going to 
[employees], while 58% is going to shareholders in the form of 
dividends, share buy-backs, or retained earnings.'' That is 6 percent 
for the workers and nearly 60 percent to share buybacks and other 
corporate benefits.
  Today, the Joint Economic Committee, led by our wonderful ranking 
member, Senator Heinrich, pointed out that if you distributed the 
savings that went to just one big company--Berkshire Hathaway, which 
gained $29 billion as a result of the tax bill--you could give a $1,000 
bonus to 29 million Americans.
  This is amazing. That is the equivalent of every employee in Arizona, 
Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and 
West Virginia combined from just one company's worth of savings. The 
public is beginning to realize what is going on here. They see they are 
putting their children and grandchildren into deep debt, not to benefit 
themselves, the workers, preponderantly, but to benefit corporate 
leadership, owners of shares--the vast preponderance of whom are in the 
top 10 percent of American wealth.
  Corporations are not putting the vast preponderance of the money 
where they should be--raising the salaries of workers or increasing 
productivity of the company by investing in new machinery and new 
techniques. No; it is that quick hit, the stock buyback.
  It goes to show how beneficial tax reform could have been if it were 
aimed

[[Page S1329]]

at the middle class and those struggling to reach it. Instead, the 
Republicans made a conscious effort to give corporations and the 
wealthiest Americans the bulk of the tax cuts and promised it would 
trickle down to everyone else. Unfortunately, past is prologue, and 
corporate America will invest in what is best for corporate America, 
while working America is getting left behind.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator for Texas.


    Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Bill

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, this week, we will be voting on an 
important piece of bipartisan legislation that recently passed out of 
the Senate Banking Committee, led by our colleague, Chairman Mike 
Crapo.
  The bill is called the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and 
Consumer Protection Act. The purpose of the bill is to rightsize the 
onerous regulations that are currently imposed on community and 
independent banks and that stifle their ability to loan money to people 
who need access to credit in order to start a business or to grow a 
small business.
  Under the current law famously known as Dodd-Frank, these smaller 
banks are often treated just like the largest banks and financial 
institutions in our economy. That doesn't make any sense at all. Main 
Street, we need to remind some of our colleagues, is not Wall Street.
  The bill would make changes to reflect that important distinction. I 
can't tell you how many of my small bankers in Texas have told me they 
had to hire additional personnel, not to make more loans, just to 
comply with the onerous overregulation coming out of Washington, DC.
  Unfortunately, we lost over 2,000 banks nationwide since the end of 
2010. Two thousand banks have gone out of business, either as a result 
of a merger with a larger bank that could sustain the additional cost 
of complying with these regulations or those that have just given up 
and said: We can't cut it because of the costs, and we are hanging up 
our spurs. In Texas, 165 bank charters have vanished during that same 
timeframe--a 26-percent reduction. Like I said, some of the decline is 
due to mergers with larger banks, but there have also been a number of 
bank failures.
  We all heard about too big to fail, but some institutions were deemed 
essentially too small to save. They were the ones left behind and 
forgotten under Dodd-Frank. Because of the regulatory burdens, some 
small banks said enough is enough and opted to get out of the lending 
business altogether. You know who ends up paying the price and who ends 
up getting hurt? It is the married couple who wants to borrow money to 
buy their first home or, as I said earlier, a business that wants to 
expand and hire more people. Those are the people who ultimately get 
hurt.
  In this bill we are considering this week, we are trying to change 
that situation. No less than former Congressman Barney Frank--the 
Democratic author of the original law--has emphasized the point that we 
need now to remember: The bill we are voting on keeps in place rules 
and regulations that were imposed on large Wall Street banks after the 
financial crisis. In other words, the big banks on Wall Street were the 
ones that helped contribute to the financial crisis, and they are the 
ones that will continue to be regulated under Dodd-Frank, but the 
community and regional banks that were, in essence, the collateral 
damage to the great recession of 2008, following the big financial 
crisis, will finally see some needed and welcomed relief. Rigorous 
stress testing of large financial institutions will continue. 
Congressman Frank has said it would be ``wholly inaccurate'' to claim 
otherwise.
  So when some try to distort the bill's purpose and the provisions in 
the days ahead, I think it is important to keep that in mind and don't 
buy what they are selling. This bill will mostly, as I said, affect 
smaller community banks, which clearly don't fall under the same 
category as the titans of global finance.
  Last year, the Banking Committee solicited input from a broad array 
of stakeholders. The committee's idea was to say: Hey, all of you out 
there who greatly suffered under Dodd-Frank, how can we reduce the 
burdens you face? Those are the kind of questions all of us need to be 
asking back in our States.
  After extensive negotiations at all levels, and after hearing not 
just from financial entities great and small but also from consumer 
groups, the result is the bipartisan legislation we will soon consider 
on the Senate floor.
  The bill was formally introduced by a group of 10 Democrats and 10 
Republicans. You don't get much more bipartisan than that. I know the 
Senator from Idaho, the chairman of the committee, has had productive 
discussions as well with my friend and fellow Texan Chairman Hensarling 
on the House side, who heads up the House Financial Services Committee.
  While the new provisions will help community banks, credit unions, as 
well as midsized and regional banks, they will also ensure that key 
consumer protections remain in place. Some of these protections will 
even increase for consumers who have fallen on hard financial times or 
who are victims of fraud. Veterans and seniors particularly will 
benefit.
  Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell has agreed that this 
commonsense bill will provide significant regulatory relief, and his 
predecessor, Janet Yellen, said it was a move in a good direction.
  While I would like to go further and provide additional relief from 
Dodd-Frank, we should nonetheless pass as much as we can and help 
America's local lenders build small businesses and strengthen our local 
communities.
  Let's get this bill--which is supported by a variety of stakeholders, 
including the Texas Independent Bankers Association--across the finish 
line this week.
  I wish to especially congratulate and thank our colleague from Idaho 
for all of his hard work, and I hope that all of us can emulate that 
hard work on a bipartisan basis to get this bill across the Senate 
floor and ultimately to the President for his signature.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. President, I would like to shift gears for a moment and discuss a 
matter that my friends back home in Texas are talking about a lot, and 
that is the benefits of tax reform.
  I happened to walk out here just as the Democratic leader, the 
Senator from New York, was saying that tax reform is not working. Well, 
I note that his message seems to be a little out of sync with the news, 
which in part reported today that the number of Americans applying for 
unemployment benefits is at its lowest level in more than 49 years. In 
other words, our economy is finally growing again, and it is working 
again for the people who needed the jobs and needed the income that are 
provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  Sometimes I wonder whether our Democratic friends, who took great 
political risk by voting uniformly to a person to oppose the Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act, are worried not that it will not work but that it will 
work and they will be proved completely wrong in anticipating what the 
impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will be. In particular, Ms. Pelosi, 
the minority leader of the House, said that these were crumbs--crumbs. 
Well, I think she will be proved wrong, and that will be to the great 
benefit of all of the people of America.
  So everyone remembers, this was not an easy lift. We passed the first 
tax reform in more than 30 years. The immediate consequences of the 
bill have been transformative. In other words, we just did this in 
December, but we have already seen encouraging signs.
  My constituents in Texas know as well as anyone--just ask a man by 
the name of Scott McDonald, who called my office last week. Scott owns 
a residential roofing company in Burleson, which is near Dallas. It is 
called F-Wave, and its mission is to ``create the best [roofing] 
shingle the world has ever seen. Period.'' That is Scott's dream. Do 
you know what Scott told us over the phone? He said that his 47 
employees are really feeling the positive impact in their paychecks. He 
said: ``There are a lot of happy people around here.''
  People are happy because of the reduced tax rates. Now that the IRS 
has updated its withholding tables, in February people saw the first 
boost in their take-home pay they have seen in a long, long time.
  Scott also said that the positive climate has created a lot of 
incentive for

[[Page S1330]]

his company to invest and grow. If you think about it, looking at what 
has happened in the stock market and, more importantly, what it has 
done to 401(k)s and pension plans and people's savings, there is a lot 
of enthusiasm and newfound confidence in the American economy, and that 
is an unequivocally good thing. Scott sees that in his place of 
business. He said that it has created a lot of incentive for his 
company to invest and grow, and that is good for the people who will 
benefit from those jobs. He is looking to hand out bonuses when the 
company's fiscal year ends at the end of this month, and he is hoping 
that a new facility his company is building will create jobs for as 
many as 500 people. You heard me right earlier. He said 47 people work 
there now, and he is hoping that this new facility will create jobs for 
as many as 500 people.
  Scott, we appreciate your story, and we are glad you took the time to 
share it.
  Back home in Texas, we are trying to keep track of all the tax reform 
successes, but there are so many, sometimes it is hard to keep up.
  In West Texas, El Paso Electric has just announced that homeowners 
will get new refunds on their electric bills due to the lower tax rate. 
Seniors, people on fixed incomes, will actually see their utility bills 
go down because of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. What great news.
  In Helotes, which is right outside of San Antonio, my friend, 
Representative Will Hurd, who represents that area, tells us that Jeff 
and Mary Marsh, the owners of two coffee shops, are particularly 
thrilled. They are passing along the tax savings directly to their 
staff of 11 employees in the form of increased hourly wages, benefits 
packages, and bonus programs. They hope to upgrade their systems and 
equipment and expand with new locations too.
  Stories like these sure don't sound like ``Armageddon.'' That is the 
term House Minority Leader Pelosi used to describe the tax reforms last 
year, in addition to calling them ``crumbs.'' She called them 
``Armageddon'' and ``crumbs.'' Well, I am not sure how those two go 
together, but she and other Democrats did their dead-level best to 
scare the living daylights out of the American people and to tell them 
that this would not work and that it would actually hurt them.
  I heard the Democratic leader, my friend from New York, Senator 
Schumer, out here talking about how money that is being brought back 
from overseas isn't being invested properly here in the United States, 
as if it were the government's money. The whole point is that this is 
not the government's money, this is money earned by the people and the 
businesses that take the risks and that we need to succeed so that our 
country will succeed and we will continue to grow so that the American 
dream can remain alive.
  It is almost as if they think that any money saved as a result of the 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is somehow stolen from the clutches of the 
Federal Government that knows how to spend that money better than they 
do. Well, I certainly have a different view.
  I guess, though, our Democratic colleagues were not totally off base 
in mentioning Armageddon because the tax cuts did spell doom for 
progressive rationales and excuses for not cutting taxes and making our 
system more competitive globally. It really was Armageddon when you 
consider what it did to their outrageous arguments.
  Our reforms have exploded the notion that the only way government can 
ensure prosperity is with higher taxes. Again, it is based on this 
crazy idea that the money you earn is not really yours to keep, it is 
the Federal Government's, and the government will only let you keep a 
certain amount of it, and that when we cut taxes, it actually somehow 
is not money that is yours in the first place. It seems like it is 
completely reverse logic.
  The bill's well-documented effects have killed the ludicrous claims 
we heard before Christmas that Americans who faced stagnant wages for 
years wouldn't really benefit from the raises or that companies are 
incapable or unwilling to actually give those raises or invest in their 
businesses and create new jobs. I wonder what the critics have to say 
about all this now. They have mostly been quiet since the good news 
started rolling in--although I guess, listening to my friend from New 
York, they have not given up entirely.
  I wonder what they have to say to organizations like the Health Care 
Service Corporation, which operates Blue Cross Blue Shield in my State. 
Thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, it has announced a $1.5 billion 
initiative to make health insurance more affordable. This $1.5 billion 
initiative to make health insurance more affordable comes as more good 
news to men and women like those in my State who have struggled to pay 
for healthcare.
  I wonder what the naysayers have to say to this one lady in 
particular. I am thinking about somebody from Lewisville, TX. She 
recently contacted me and preferred not to be identified. Originally in 
my remarks, I was going to mention her name, but out of respect for her 
privacy, let me just tell her story and leave her name out of it. She 
had surgery a while back and had to borrow money up front to pay for 
it. On top of her student loans, this stressed her out. She was pretty 
anxious. She was wondering: How am I going to pay these bills? Well, in 
her note that she sent to my office, she said that she is extremely 
grateful for the reduced taxes because now she brings home an 
additional $125 in each paycheck--$125. That $125 helps her pay the 
bills she was so worried about.
  I hope our friends across the aisle who opposed this bill uniformly--
every single one of them voted against it--I hope they will listen not 
to our claims but, rather, to the evidence and realize that this $125 
to this woman from Lewisville, TX, is not crumbs; it is the difference 
between living in fear that she will not be able to meet her 
obligations and living in peace knowing that she is going to be able to 
meet those responsibilities. Her story is America's story, too, and it 
is a snapshot of what is occurring in the economy.
  Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said last week that ``some of 
the headwinds the U.S. economy faced in previous years have [now] 
turned into tailwinds.'' The economy continues to pick up steam.
  I have already mentioned that the number of people making 
unemployment claims is at its lowest level in the last 49 years, but 
when you look at consumer confidence, when you look at the stock 
market, when you look at businesses willing to invest in new plants and 
equipment and you see the benefits of employers competing for labor--
you know, one of the benefits of seeing unemployment so low and the 
economy growing again is that employers are going to have to start 
bidding up for the workers they need in order to do the job. What that 
means is that wages, which have been stagnant for so many years, are 
now going to grow again. So in addition to the lower rates, people will 
have more take-home pay. They are going to see more take-home pay in 
addition because of the increased wages they are going to be able to 
demand for their hard work.
  These are great and positive signs, but we have to keep telling the 
good stories because they so often get drowned out by the scare tactics 
and the hyperbole that comes from those who seem to be afraid--not that 
this will not work but, rather, that it will work and they will be 
proved terribly wrong.
  Madam President, I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Ernst). The clerk will call the roll.
  The assistant bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. NELSON. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                 Florida Hurricane Disaster Assistance

  Mr. NELSON. Madam President, it has been almost 6 months since 
Hurricane Irma struck Florida. It has been about a month since we 
passed the most recent disaster supplemental appropriations bill, which 
finally included the money for Florida's fisheries, citrus growers, and 
communities across the State that we have been fighting for since day 
one, since the storm passed.
  Today, I spoke to the Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross, and I asked 
him to immediately release this critical funding to help the people of 
our State. Florida's fishermen are still waiting for their help too.

[[Page S1331]]

  Hurricane Irma caused extensive damage to vessels, facilities, docks, 
equipment, and gear, especially in the Keys. Many in the spiny lobster 
industry lost all of their traps. The disaster supplemental 
appropriations gave NOAA $200 million for Federal fishery disasters 
like the one that Secretary Ross declared for Florida. Where is the 
money?
  Let's talk about the broader impact to the oceans. Did you know that 
Florida's coral reef tract is the third largest barrier reef in the 
world? It is a reef that starts south of Key West and goes all the way 
up the coast, almost all the way to Fort Pierce. The coral supports the 
spiny lobsters and the stone crabs, which are served in restaurants 
around the country. This industry is important to Florida's economy.
  Hurricane Irma tossed all manner of debris around. Monroe County has 
already spent almost $20 million to remove over 2 million cubic yards 
of waste--roofs, appliances, bicycles, trailer homes, and boats. The 
debris was also swept into the water, which is threatening the corals, 
and into the canals, where it blocks transportation.
  I want you to take a look at this picture. This is one of the canals 
in the Keys. Look at what is sitting in the canal--a whole mobile home 
that was lifted up from the mobile home park on this side of the canal. 
There it is, in the water.
  Take a look at this. Do you see what is in the canal? Do you see out 
here? That is the ocean. This canal is coming right in. What happens is 
that eventually some of the debris goes into the Atlantic. It gets near 
the reef. Some of it submerges. The wave action is sending it back and 
forth.
  You can imagine any one of those pieces of debris knocking constantly 
into delicate coral that is already diseased, that is already 
overheated because the rising temperature of the water. You can imagine 
what is happening. Whether it is a mobile home sitting in the canal or 
whether it is all of this junk that is sitting in the canal and that 
eventually goes out, this is what we need help with.
  It has been over a month since we passed the disaster supplemental 
appropriations bill. Why isn't the money flowing? That is what I called 
the Secretary of Commerce about this morning. I told him: Mr. 
Secretary, my request is very, very simple. Just get the money out. The 
money is appropriated. It is there.
  I said: Mr. Secretary, will you please crack the whip on NOAA so that 
you can get this money out and we can get this place cleaned up, as 
well as protect those coral reefs from the damage they have already 
undergone?
  Then I said: What happened in this storm is, whether for lobster or 
stone crab, the traps were all swept away. The poor fishermen don't 
have any traps. They need help too. That is what this disaster 
appropriations bill is for. Mr. Secretary, you have to crack the whip 
to get them going.
  Unfortunately, this is not the only issue we are facing. Florida's 
citrus industry suffered over $760 million in losses from the storm. 
Why? Because the trees were full of fruit that was going to be picked 
within just a few weeks. Along came the storm; the winds were severe. 
In Southwest Florida, some of the citrus crops were 100 percent lost. 
In fact, the winds were so high that they ended up uprooting citrus 
trees. Further north, in Central Florida, the groves there lost 50 to 
60 percent of their crops.
  The citrus industry cannot survive those kinds of losses, and that is 
why we have a disaster appropriations bill. There were losses of over 
$760 million from the storm. The rest of Florida's agriculture took a 
big hit, too, with an estimated $2.5 billion in total damages.
  In February, we finally came through with $3.8 billion for the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. Of that money, $2.6 billion was supposed to 
go directly to farmers and ranchers. It is March, and those folks 
haven't seen a dime.
  After I talked to the Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross, I put in a 
call to the Secretary of Agriculture. I have called several times 
today. I have yet to connect with him. If any of his staff are 
listening, there is a bottleneck at the USDA that is preventing this 
money from going to the families who desperately need it. I will 
continue to call Secretary Perdue to ask him to do what I asked 
Secretary Wilbur Ross to do: Crack the whip on his organization to get 
the money flowing. That is why we passed supplemental emergency 
appropriations. Now the Federal agencies need to get the money out the 
door.
  This is so frustrating because the administration knew that Congress 
was discussing a disaster supplemental bill when Hurricane Harvey hit 
Texas in August. Then Irma hit, and then Maria hit.
  Six months later, most of the Federal agencies are just starting to 
dust off their pencils and figure out how they are going to allocate 
the funding. What is wrong with you? People are hurting. They are going 
bankrupt. You have to get that money out.
  Can you imagine how you would feel if your family's entire citrus 
crop had been wiped out and you had been holding your breath waiting 
for disaster assistance funding, which finally came over a month ago, 
and then you were told by the folks at the USDA that you were going to 
have to wait for several more months until USDA figures out how to get 
you the money? It is no wonder that people are fed up with bureaucracy.
  Additionally, many of our cities and counties have yet to see any 
reimbursements from FEMA for Hurricane Irma. In fact, many have yet to 
be fully reimbursed for Hurricane Matthew, which struck almost 2 years 
ago. Unbelievably, all those counties that were devastated had paid for 
the debris removal. The State of Florida missed the deadline--didn't 
turn it in on time. Of course, what we had to do to cover the State of 
Florida's mistake was to plead with FEMA: Forget the mistake; it is the 
local counties and cities that need the money.
  Not getting the money out is totally unacceptable. While we are still 
waiting for reimbursements from these storms, how can we expect these 
local governments to prepare for the 2018 hurricane season that will 
start in just a few months, right around the corner?
  Let me say it again. This is unacceptable for the slow-walking--the 
foot-dragging--that is going on in getting the money out the door. I am 
going to keep pounding on this until the folks in Florida start getting 
the help they need and deserve.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Florida.


                              Gun Violence

  Mr. NELSON. Madam President, since I see no other Senator who seeks 
recognition, I thought I would take the occasion to bring the Senate up 
to date on what is happening down in Florida in the aftermath of 17 
people being gunned down at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.
  As we know, we have seen those students speak out with a boldness and 
clarity that is rarely seen, and they are not being intimidated at all 
as to what needs to be done. As a matter of fact, in the aftermath of 
the shooting--and while some of the funerals have still been going on--
since our Florida State Legislature is in session, over the course of 2 
weeks, the students have gone to the capital city of Tallahassee and 
have held individual meetings with State legislators. They have held a 
rally outside of the capital and insisted that maybe--just maybe--this 
might be a time that the State legislature should confront this issue 
head-on: that, in fact, there was something to the fact that a weapon 
that was originally developed for the military, an AR-15--the 
semiautomatic version of a military weapon--could do such damage and 
quickly go about killing so many people. It was 17 in the case of the 
high school.
  Just 2 years earlier, it was 49 people in Orlando at the Pulse 
nightclub. In between, we saw several mass killings with high-powered, 
military-style assault rifles in Texas, as well as 59 people being 
gunned down in Las Vegas.
  Last week, I talked about the assault weapon, and I have since had, 
over the weekend, constituents in Florida ask me to come back and speak 
on the floor of the Senate about the difference in the damage--the 
mayhem, the carnage, the slaughter--that occurs as a result of an 
assault rifle as compared to a handgun. You don't have to take it from 
this Senator. You can talk to the trauma surgeons. You can talk to the 
radiologist in the trauma center. As a matter of fact, several articles 
in the past week have been written in various publications in Florida 
and in the national press, along with there being

[[Page S1332]]

photographs to show the difference. Let me paraphrase the words of one 
of the trauma surgeons in Broward County who attended to some of the 
victims.
  He cited that on any normal night, particularly on a weekend, they 
have to treat gunshots. If that gunshot is from a handgun--say, a .22 
pistol or, say, a .9 millimeter pistol--the bullet will enter the 
victim, and unless that bullet goes to a critical organ, such as the 
heart or, for example, to the blood supply going into the liver, that 
bullet will continue through. If it comes out the other side, it will 
come out with a hole that is the same size as when it penetrated the 
body in the first place. It is not so with a bullet from an assault 
rifle because those weapons, which are developed for the military, are 
clearly for killing.
  The bullet, first of all, comes out at three times the speed--three 
times the velocity. Therefore, when it hits its target, it hits with 
three times the energy. Often, the bullet is designed so that when it 
hits the target, it will tumble and just tear through and destroy any 
flesh in its path, including bone and organs.
  The trauma center's radiologist explains that if a handgun's bullet, 
such as a .9 millimeter, goes through the liver, they can usually save 
the patient's life. They point out that of almost all handgun wounds, 
they can save the life unless the bullet hits a major artery or organ, 
like the heart, or a major blood supply. It is not so with the bullet 
from an assault weapon. The bullet enters at three times the velocity, 
with three times the energy. It starts tumbling, ripping away flesh. If 
it goes, for example, to a kidney or to the liver, it pulverizes that 
organ and comes out the other side of the victim with a hole as large 
as an orange.
  That is the difference between a handgun wound and a wound from a 
high-velocity assault rifle, whether it is a semiautomatic or whether 
it is an automatic. It was made automatic, with what we saw in Las 
Vegas, with the bump stocks. He made a semiautomatic, which was legal 
to purchase, into an automatic rifle. It is because of that carnage 
that one has to ask oneself: Would any American citizen want to have 
those kinds of assault rifles loose on the streets for people who want 
to use them for dastardly purposes? I think the answer is no.
  This Senator grew up on a ranch. I have hunted all of my life. I 
still hunt with my son, but an AR-15 is not for hunting; it is for 
killing. It is an understanding of the difference of these weapons that 
is causing the American people to gradually understand that these kinds 
of weapons have no place on the streets of America.
  One can imagine the SWAT team. Had they been there while the shooter 
had still been inside and had they entered that school and tried to 
find the killer and known that what they were going to come up against 
was an AR-15 instead of a handgun, that would have been a terrible 
thing. One can imagine, if there had happened to be an armed guard with 
a pistol and he had gone after the shooter but the shooter had had an 
AR-15, that would not have been a fair firefight. With a pistol against 
an AR-15, one can imagine who is going to win that fight.
  These are the questions that the American people need to have 
answered as we go through these discussions about what to do. Thus, 
when these students all gather in Washington and in 100 cities around 
this country on March 24--a Saturday--and start marching in untold 
numbers, they are going to be asking: Isn't enough enough? Haven't we 
come to the point at which we ought to reexamine that the Second 
Amendment protects the right to bear arms but if these are the arms we 
want borne on our streets
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Moran). The Senator from Georgia.


                       Nomination of Tilman Self

  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I rise out of a great sense of pride to 
exercise one of my responsibilities in the U.S. Senate to speak on 
behalf of Tripp Self, a judge from the Georgia courts, who has been 
nominated to become a judge for the U.S. District Court for the Middle 
District of Georgia. The vote will take place not too long from now, 
and I encourage every Senator to cast his vote for Judge Self. He is 
the whole package.
  He has a wonderful wife and family and four great children. He worked 
in the private sector for years and accomplished many things in the 
private sector. He went to the University of Georgia School of Law and 
graduated cum laude and summa cum laude from The Citadel, The Military 
College of South Carolina, and went on to have a distinguished private 
career. He then served as a superior court judge on the Macon Judicial 
Circuit for the State of Georgia. In that job with the superior court, 
he did something that I am very close to. He is an entrepreneur because 
he started the Veterans Treatment Court for the Middle District of 
Georgia and for that judicial circuit.
  The Veterans Treatment Court, as all of you know, is a court that is 
formed to help veterans who stray from the law or who have difficulties 
when they come home either because of PTSD or TBI. It helps them with 
the struggles of battle that they have had and with whatever problems 
they may have had from representing us on the battlefield. They trip 
and they fall, and they need somebody to help get them up. We want to 
make them do the right thing but also help them get themselves brushed 
off, look forward to careers, and help them get that step forward. We 
do that with teenagers with what are called CASAs, Court Appointed 
Special Advocates. We turn people around who otherwise might go to 
jail--young kids. The Veterans Treatment Court takes those who have 
risked paying the ultimate sacrifice--that of their lives for you and 
for me and for everybody else--who might have fallen off just a little 
bit. When we get them back into the judicial system, we get them 
straightened out, and we move them forward so they have better lives 
and rewarding careers of their own--thanking them for all of the things 
they have done for us as veterans.
  As the chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee of the U.S. Senate 
and as one who recognizes the value of the court system for all of the 
things it does to administer justice, I am particularly proud to have a 
judge who has used his entrepreneurial skills to deal with a problem 
our society has in the legal sense and in the court sense and to see to 
it that our veterans are getting the help they need and that our 
communities are getting the representation they need.
  I am also a football fan. I know calling football games is tough, 
just as making judicial decisions is tough. Tripp Self officiates NCAA 
football in the Southern Conference. Two years ago, he was selected to 
do the 2017 FCS national championship game, which is a testament to his 
ability to call balls and strikes on the field.
  He is a pretty good shot too. He is a turkey hunter and likes to 
turkey hunt and likes the outdoors.
  Most importantly, he loves the United States of America. He respects 
and loves the law for what it does. We are a nation of laws and not of 
men. He does everything in his capacity as an individual and as one on 
the bench to see to it that our country is a better country and our 
State is a better State--the State I represent, Georgia.
  When each Senator turns to vote in a few minutes on the confirmations 
of the three judges that will come before us today, when it comes to 
Judge Tripp Self, of Georgia, may each cast a vote proudly for someone 
who is a legal entrepreneur for veterans, one who has served with 
distinction in the State as a private sector practicing attorney and on 
the bench already, and one who will serve the United States of America 
very well in the years to come.
  I commend him and his family for being willing to take on this 
responsibility, and I thank the President of the United States for the 
wisdom to make this appointment.
  I yield the floor.
  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Scholer 
nomination?
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), 
the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski), and

[[Page S1333]]

the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan).
  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) 
would have voted ``yea.''
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. 
Heitkamp) is necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lankford). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 95, nays 0, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 46 Ex.]

                                YEAS--95

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Booker
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Gillibrand
     Graham
     Grassley
     Harris
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Moran
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sanders
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                             NOT VOTING--5

     Cruz
     Heitkamp
     McCain
     Murkowski
     Sullivan
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



