

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1547]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                    CELEBRATING PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, this week our Nation 
celebrates Public Schools Week. It is a time when we acknowledge the 
diversity and success of our public schools and the sound education 
that they provide.
  Strengthening America's public schools is the best way to ensure our 
children's future success and our country's prosperity. Ninety percent 
of American children attend public schools.
  This week, supporters across the country will share stories of the 
many students, schools, and professionals who make public schools such 
a vital component of our communities. This includes parents who are 
working hard to improve educational outcomes for children. Advocates 
nationwide will share scores of stories about public school students 
and their successes.
  Mr. Speaker, public school teachers truly make a difference in the 
lives of our students. They prepare them for a bright and successful 
future. It is their dedication to our students that builds strong 
public schools and, therefore, strong communities.
  As a senior member of the Education and the Workforce Committee and a 
product of public schools, I know the incredible role our schools play 
in communities across the Nation. Public schools today have much good 
news to share, from increasing graduation rates and reduced dropout 
rates to improved ratings given by communities on school performance.
  In fact, public school graduation rates have risen from 79 percent in 
2010-2011 to 83 percent in 2014-2015. This increase of the measured 5 
years reflects that four out of five public school students receive a 
regular high school diploma within 4 years of starting ninth grade.
  While the graduation rates varies among States, 34 States have 
reported graduation rates between 80 and 89 percent, with the highest 
being 91 percent in Iowa, followed by 90 percent in New Jersey. Based 
on data from the current population survey, the dropout rate has 
steadily decreased, from 10.9 percent in 2000 to 7.4 percent in 2010 
and 5.9 percent in 2015.
  Last year, 69 percent of recent high school graduates enrolled in a 
2-year or 4-year college.
  We are making progress, but we can do more.
  In many communities, the school district is the largest employer. 
Teachers, busdrivers, administrators, cafeteria workers, coaches, and 
facilities management all depend on the school district, and all of 
these jobs contribute to the fabric of a community. Communities are 
stronger and schools are better when we all work together to support 
public education.
  Public schools also make sure our kids receive at least one 
nutritious meal a day. More than 30 million school lunches are served 
each day, including 20 million free and 2 million reduced price 
lunches. For some students, it may be the only meal they receive will 
be the one at school.
  Mr. Speaker, a child's opportunity for success should not be left to 
chance. Every child needs a quality, well-equipped school right in 
their neighborhood where they can learn, be inspired, and thrive.
  Public education has always been the great equalizer in the United 
States, and I am grateful for the contributions of our public schools. 
I know that, together, we will continue to work to strengthen them for 
our most precious resource: our children.
  Happy Public Schools Week.

                          ____________________



