

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S525]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on pending nominations.


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Global Challenges and the U.S. National 
Security Strategy.''


            Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, at 
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``CFIUS Reform: Administration 
Perspectives on the essential elements.''


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``This is Not a Drill: An 
Examination of the Wireless Emergency Alert System.''


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, at 10 
a.m., at the Washington Convention Center, to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Road to Tomorrow: Energy Innovation in Automotive 
Technologies.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, 
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled ``Reauthorizing the Higher 
Education Act: Access and Innovation.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, 
at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing on the nomination of Frank T. 
Brogan, of Pennsylvania, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and 
Secondary Education, Department of Education.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing on subcommittee assignments and the following 
nominations: Kurt D. Engelhardt, of Louisiana, to be United States 
Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, Barry W. Ashe, to be United States 
District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, Howard C. 
Nielson, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the District of 
Utah, James R. Sweeney II, to be United States District Judge for the 
Southern District of Indiana, and John C. Anderson, to be United States 
Attorney for the District of New Mexico, Brandon J. Fremin, to be 
United States Attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana, and David 
G. Jolley, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of 
Tennessee, all of the Department of Justice.


                Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations

  The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Government Affairs is authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on Thursday, January 25, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Combatting the Opioid Crisis: Exploiting 
Vulnerabilities in the International Mail.''

                          ____________________



