

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1266]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO HENRY HOLLEY

  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, back in my home State of Georgia, in my 
neighborhood in east Cobb County, there is a man by the name of Henry 
Holley. In my few minutes left, I want to honor Henry Holley because he 
is an interesting individual.
  Although there is no such thing as a former marine, he was a U.S. 
marine for 22 years. He met Dr. Graham at a crusade. He volunteered to 
help him in his off-duty time and so impressed Dr. Graham that Billy 
Graham asked him to join his crusades.
  He said: I can't do it right now. I have 2 more years in my 
commitment.
  Billy Graham said: If you come to me at the end of those 2 years, I 
will put you on my team.
  Forty-eight years ago, Henry Holley joined the team of Billy Graham. 
He became his Asian representative. In fact, today Henry Holley is the 
last of the original Billy Graham team who is left alive on this Earth. 
Henry is 90 years old, living in east Cobb County, and witnessing every 
single day all that he learned from Billy Graham and what Billy 
Graham's crusades meant to him.
  They set up crusades in Rio de Janeiro, Seoul, South Korea, and all 
over the world. Henry Holley has been in and out of North Korea more 
than anybody in this country. He goes there with Samaritan's Purse to 
help people who are oppressed, taking to them the message of Jesus 
Christ, working and doing everything he can to improve the plight of 
those people who are oppressed and depressed by a rogue regime.
  Henry Holley is one of the finest people I have ever known. I know 
when Dr. Graham passed away, Henry was not sad but happy because he has 
always talked about knowing that ultimately Billy Graham's place in 
Heaven would be his just reward. Henry could not wait until he could 
join Billy Graham there so they could be together at the end.
  So I know Henry is probably watching, or if he isn't watching, 
somebody will tell him about my mentioning his name. I am doing it to 
honor Henry but also to honor Billy Graham, because the one-on-one 
passing of the Word from me to someone else, from Henry Holley to 
someone else, from Dr. Graham to someone else, is the way Christianity 
was built over the decades and over the years and will continue to be 
preserved in the years to come.
  So as we honor in the U.S. Senate and in the United States of America 
a great man, a great leader, a man of God, and a servant of God, I am 
just so thankful I had the opportunity to be in this Chamber on the day 
we honored Billy Graham and his life. I am so happy I had the ability 
and the opportunity to know his servant, Henry Holley, and be one of 
those along the way whom Henry helped to live a more responsible and 
loving life.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oklahoma.

                          ____________________



