

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1177-H1178]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for himself, Mr. Brady 
             of Pennsylvania, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Richmond, and Mrs. Demings):
       H.R. 5011. A bill to protect elections for public office by 
     providing financial support and enhanced security for the 
     infrastructure used to carry out such elections, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Homeland Security, 
     Intelligence (Permanent Select), the Judiciary, and Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself, Mr. Marino, and Mr. Babin):
       H.R. 5012. A bill to provide further tax relief for 
     Americans receiving bonuses; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Cheney, Mr. Dunn, and Mr. 
             Harris):
       H.R. 5013. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     clarify liability protections regarding emergency use of 
     automated external defibrillators; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Buchanan, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Mast, Mr. 
             Francis Rooney of Florida, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Ross, and Mr. Yoho):
       H.R. 5014. A bill to provide for a moratorium on oil and 
     gas leasing and exploration on the outer Continental Shelf 
     off the coast of Florida until 2029, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Huffman, Ms. Norton, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Polis, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Pingree, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Ellison, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Nolan, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. Kuster of 
             New Hampshire, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Ms. Esty of Connecticut, and Ms. Kaptur):
       H.R. 5015. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to take certain actions 
     related to pesticides that may affect pollinators, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. ABRAHAM:
       H.R. 5016. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish a Revitalize Rural America Grant Program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. FUDGE (for herself, Mr. Evans, and Ms. Lee):
       H.R. 5017. A bill to amend the Department of Agriculture 
     Reorganization Act of 1994 to reauthorize the Healthy Food 
     Financing Initiative, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. KIND:
       H.R. 5018. A bill to carry out pilot programs to improve 
     skills and job training, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. Nadler, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Payne, Mr. Cooper, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Welch, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Beyer, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Mr. Cicilline, and Mr. Gallego):
       H.R. 5019. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     require a quarterly report on security clearances for 
     individuals working in the White House or the Executive 
     Office of the President, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 5020. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     Department of Education program to award grants to secondary 
     schools that establish a project to encourage students in 
     their junior and senior school years to experience career and 
     technical education courses at a community college, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 5021. A bill to require the Administrator of the Drug 
     Enforcement Administration to make publicly available on the 
     website of the Drug Enforcement Administration a report on 
     the sale of controlled substances and controlled substance 
     analogues by means of the Internet; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MARSHALL (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mrs. Bustos, and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 5022. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     authorize funding for the voluntary public access and habitat 
     incentive program; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 5023. A bill to designate the Civil War Defenses of 
     Washington National Historical Park comprised of certain 
     National Park System lands, and by affiliation and 
     cooperative agreements other historically significant 
     resources, located in the District of Columbia, Virginia, and 
     Maryland, that were part of the Civil War defenses of 
     Washington and related to the Shenandoah Valley Campaign of 
     1864, to study ways in which the Civil War history of both 
     the North and South can be assembled, arrayed, and conveyed 
     for the benefit of the public, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 5024. A bill to exclude the species known as bullet 
     tuna and frigate tuna from the standard of identity 
     established for canned tuna, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 5025. A bill to amend the Western and Central Pacific 
     Fisheries Convention Implementation Act to limit the 
     imposition of penalties against a person fishing on a United 
     States flag fishing vessel in certain areas of the Pacific 
     Ocean based on a report by an observer on such a vessel; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN (for herself and Ms. Bordallo):

[[Page H1178]]

  

       H.R. 5026. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to waive certain requirements for naturalization for 
     American Samoan United States nationals to become United 
     States citizens, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself and Miss Rice of New 
             York):
       H.R. 5027. A bill to amend chapter 77 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to clarify that using drugs or illegal 
     substances to cause a person to engage in a commercial sex 
     act constitutes coercion and using drugs or illegal 
     substances to provide or obtain the labor or services of a 
     person constitutes forced labor; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. ROSEN:
       H.R. 5028. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require disclosure of payments for settlements of 
     disputes regarding sexual abuse and certain types of 
     harassment and discrimination, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 5029. A bill to amend the National Agricultural 
     Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to 
     require the specialty crops committee to make an additional 
     recommendation regarding agricultural technology, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Issa, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Lee, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Serrano, and Mr. Hastings):
       H. Res. 738. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of February 14 as World Bonobo Day; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



