

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1269-H1270]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HONORING THE LIFE OF EDDIE OLCZYK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Quigley) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about a legendary 
Chicagoan, Mr. Eddie Olczyk, a former star player and a current voice 
of the Blackhawks. A native son of Chicago, Eddie exemplifies the 
heart, grit, and character of the city we both call home.
  Eddie first made his way into Chicago's collective heart as a member 
of the 1984 U.S. Olympic Hockey Team at the young age of 17. From 
there, he went on to play 16 seasons in the NHL and later coached the 
Pittsburgh Penguins. In 2012, Eddie was inducted into the U.S. Hockey 
Hall of Fame.
  Eddie currently works as a broadcaster for both the Blackhawks and 
nationally as a color commentator for NBC Sports. He is the best in the 
business. Those outside of Chicago may know Eddie from his time 
covering horse racing for NBC.
  Today, Eddie is facing another battle. This one is off the ice. Last 
year, he was diagnosed with colon cancer. As he describes it, sometime 
last summer, he began feeling pain in his lower abdomen. Initially, the 
pain was intermittent and he thought nothing of it. But when it 
persisted for several days, he decided he should get things checked 
out. It was then that his doctor found a tumor, and he was quickly 
scheduled for surgery to have it removed. For the past 6 months, 
Eddie's been undergoing chemotherapy, and he just completed

[[Page H1270]]

his 11th treatment. Thankfully, he has one more treatment to go.

  Clearly, Eddie knows what it means to be tough. But to really be 
tough, men in particular must know that it is okay to say something 
when things don't feel right.
  The American Cancer Society estimates that 1 in 22 men and 1 in 24 
women are at risk for developing colorectal cancer in their lifetime.
  Colorectal cancer is currently the third leading cause of cancer-
related deaths in the United States. In 2017, it is expected to cause 
over 50,000 deaths. That is particularly important for men who don't 
want to consider the dangers of colon cancer. This doesn't have to be. 
When detected early, treatment for colorectal cancer is effective, 
especially when polyps are removed before they become cancerous.
  More young men are being diagnosed with young-onset colorectal cancer 
than ever before. According to the Colorectal Cancer Alliance, 11 
percent of colon cancers and 18 percent of rectal cancer diagnoses 
occur in those under the age of 50.
  Young men, even those in their thirties and forties, must be aware of 
the risk for this disease and advocate for their health. Talk to your 
doctor regularly if you are feeling pain, and get screened regularly.
  Back in his playing days, Eddie would have been nervous about what a 
coach or teammate would have thought if he complained of pain. But, in 
part, to voices like his, the sports culture is changing and more 
athletes are speaking up when something is wrong. We should all learn 
from his and their example.
  After he was diagnosed, Eddie felt like his pride took a hit. Like 
many others who have faced cancer, he was concerned that he was letting 
people down and he began to question his mortality. But as he went 
through treatment and reflected on this ordeal, he started to recognize 
that it was okay to be scared.
  He has used this platform to speak out about colon cancer, about the 
need for screening, and for research for a cure. He knows it is 
important to emphasize that there is nothing wrong with people getting 
colonoscopies at an earlier age. He knows that if he can help just one 
individual get a checkup sooner, he will feel like his battle was worth 
it.
  Eddie has many people to thank for their support; most importantly, 
his family: his wife, Diana; and four children, Eddie, Nick, Zandra, 
and Tom; the entire Blackhawk organization, especially John McDonough 
and Jay Blunk; his broadcasting partner, Pat Foley.
  To Eddie and to all fighting cancer, stay strong and know that we are 
with you.

                          ____________________



