

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S186]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   REMEMBERING JOSEPH WILLIAM NOVOTNY

  Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in 
the Record the remarks I gave at the medal presentation to Joseph 
William Novotny's family on January 13. 2018, in Glendive, MT.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                        U.S. Senator Jon Tester

               Joseph William Novotny Medal Presentation

                            January 13, 2018

                           Glendive, Montana

       Thank you all for being here today. And a special welcome 
     to Emma Bartholomew, Kathy Hegel and all of Joe's family.
       Today is a day years in the making. The efforts to get Joe 
     the recognition and military medal he deserves has spanned 
     years and generations of his family.
       One of my greatest honors in the U.S. Senate is recognizing 
     the service of the brave men and women who serve our country. 
     Men like Joe who don't often seek recognition for their 
     bravery.
       It's my honor to be here today to present Ms. Bartholomew 
     with her brother's medal. I will now read the citation that 
     was printed in the United States Congressional Record, 
     forever commemorating Joe's actions and the long overdue 
     medal that now belongs to his family.


                          CONGRESSIONAL RECORD

       Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the service and 
     courage of Mr. Joseph William Novotny.
       Joe was born in Wibaux, Montana, the seventh of eight 
     children, and grew up roaming the plains of Eastern Montana.
       Joe had recently finished his second year of high school at 
     Sacred Heart Catholic School in Miles City when he enlisted 
     in the military. It was a week after his 17th birthday, 
     nearly a year before he was eligible for the draft.
       He would serve in the Navy, spending two years on board the 
     U.S.S. John R. Craig. Joe would be honorably discharged in 
     July of 1950, days before the three year anniversary of his 
     enlistment.
       Civilian life wouldn't hold Joe for long. He reenlisted, 
     this time in the U.S. Army, in time to deploy to the conflict 
     of the Korean War.
       On March 1, 1951, Private First Class Novotny's unit was 
     pinned down by intense enemy machine gun fire. Before long, 
     several of his fellow infantrymen were wounded.
       Looking around him, at wounded soldiers, with bullets 
     whizzing around them, Joe made a gut decision.
       He was the division litter bearer, and he went to work.
       In the ultimate display of courage and selfless sacrifice, 
     Joe abandoned his covered position to run across the bullet-
     riddled terrain toward some of the wounded American soldiers. 
     Again he found himself pinned down by enemy fire, before he 
     could reach his fellow soldiers.
       Several times Joe moved to reach the wounded soldiers in 
     his unit. Several times he risked his own life to reach his 
     peers.
       It was only after a bullet struck his knee that he crawled 
     back to cover. He received treatment in the field before 
     being transported to a military hospital. He remained there 
     for about four months before he could travel back to the 
     United States.
       Like so many of his fellow soldiers, Joe's injuries 
     followed him home. By his early 50's Joe was relying on VA 
     assisted living facilities as he struggled with his injury 
     and subsequent related illnesses.
       Joe passed away February 24, 2005.
       It wasn't until after his death that his brother began to 
     look in to Joe's service. While his brother passed away 
     before his search could bear fruit, his niece Kathy took 
     things up.
       Today, I want the record to show that this was a man who 
     volunteered to serve his country, not once, but twice, in two 
     branches of the military.
       A man who despite heavy enemy fire, risked his own life to 
     get his fellow wounded soldiers. He only stopped once he 
     himself was wounded.
       A humble man who didn't speak much about his military 
     service after his discharge, despite the actions that earned 
     him four distinct military honors.
       Joseph Novotny is an American hero, and I am honored to 
     present his story and to ensure that it is celebrated in 
     America's history forever.
       Mr. President, I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



