

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1500-H1501]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. WELCH:
       H.R. 5212. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to reform the 
     renewable fuel program under that Act, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Natural Resources, and Science, 
     Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 5213. A bill to prohibit the Rural Utilities Service 
     from providing assistance for the provision of broadband 
     service with a download speed of less than 25 megabits per 
     second or an upload speed of less than 3 megabits per second, 
     and clarify the broadband loan and loan guarantee authority 
     provided in section 601 of the Rural Electrification Act of 
     1936, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BYRNE (for himself, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Barton, 
             and Mr. Gaetz):
       H.R. 5214. A bill to modify the congressional budget and 
     appropriations process to provide fiscal stability for the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Budget, and in addition to the Committees on Rules, 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and House Administration, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Bost, and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 5215. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to prohibit 
     employees found to have knowingly misused Department of 
     Veterans Affairs purchase cards from serving as purchase card 
     holders or approving officials; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. HECK (for himself, Ms. Bass, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Bera, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Rush, Mr. Sherman, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Crist, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Soto, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. 
             Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Costa, Mr. 
             Himes, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Crowley, 
             Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Mrs. Torres, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Lynch, Ms. DelBene, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
             Lawson of Florida, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Pallone, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Welch, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. 
             Doggett, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Ms. Meng, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. 
             Ellison, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Keating, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Kilmer, 
             Mr. Tonko, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Khanna, 
             Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Takano, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, and 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia):
       H.R. 5216. A bill To direct the President to impose 
     sanctions on certain senior foreign political figures and 
     oligarchs in the Russian Federation and certain Russian 
     parastatal entities, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself and Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia):

[[Page H1501]]

  

       H.R. 5217. A bill to establish a White House Rural Council, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Kelly of 
             Mississippi, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Marino, Ms. McCollum, and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 5218. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, 
     with respect to national priority safety programs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
       H.R. 5219. A bill to require sellers of opioids at retail 
     to verify the identity of the prospective purchaser and enter 
     certain information about the purchase into the respective 
     State's prescription drug monitoring system, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself and Mr. Byrne):
       H.R. 5220. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the excise tax on investment income of private 
     colleges and universities; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself, Mr. Loudermilk, and Mr. 
             DesJarlais):
       H.R. 5221. A bill to prohibit the use of funds to develop, 
     test, deploy, implement, or administer the Disability Case 
     Processing System, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. HANABUSA (for herself, Mr. Jones, Ms. Rosen, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Costa, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Mr. Butterfield, Mr. DeSaulnier, and Mr. Gonzalez of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 5222. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
     collectively, to Korean war combat veterans, in recognition 
     of their dedicated service during the Korean war; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Moulton, 
             and Ms. Lee):
       H.R. 5223. A bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to issue 
     an occupational safety and health rule that requires covered 
     health care employers to adopt a comprehensive workplace 
     violence prevention plan and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself, Mr. Sessions, Mrs. 
             Wagner, and Mr. Cole):
       H.R. 5224. A bill to clarify the requirements of authorized 
     representatives under the Family Educational Rights and 
     Privacy Act of 1974, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself and 
             Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 5225. A bill to reinstate the final rule issued by the 
     Social Security Administration entitled ``Implementation of 
     the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007``; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Mr. Rush, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Engel, Ms. DeGette, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Peters, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, and 
             Mr. Butterfield):
       H.R. 5226. A bill to preserve appropriate and achievable 
     Federal standards for greenhouse gas emissions and corporate 
     average fuel economy for cars and light trucks through model 
     year 2025, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 5227. A bill to require a report and strategy with 
     respect to virtual currencies and other related emerging 
     technologies being used to evade sanctions, finance 
     terrorism, and launder monetary instruments, and threaten 
     United States national security, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. PALLONE:
       H.R. 5228. A bill to strengthen the authorities of the Food 
     and Drug Administration to address counterfeit drugs, illegal 
     and synthetic opioids, and opioid-like substances, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, 
             Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Babin, Mr. Harris, and Mr. 
             Biggs):
       H.R. 5229. A bill to amend section 505 of the Illegal 
     Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 
     to clarify the prohibition on postsecondary education 
     benefits for certain aliens, to grant a private right of 
     action to persons injured by a violation of such prohibition, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida (for himself, Mr. Roe 
             of Tennessee, and Mr. Rokita):
       H.R. 5230. A bill to ensure labor organization transparency 
     and accountability; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. ROSEN:
       H.R. 5231. A bill to amend title 39, United States Code, to 
     prohibit a Member or Member-elect of Congress from mailing as 
     franked mail any material with a photographic image, to 
     establish an annual limit on the amount of funds which may be 
     expended on franked mail by a Member or Member-elect of 
     Congress, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Jones, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Joyce of 
             Ohio, and Mr. Tipton):
       H.R. 5232. A bill to prohibit the use of funds provided for 
     the official travel expenses of Members of Congress and other 
     officers and employees of the legislative branch for airline 
     accommodations which are not coach-class accommodations, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for himself, Mr. Smith of 
             New Jersey, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Ms. Judy Chu of California, and Ms. 
             Lofgren):
       H.R. 5233. A bill to provide for automatic acquisition of 
     United States citizenship for certain internationally adopted 
     individuals, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 5234. A bill to amend the Farm Security and Rural 
     Investment Act of 2002 to expand opportunities for algae-
     based research, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. TURNER:
       H.R. 5235. A bill to amend the Foreign Intelligence 
     Surveillance Act of 1978 to ensure that politically derived 
     information is not used in an application to the Foreign 
     Intelligence Surveillance Court for an order under title I or 
     III of such Act; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 5236. A bill to expand opportunities available to 
     employee-owned business concerns through Small Business 
     Administration loan programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business.
           By Ms. HANABUSA (for herself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H. Con. Res. 112. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center for an 
     event to celebrate the birthday of King Kamehameha I; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. HOYER (for himself, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mr. Sarbanes, and Mrs. Comstock):
       H. Con. Res. 113. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of the Capitol Grounds for the Greater Washington Soap Box 
     Derby; to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Vela, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Soto, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Titus, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Bass, Mr. Panetta, Mr. 
             Serrano, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. Rosen, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Costa, and Mrs. Torres):
       H. Res. 768. A resolution recognizing the heritage, 
     culture, and contributions of Latinas in the United States; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



