

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H462-H469]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           THE MARCH FOR LIFE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege and honor, 
as we approach the March for Life on Friday, to remember the infamous 
Supreme Court decision that has resulted in the loss of some 60 million 
unborn babies and tens of millions of women who have been harmed. Sixty 
million have been killed, a number that equates with the entire 
population of England, as a result of that very misguided and sad and 
tragic decision.
  It is my honor, as we open up this Special Order, to yield to 
Congresswoman Jackie Walorski from Indiana, a distinguished Member of 
this body who serves on the Ways and Means Committee.
  Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate life, to stand 
for the idea that every human life is a gift from God, and to join my 
colleagues in renewing our commitment to defend the inherent dignity of 
every person born or unborn.

[[Page H463]]

  This week, we will vote on the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors 
Protection Act, which says that a baby born after a failed abortion 
attempt should be given the same medical care as a baby born any other 
way.
  The same day, hundreds of thousands of our fellow Americans will 
march on the Nation's capital to celebrate the sanctity of life. Those 
who march for life come from every corner of the Nation to be voices 
for the voiceless and to defend the most vulnerable among us. Such 
compassion, their dedication to this worthy cause, gives us hope that, 
through service and action, we can foster a culture of life.
  Mr. Speaker, each and every life is precious. That is why we must 
continue to be tireless in our work to defend the sanctity of life and 
to protect the unborn.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her 
very strong and powerful statement.
  Mr. Speaker, I now yield to Robert Pittenger from North Carolina, who 
is the author of the No Abortion Bonds Act, a bill that would close 
loopholes in the Tax Code that allow abortion providers to finance new 
clinics and facilities with local bonds that are exempt from Federal 
taxes. Congressman Pittenger serves on the Financial Services 
Committee.
  Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak on behalf of our Nation's 
greatest tragedy. I would like to thank Chairman Smith so much for his 
leadership over the past 35 years. He has been unrelenting in his 
commitment and support of life, and I have the deepest respect for him.
  Today marks Roe v. Wade's 45th anniversary. Since that ignoble 
decision, over 60 million precious, innocent unborn babies have been 
intentionally killed by abortions in the United States.
  In light of the anniversary and the March for Life event, I would 
like to share the words of the late Mother Teresa:
  ``But I feel that the greatest destroyer of peace today is abortion, 
because it is a war against the child, a direct killing of the innocent 
child, murder by the mother herself.
  ``And if we accept that a mother can kill even her own child, how can 
we tell other people not to kill one another?
  ``How do we persuade a woman not to have an abortion? As always, we 
must persuade her with love, and we remind ourselves that love means to 
be willing to give until it hurts. Jesus gave even His life to love us.
  ``So the mother who is thinking of abortion should be helped to love, 
that is, to give until it hurts her plans or her free time, to respect 
the life of her child. The father of that child, whoever he is, must 
also give until it hurts.''
  Mother Theresa goes on to say:
  ``By abortion, the mother does not learn to love but kills even her 
own child to solve her problems.
  ``And, by abortion, that father is told that he does not have to take 
any responsibility at all for the child he has brought into the world. 
That father is likely to put other women into the same trouble. So 
abortion just leads to more abortion.
  ``Any country that accepts abortion''--Mother Theresa says--``is not 
teaching its people to love, but to use any violence to get what they 
want. This is why the great destroyer of love and peace is abortion.''
  The work of this body, Mr. Speaker, must be to correct this tragedy 
to protect the lives of those who cannot speak for themselves.
  We hope and pray for those who stand in darkness on this grievous 
loss of life and who have been advocates of abortion. Who would know 
the mind of God regarding these 60 million precious souls, that He may 
have given to some of them the cure for cancer or Alzheimer's or 
Parkinson's or many other diseases? God is merciful, but we must 
recognize our own responsibilities and affect for our own actions.
  This week, we have the opportunity to outlaw the diabolical practice 
of killing babies who survive an abortion, something incredibly 
barbaric, by passing the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act.
  I also urge my colleagues to join me in support of the No Abortion 
Bonds Act, legislation I introduced to block Planned Parenthood and 
other abortion providers from using tax-exempt, taxpayer-backed bonds 
to finance their abortion clinics.
  Ours is a great cause, greater than us, greater than this generation. 
It is a battle for the very soul of what we stand for as a nation.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, we do have several physicians 
who serve in this Congress who are very, very pro-life and very 
eloquent in their defense of life.
  I yield to Congressman Andy Harris, who is associated, obviously, 
with Johns Hopkins, the gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for giving me the 
opportunity to serve as the co-chair of the Pro-Life Caucus and to 
speak briefly today on the anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision.

  Mr. Speaker, for the last hour, those of you who listened, and there 
are a lot of people watching who listened, was a discussion about the 
humanity of individuals, the humanity of people here in America, and 
how we need to deal with it, how we need to respect it, how we need to 
take that humanity into consideration. And we will. That had to do with 
the DREAMers. It was about DACA.
  But for this hour, we are going to talk about 1 million human beings 
a year who lose their life through abortion in the United States--one 
million human beings per year.
  Now, why do I emphasize human beings? Because the science on this is 
very clear. These are human beings. From the moment of conception, 
their genetic makeup is unique from every other human being in the 
world and uniquely human.
  So how can we not consider those 1 million human beings a year who 
lose their life to abortion not the greatest human rights challenge 
that faces us here in the United States?
  When we have the March for Life in 2 days, we are going to see many 
people from the millennial generation, many young people, who I think 
realize, because they have grown up and they learn in their science 
class, that these, in fact, are 1 million human beings every year who 
lose their life in the United States. They realize the science is 
clear. They are human beings. They deserve the protection of this 
Congress.
  We are going to deal with the issues that they talked about last 
hour, and then the Congress should turn its attention to ending that 
human rights abuse for those 1 million human beings every year who lose 
their life to elective abortion right here in the United States.
  I want to thank the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) for his 
leadership over the decades on this issue. The struggle is not over. 
This human rights issue is not over, but hopefully, thank God, one day 
it will be.

                              {time}  1915

  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank Dr. Harris for his very 
eloquent remarks and for reminding us that this is the greatest human 
rights struggle on Earth.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms. 
Foxx), the chairwoman of the Education and the Workforce Committee. Ms. 
Foxx has been a lifelong leader on the issue of life and, of course, in 
leadership, and now as a full committee chairman. I thank the 
gentlewoman for all she does on behalf of the unborn and their mothers 
each and every day.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I want to 
join my colleagues who all thank the gentleman tonight for the 
fantastic leadership that he has given to this issue for so many years.
  Mr. Speaker, today I rise to affirm the dignity of the estimated 59 
million children whose lives have been terminated by abortion in the 
United States since 1973. This Friday, tens of thousands of Americans 
will bear witness to the value of the unborn at the 45th annual March 
for Life, united in opposition to the life-degrading Supreme Court 
decision, Roe v. Wade.
  The right to life is first among the inalienable rights of the 
Nation's Declaration of Independence. It is imperative to safeguard 
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; those necessary conditions 
for people to flourish. Unfortunately, as evidenced by Roe v. Wade, our 
society too often values happiness at the expense of human life.
  However, amid this culture of death, the pro-life movement fights for 
life

[[Page H464]]

with love. And this year's March for Life theme, ``Love Saves Lives,'' 
truly embodies the spirit of the pro-life movement. Look no further 
than the 2,200 pregnancy centers across the country dedicated to 
serving pregnant women and new mothers. There are many in my district 
and I am very proud of them.
  These pregnancy centers empower women with life-affirming options and 
offer medical testing, prenatal care, and ultrasounds. They also 
provide parenting classes, baby supplies, and financial assistance to 
help meet the emotional and material needs of pregnant women.
  Many offer information about the beautiful option of adoption and 
provide referrals to connect birth mothers with loving families for 
their babies. The babies cared for in these clinics are loved before 
they are even born and the women are offered the love and support they 
need. These clinics recognize life as a precious gift and embrace a 
life-affirming option despite adverse circumstances.
  We live in a society that mistakes choice for liberty. But the beauty 
of living in a free country is that we can use our liberty for love. On 
Friday, the march will speak for the unborn, but the pro-life movement 
is more than just words. It is love in action every day, affirming the 
value of life at all stages, no matter the difficulties it presents.
  Striving to love daily is not easy, yet it is the greatest exercise 
of our freedom, and there is no life unworthy of that love.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairwoman Foxx again 
for her very moving words, which are backed up by her actions each and 
every day.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Walberg), 
who serves on the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Education and 
the Workforce Committee.
  Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  This past Sunday, I stood at the side of a casket of a beloved 
longtime friend who had just turned 95 years of age 5 days before. Up 
until almost her dying day, she was vibrant, was committed to life, 
touching lives of people, changing lives and making an impact in the 
world.
  I am rejoicing today in a different way because of two brand-new 
lives that have been born: one to a staff member, and another to a 
former staff member of mine. Brand-new babies with an opportunity to be 
dreamers in this world.
  Who knows what their lives will be, but isn't this what it is all 
about?
  Life that is lived has impact and then goes on, and new lives to 
follow, ultimately to have impact, have dreams, and make a difference, 
and truly establish the divine plan that is the sanctity of life.
  This week we are observing the 45th anniversary of Roe v. Wade and 
the 44th March for Life. There are people like us, like Congressman 
Smith, who have, for the past 35-plus years, been leading this 
challenge here. It was 35 years ago that I left my dream job as pastor 
of a local church to speak for life in the halls of the State 
legislature and end taxpayer-funded abortion.
  In Michigan, we still have a law that says abortion is not lawful, 
but because of Roe v. Wade, we march again this year speaking for life, 
speaking for the defenseless, speaking for those who would desire, who 
would dream to be found in a world that they can change.
  How did we get into this situation, especially when we have in that 
Declaration of Independence the immortal statement that says: ``We hold 
these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal and 
endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights,'' among them, 
the right to life--the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of 
happiness?
  John Adams, our second President, said: ``Our Constitution was made 
only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the 
government of any other.''
  May we redouble our efforts to be that moral people that stand on 
things that are timeless, that were designed by our Creator, God.
  Let me end with this: one of our good friends and former colleagues 
here in this Chamber, one night, gave me a poem that meant a lot to 
him. As I read that poem, it changed me as well.
  It is entitled, ``The Anvil,'' and it simply says:

     Last eve, I passed a blacksmith's door
     And heard the anvil ring the vespers chime;
     Looking in, I saw upon the floor old hammers, worn with 
     beating years of time.
     ``How many anvils have you had,'' said I, ``To wear and 
           batter all of these hammers so?''
     ``Just one,'' said he;
     And then with twinkling eyes, ``The anvil wears the hammers 
           out, you know.''
     And so, thought I, the anvil, called the Master's word,
     For ages, skeptic blows have beat upon;
     And though the voice of fallen blows was heard,
     The anvil is unharmed and the hammers gone.

  Mr. Speaker, I believe the truth of miracle and blessing of life will 
prevail and the right to life will be protected for all. Even as we 
find the anvil stand firm, so will the truth of God's creation of human 
life. It will remain. Let us all who honor life never give up.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. I yield to the distinguished gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. Banks), who is a member of the Navy Reserve and who serves 
on the House Armed Services Committee; the Veterans' Affairs Committee; 
and the Space, Science, and Technology Committee. He is championing the 
Patients First Act to prioritize ethical stem cell research that will 
help patients and do no harm to the youngest members of the human 
family.
  Mr. BANKS of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his 
tireless efforts on behalf of the unborn.
  Mr. Speaker, our Nation was founded on the universal principle that 
all people have a God-given right to life. ``All'' includes every 
single human being, regardless of race, gender, or age. Throughout our 
Nation's history, we have continually fought to draw closer to this 
ideal. However, there is still so much more work to do.
  Forty-five years ago, the Supreme Court made a tragic decision in Roe 
v. Wade, and since then, more than 60 million innocent lives have been 
lost. Every single one of those lives was important and unique. 
Tonight, as we reflect on those lives lost as a result of Roe v. Wade, 
we also celebrate that our culture is increasingly recognizing the 
value of human life.
  A recent Marist Poll found that an overwhelming majority of the 
American people want substantial limits on abortion. Another poll found 
that 61 percent of Americans opposed using tax dollars to fund 
abortions within the United States, while 83 percent of respondents 
opposed subsidizing abortions outside of the United States.
  Last year, the House took an important step by passing the Pain-
Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. This bill would prohibit any 
elective abortion attempt on an unborn child who is 20 weeks or older, 
the age at which research shows us that children are able to feel pain. 
Sixty-three percent of Americans support a 20-week abortion ban, and I 
am hopeful that our colleagues in the Senate will pass this bill later 
this month.
  We also must work to ensure that taxpayer dollars do not continue to 
support the abortion industry, including Planned Parenthood, our 
Nation's largest abortion provider.
  Life is a precious and sacred gift worth fighting for. Tonight, I 
urge my colleagues to stand for human rights and equal justice by 
standing for our Nation's most vulnerable, the unborn. Let's make the 
cause of life the cause of our time.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his 
remarks.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Kelly), 
from the Third District, a member of the Committee on Ways and Means.
  Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I think the interesting part of our conversation tonight 
is what we are talking about. We are talking about the Born-Alive 
Abortion Survivors Protection Act; the born-alive abortion survivors. 
This is such a commonsense bill, it just protects our children.
  I wonder what people think about this: in the case of an abortion or 
an attempted abortion that results in a child being born alive, any 
healthcare practitioner present must exercise professional care to 
preserve the life of the child. The child must be immediately 
transported and admitted to a hospital.

[[Page H465]]

  This bill is needed to protect our children. Americans have seen the 
horrifying videos of Planned Parenthood, and the Judiciary Committee 
has heard testimony from women who have survived and whose children 
have survived abortion.
  But I think what is more chilling than anything, in the United States 
of America--the biggest defender of life, and liberty, and freedom in 
the world, that is our history--we have to pass a law that protects 
children who survive an attempted abortion. These are children that are 
born alive. It is incredible that we have to even have that discussion 
in the people's House, especially the United States of America.
  Where have we become this depraved of what our moral constitution 
needs to be?
  It is unbelievable that we have to come to this House and on this 
floor and defend those lives.
  Now, it has been said oftentimes that 90 percent of life is showing 
up, because when you show up, people know you care. On Friday, hundreds 
of thousands of Americans from all over our country will come to 
Washington, D.C., in the March for Life. They have done this for 45 
years. For 45 years, their passion has never diminished. For 45 years, 
they have made the trip to Washington, D.C., so that our country's 
leaders, political leaders, understand the sanctity of life. It is 
incredible that we have to go through this process.

                              {time}  1930

  The United States is only one of seven countries in the world that 
allows abortion after 5 months. I wish we would quit using the term 20 
weeks--5 months. Who is included in that group? North Korea, Vietnam, 
and China. What a wonderful group to be part of.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman because he has fought this fight 
for so long. I ask Mr. Smith to just think of the last 45 years, the 
number of people who have come here, the number of people who have 
marched for life, and we talk about what it is that we are trying to 
get to.
  Now, we know there has been 60 million abortions--60 million little 
boys and little girls who never got to live the full potential of their 
life. But through the efforts of the pro-life movement, what we can 
count are the numbers of expectant mothers who were going to have an 
abortion, but, through the efforts of people like Chris Smith, stopped 
and thought for a minute about what it was they were actually going to 
do, and that was end a life. We don't have those numbers, but I have to 
tell you, they have to be off the charts.
  Another thing I think is so important, for those folks who did go 
through an abortion, it is time for them to know that there is 
forgiveness and there is mercy. There is always room in our hearts to 
embrace them and get them through that difficult period.
  Mr. Speaker, I can't tell you how important this piece of legislation 
is. It is just so chilling. I am going to repeat it again: a law that 
allows children who are born alive in an attempted abortion have got to 
be protected by the people's House. Where in our hearts, as human 
beings, do we not understand the basic moral obligations and rights 
that we have?
  It is just so hard to come here year after year to do this. But for 
45 years--for 45 years--they have shown up in droves, millions and 
millions of Americans, talking about life and protecting life. We have 
another chance this Friday for all of us to show up and for all of us 
to be there. I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, 90 percent of life is 
showing up because people know you care.
  I thank Mr. Smith of New Jersey so much for showing up for 45 years. 
We do know the gentleman cares, and we do know his compassion and his 
dedication to life.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I just remind everyone this is 
a total team effort. One of the beauties of the pro-life movement--and 
I have been in it for 45 years--is that it is filled with incredibly 
compassionate, selfless people who would do anything to help the 
weakest and the most vulnerable. So I thank the gentleman for his 
leadership for all these years.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from West Virginia (Mr. 
Jenkins), who is the famous gentleman who serves on the Appropriations 
Committee where so many of these battles are engaged.
  Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Kelly. 
What inspiring words. I thank Congressman Smith for his incredible 
leadership. I am so proud to stand with my colleagues today to support 
the right to life.
  I commend all of those who will be coming to our Nation's Capital 
this week, including from my home State of West Virginia, to let their 
leaders--us--know that we are a country that values life and human 
decency.
  Each and every life is a precious gift from God. It is our 
responsibility to stand up for the unborn who were made in God's own 
image. They have no voice. We must be their voice. I am proud to join 
my colleagues in using our voices to protect life and to stand up for 
the unborn. I am proudly pro-life.
  As we near the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, we grieve for the lost 
lives. We pledge to protect the babies yet to be born. No taxpayer 
should be forced to pay for abortions. That is why I have consistently 
supported legislation to repeal ObamaCare and to defund Planned 
Parenthood.
  I was also proud to be a cosponsor of the recently passed Pain-
Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which would stop late-term 
abortions and the torturous pain that comes as the result of this 
despicable practice.
  I am also a proud cosponsor of the bill that will be taken up later 
this week, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. This 
legislation ensures that babies born after a failed abortion attempt 
are given the appropriate medical care to live and are treated as human 
beings.
  Mr. Speaker, every life--born and unborn--is precious, and I am proud 
to stand here with my colleagues to reaffirm our values--that life is a 
gift from God, and every baby deserves life.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. I thank the gentleman for his eloquent 
statements and remarks.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Bergman). 
General Jack Bergman is a retired three-star general of the Marine 
Corps, and he serves on the Veterans' Affairs, Budget, and Natural 
Resources Committees.
  Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Smith for yielding. I 
am proud to be amongst my colleagues this evening.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of the constituents of the First 
District of Michigan who are--I repeat--the voice for those who have no 
voice.
  2018 marks the 45th anniversary of the infamous Roe v. Wade decision. 
Since that day, as you have heard several of my colleagues say, almost 
60 million abortions have occurred in our country, our United States. 
Today, this timeframe is an appropriate time for us to pause, reflect, 
and plan a path forward for the pro-life movement.
  The most important question we must ask ourselves is: Why? Why do we 
stand for life? Why is this cause so important to us? Why do we fight 
for not only all of our citizens, but for the unborn?
  For me, my why is simple: every life--every life--has immense value, 
regardless of wealth, stature, or fame. Whether you were born in rural 
northern Michigan or in a large city, we all were put here on this 
Earth for a purpose: to fulfill God's purpose.
  As the father of two wonderful daughters and eight beautiful 
grandchildren, I know firsthand the joy, love, and inspiration that 
every single life brings.
  Life is precious and should never be taken for granted. As a nation, 
we must offer hope to those who have no hope. We must remind others of 
the hope offered by an adoptive family and continue together as the 
voice for those who have no voice. We must and will continue to fight 
for those who have no voice.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Jody B. Hice), who is co-chair of the Values Action Team. It 
is worth noting that he is part of the team back home that has now been 
ranked number 8 by Americans United for Life in what they call the 
``Life List'' because of the legislation and the policies that have 
come forward in Georgia to protect life.
  He was a pastor before coming to Congress and has been a leader for 
religious liberty as well in the House.

[[Page H466]]

  

  Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, what an honor it is to be 
here with Mr. Smith of New Jersey. I thank the gentleman for leading 
and managing not only the calls but this Special Order this evening.
  It is amazing to me that here we come, yet again, on the anniversary 
of another Roe v. Wade, 45 years, some 60 million children who have 
gone. Along with that is another anniversary, the March for Life, that 
has been taking place now itself for over 40 years.
  I am thrilled that this weekend there will be students, teachers, 
nuns, pastors, priests, and families from all across this great country 
marching in the streets right here in Washington, D.C., from the 
National Mall to the Supreme Court and all across various streets 
across this country standing up for life. What a powerful thing that 
is.
  When we talk about life, it is not an issue between Republicans or 
Democrats. This is an issue protecting 10 fingers and 10 toes. It is 
about protecting a precious heartbeat. Yes, we have been able, in this 
Chamber, to support and pass some significant legislation like the No 
Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. That is a great thing. There should 
be no taxpayer funds going toward abortion. We have passed the pain-
capable bill, another great bill.
  I wear this little lapel pin, a footprint in a heartbeat. I am 
hopeful that we will be able to vote on and pass the heartbeat bill. We 
have all heard abortion stops a beating heart. It is time now that a 
beating heart stops abortion; that if a heartbeat can be detected, a 
baby will be protected. I am hopeful that we will be able to get that 
on the floor here for each of us to have an opportunity to vote for 
that.
  I am pleased as well that we made the Make America Secure and 
Prosperous Appropriations Act. It defunded Planned Parenthood--
something many of us have been fighting for for years, for decades--
and, in particular, ever since the horror of seeing the videos of 
Planned Parenthood selling baby parts, it is time that we finally 
accomplish that.
  I just am so grateful for my colleagues here tonight taking a stand 
for life; taking a stand for what is the greatest, first, and most 
important right of all, the right given by Almighty God, the right that 
President Reagan said himself, ``without which no other right has any 
meaning.'' So I thank my colleagues for being here tonight for taking a 
stand.
  There is obviously more work to be done. The people of America gave 
us a united government in this past election and sent us here to stand 
for the platform that we ran on that includes saving lives.
  I want to encourage each of us to stay in the fight and each one 
watching to stay in the fight. We have come a long way. There is more 
to go, and, with God's grace, we will see it happen. I thank the 
gentleman from New Jersey for allowing me the opportunity.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman), who is from Wisconsin's Sixth District. He is 
a member of the House Budget Committee, the Education and the Workforce 
Committee, and the Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
  Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his work on the 
Pro-Life Caucus.
  Only 52 years ago, abortion was illegal in this country, just as it 
was largely illegal throughout our country's history. It was illegal 
before ultrasounds which made it so clear to everybody what was in the 
womb. It was illegal when medical care was a fraction of what it is 
today. It was illegal when families lived without electricity or 
running water.
  Despite these hardships, the public knew abortion should be illegal.
  How have we responded to our material blessings? How have we 
responded to these abortions? By saying that we cannot afford these 
children.
  I would like to thank Donald Trump for reinstating the Mexico City 
policy. I would like to thank him for allowing States to not fund 
Planned Parenthood with their title X funds. I would like to thank him 
for defunding the United Nations Population Fund. I would like to thank 
the March for Life people for coming up here this year and reminding 
Americans about this important cause.
  I hope that the American citizens stop and think: if abortion could 
be illegal only 52 years ago in this country before we had ultrasounds, 
if abortion could be illegal in the 1800s with minimal medical care 
when people were living six or seven people in a room in a house 
without air conditioning and without heat, then how did these people 
keep abortion illegal and how do we respond to our blessings by saying 
that we have to have one of the most liberal abortion laws in the 
country?
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. Graves), who is the chairman of the Water Resources and 
Environment Subcommittee.
  Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Mr. Smith for 
his leadership in this effort for so many decades.
  Mr. Speaker, we spend millions of dollars every year in this Nation--
in fact, in some cases, billions of dollars--providing healthcare for 
Americans, feeding Americans, providing housing for Americans, and 
educating Americans. We do that, Mr. Speaker, because we value life. We 
value these lives, and so we spend billions and billions of dollars 
ensuring that there are opportunities for these folks, ensuring that we 
are protecting these lives and we are doing everything we can to 
provide a pathway to prosperity, to make sure that these people are 
healed from their ailments, to make sure that they have shelter, and to 
make sure that they have food.
  Mr. Speaker, under current law, if someone causes a fetus to die, 
that is a crime in this country. That is a crime. They can be charged 
for the murder of the mother, and they can be charged for the murder of 
the fetus.

                              {time}  1945

  But there is one exception in the law, and that is an abortion. I 
don't understand how in this country we can, on the one hand, say that 
these lives are so valuable and we are going to spend all these 
resources on healthcare and many other issues in people's lives because 
they have so much value to us as Americans. I don't understand how we 
can charge someone criminally if a fetus is killed through some type of 
crime, yet we provide an exemption or an exception for abortion. A life 
is a life, is a life, is a life, is a life. It either has value or it 
does not.
  This month, as we have the 45th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, it is 
amazing to think about 45 years. I think it is important that we 
reflect upon all of those constituents who we have all met; all of 
those Americans who are the product of a changed mind; the constituents 
I have met who have told me that their mother, their father changed 
their mind, and telling me about their lives and the contributions they 
have made to our community, the contributions they have made to this 
Nation. All lives have value.
  In this Congress, we have passed the Pain-Capable Unborn Child 
Protection Act. We passed the Conscience Protection Act. As other 
Members have noted, this week we are going to be voting on the Born-
Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which ensures that if a child 
survives an abortion--that awful situation--they would be given 
appropriate medical care to ensure that they have an opportunity at 
life, to ensure that they have a chance, because lives have value.
  Mr. Speaker, as we move forward, I want to continue working with 
folks on both sides of the aisle, as I often hear people standing here 
and saying they are a voice for the voiceless. They are a voice for 
those that are vulnerable populations. This is a vulnerable population. 
This is a voiceless life that we need to be representing and we need to 
be fighting for.
  I am going to continue working with folks on both sides of the aisle 
to protect and promote life, the unborn and the born, because our 
Nation's most vital resource isn't found in our economy, in our 
environment, in our jobs. It is found in our people.
  I think so many other policies that we pursue here in this Congress 
respect that and represent that. This is the one anomaly that we need 
to continue to fight to continue to fix, because a life has value. We 
need to continue fighting for the most vulnerable in our society so 
they have the opportunity to have the same experiences that other 
Americans have.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his 
very eloquent remarks.

[[Page H467]]

  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Olson), who 
serves on the Energy and Commerce Committee. He has long pushed for 
transparency and led a landmark effort on Federal payments to Federal 
abortions providers. He recently led an amicus brief supporting his 
State's right not to be forced to fund Planned Parenthood.
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my dear friend and unquestioned 
leading fighter for all life as the chairman of the Pro-Life Caucus, 
Chairman Chris Smith. My dear friend has saved millions of lives not 
just in America, but on every continent on God's Earth. It is a true 
honor to join my friend tonight to fight for life.
  One of America's darkest days is rapidly approaching. Forty-five 
years ago, January 22, 1973, seven activist judges masquerading as 
being impartial on our Supreme Court came up with a constitutional 
right to kill the unborn. In Roe v. Wade, these activists create a 
constitutional shadow, a ``penumbra'' on the 14th Amendment to make 
abortion legal. Since that decision in 1973, America's moral values 
have declined and we have attacked our decency. It reached its high 
point when videos came out of Planned Parenthood personnel drinking a 
large glass of wine and talking about selling baby parts.
  But America is starting to rebuild her moral fiber. We now have a 
strong pro-life President in Donald Trump. President Trump has 
appointed a Supreme Court Justice, Justice Gorsuch, who will apply the 
laws and not make laws and violate our Constitution. He knows that the 
word ``penumbra'' has no business being in a Supreme Court decision.
  More and more States are choosing to save lives, instead of taking 
the lives of the innocent. In a few days, millions of pro-life 
Americans will come to their Capital to show the world we respect all 
human life at the March for Life this week. I hope that all the 
activists who want to kill unborn babies leave their offensive foam 
helmets at home.
  I want to close with two quotes from two people very involved in this 
issue. The first one is from Norma McCorvey. She is the Roe in Roe v. 
Wade. She died in Katy, Texas, in my district, last February. She made 
this strong confession:
  ``I felt crushed under the truth of this realization. I had to face 
up to the awful reality. Abortion wasn't about `products of 
conception.' It wasn't about `missed periods.' It was about children 
being killed in the mothers' wombs. All those years, I was wrong. 
Signing that affidavit, I was wrong. Working in an abortion clinic, I 
was wrong. No more of this first trimester, second trimester, third 
trimester stuff. Abortion--at any point--is wrong. It is so clear. 
Painfully clear.''
  Mr. Speaker, my final quote is from Mother Theresa. It is short, but 
says it all about the fight for life. She said:
  ``It is a poverty to decide that a child must die that you must live 
as you wish.''
  Mr. Speaker, reject poverty and choose life.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Olson for those 
very strong comments. I feel the same way about his great leadership 
for all these years.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Biggs), a 
member of the Judiciary Committee and the Science, Space, and 
Technology Committee.
  Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for 
his leadership on this issue. I thank those who are sponsoring H.R. 
4712.

  I was a young man in high school when the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court 
decision came down. It ignited a movement to preserve the life of the 
unborn. My mother and future mother-in-law began working in the 
trenches to see this pernicious and barbaric practice eliminated. 
Seeing their example, my wife, my family, and I have worked to protect 
these little ones for many years. We have worked for pro-life causes in 
the community, internationally, and in the State legislature.
  During my tenure in the State legislature, we passed dozens of pro-
life bills. I am pleased to say that, since 2009, Arizona has passed 
and had signed into law 39 bills promoting the protection of unborn 
babies. In fact, Arizona was recently named the top pro-life State in 
the Union by Americans United for Life. Even so, Arizona is not without 
problems.
  I dedicate my support for H.R. 4712 to Aryana Zeitner, whose mother 
faked a serious illness so that a doctor would perform an abortion at 
22 weeks. Aryana survived the abortion, but she was not given any 
medical attention. Doctors, nurses, and presumably her mother, let her 
life slowly ebb away. Aryana's life passed after 1 hour and 18 minutes 
after the abortion was performed. This bill is for Aryana and others 
who should be alive today.
  In another instance, a baby with no name survived an abortion. 911 in 
the Phoenix area of Arizona received a call from a worker at the 
abortion clinic indicating that a post-abortion baby was breathing, but 
the clinic did no more than provide oxygen. The baby passed, dying 
before arriving at the hospital.
  Mr. Speaker, I dedicate this bill to all of the unnamed victims of 
abortion.
  Mr. Speaker, if a baby survives an abortion, it is not an abortion. 
It is a birth. It is inhumane to allow a baby who survives an abortion 
to simply die from neglect and inattention.
  I urge the passage of the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection 
Act, H.R. 4712. I urge leadership to bring H.R. 490, the Heartbeat 
Protection Act of 2017, sponsored by 170 Members of this body, to the 
floor for a vote as well.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Estes), who serves on the Education and the Workforce 
Committee and the Homeland Security Committee. His home State of Kansas 
was just ranked number five as the most pro-life State in the country 
by AUL's 2018 Life List. I thank him for his leadership all these years 
as well.
  Mr. ESTES of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Smith for 
hosting this Special Order on the 45th anniversary of Roe v. Wade to 
remember the devastating impact on children and women, and to celebrate 
the sanctity of all human life.
  Each and every life is precious, a unique gift with intrinsic value. 
Furthermore, science is clear that, at just 16 weeks old, a baby's body 
is fully formed and has fingerprints, and a baby can even make facial 
expressions.
  Mr. Speaker, I have been blessed with three incredible children, each 
one of them unique with their own special personalities, talents, and 
dreams. As a father, I am excited to see what impact they will have on 
the world. Each of them will contribute to society and bring a unique 
perspective to the world that only they can.
  As we approach the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, I am reminded that in 
the past 45 years there have been over 60 million fewer individuals in 
the country today because of abortions. That is 60 million fewer people 
living the American Dream, starting families, farming in Kansas, or 
going to medical school to save lives. Their fate was determined before 
they even had a chance to show the world their talents.
  In my home State of Kansas, I am thankful for the countless 
volunteers who assist with educational programs and outreach to ensure 
that we are becoming a society that values life, even before a child is 
born.
  For many years, my wife and I have been involved with Kansans for 
Life and have been blessed to work with so many tireless advocates for 
life. Hundreds of these volunteers are coming here this week for the 
March for Life.
  With 63 percent of Americans now supporting abortion bans after 20 
weeks--that is 5 months--I think we are seeing an incredible pro-life 
generation. This gives me hope, Mr. Speaker, and I am ready to see what 
kind of impact these unborn children will have on our world.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend for his 
comments.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Rothfus), a pro-life leader who has been a leader in educating members 
of our Conference about the dangers of assisted suicide. He serves on 
the Financial Services Committee. He has been, of course, a great 
leader in defending the unborn and their moms.
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Chris Smith, for his 
long work in this endeavor.
  This past Monday, our country observed Martin Luther King Day. I had

[[Page H468]]

the privilege of participating back home in some events honoring Dr. 
King.
  While reflecting on Dr. King's legacy at one of the events, I 
recalled decades ago when I first read the letter from the Birmingham 
jail.
  Dr. King explained there are two types of laws: just and unjust.
  Dr. King asked: What is the difference between the two?
  He answered that a just law is a man-made code that squares with the 
moral law or the law of God. An unjust law is a code that is out of 
harmony with the moral law.
  To put it in the terms of St. Thomas Aquinas, Dr. King said: an 
unjust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law and natural 
law.
  Defending the natural law principles of the Declaration of 
Independence is one of the reasons I ran for Congress. The first right 
listed in the Declaration is the God-given right to life.

                              {time}  2000

  This Friday marks the 45th anniversary of one of the most somber days 
in our country's history: the day that the Supreme Court issued Roe v. 
Wade.
  Associate Justice Byron White called this decision an exercise in 
``raw judicial power,'' as the court invented a right to abortion that 
wiped out the laws of all 50 States.
  To echo the words from Dr. King's 1963 address at the Lincoln 
Memorial, the Supreme Court stamped the promissory note of the rights 
in the Declaration of Independence with ``insufficient funds'' for the 
unborn.
  As we observe this sad anniversary, let us, once again, restore the 
promise of our Declaration of Independence's right to life.
  I look forward to greeting constituents at the March for Life.
  Mr. Speaker, I, again, commend Congressman Smith for his tireless 
advocacy in defending the defenseless.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. Abraham), a member of Armed Services Committee; the 
Agriculture Committee; and the Science, Space, and Technology 
Committee.
  Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today so proud to stand with my 
colleagues and to stand with those who will be marching in 2 days to 
remove the scourge, the stain, on American history.
  Our Louisiana delegation, as you have heard, has a strong presence 
here. We have a strong presence from Louisiana that will march on 
Friday: a very young people that get what abortion is. Our great whip 
leader, Steve Scalise, would be here, too, were he not recovering from 
a surgery. So we wish him the best.
  Mr. Speaker, as a Christian, I know that life is a precious gift, and 
I believe that life begins at conception. As a physician, my oath is to 
protect all lives, including that unborn child. And, certainly, as an 
American, I think abortion violates our Constitution's unalienable 
rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
  Mr. Speaker, you have heard, tonight, that over 60 million babies 
have been aborted. Think what they could have become: mothers, fathers, 
sisters, brothers, nieces, and nephews--vital parts of our community.
  As you heard from my great friend, Garret Graves, who listed some of 
the bills that we have introduced this Congress, we will continue to do 
this.
  Mr. Speaker, we don't have to continue to put up with this stain on 
American history. We can do better. We know how to do it. We must end 
this practice as soon as possible and we must prevent this horror from 
continuing.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. Johnson).
  Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New 
Jersey and all of our colleagues here tonight for standing for the 
sanctity of every human life.
  Mr. Speaker, I was born on January 30, 1972, 357 days before Roe v. 
Wade became the law of the land. Before I came to Congress, for almost 
20 years, I defended religious freedom and the sanctity of human life 
in the courts and the court of public opinion.
  We often summarized our conviction on this issue by stating, very 
simply, what I have said in this Chamber now many times, that this is 
part of the very foundation of our Republic. It was the British 
philosopher, G.K. Chesterton, who said one time:
  ``America is the only nation in the world that is founded on a 
creed.''
  He said that creed is articulated with ``theological lucidity in the 
Declaration of Independence.''
  What is the creed?
  We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created 
equal and that they were endowed by their Creator with certain 
unalienable rights. Among these are the rights to life, liberty, and 
the pursuit of happiness.
  The Founders understood that this is essential to who we are as 
Americans, but, more fundamentally than that, who we are as human 
beings. They understood that because we are made in the imagine of a 
holy God, every single person has inestimable dignity and value. And 
our value is not related in any way to our race, our socioeconomic 
status, where we came from, where we went to school, how talented we 
are, or what we may be able to contribute to society. Our value is 
inherent because it is given to us by God.
  It is for all of these reasons we fight for the sanctity of every 
human life, we cherish our children as a heritage from the Lord--as the 
scripture says--and we defend the defenseless. It is our solemn 
obligation before the Lord, and I pray that we are always faithful in 
doing so.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Rodney Davis).
  Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend for 
yielding. Chris Smith is one of the leaders in the pro-life movement 
that we have had not just here in the House, but in our country.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today because I want to commemorate the 45th 
anniversary of Roe v. Wade. Every year in January, families, religious 
leaders, and students come to Washington, D.C., and march from the 
National Mall to the Supreme Court. To me, the March for Life means 
having renewed hope and faith in our Nation's young people, as I see 
hundreds, many from perishes just like mine, come to our Nation's 
Capital to stand for human life.
  I want to recognize all of the groups from Illinois, who are 
traveling to participate in this week's March for Life event, including 
the 250 young people and chaperones from my Diocese in Springfield, 
Illinois. As a father of a daughter and twin boys, I want to thank our 
youth for their commitment to life.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Smucker).
  Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Chris Smith for leading 
the Pro-Life Caucus and for organizing this evening's Special Order.
  This Friday, our constituents from all across the country will arrive 
on the National Mall for the 45th annual March for Life. Last year's 
March for Life was one of the first events that I had participated in, 
here in Washington, after I took office in January of last year.
  Hundreds of my constituents had marched down the National Mall. I had 
the opportunity to meet with them afterwards and hear from them about 
their hopes for the pro-life movement. They had just come back from 
hearing the Vice President speak. He had spoken about life is winning 
here in America. He said:

       I've long believed that a society can be judged by how we 
     care for its most vulnerable, the aged, the infirm, the 
     disabled, and the unborn.

  Since that day, Mr. Speaker, I am proud to say that this Chamber has 
taken steps to protect the lives of the unborn.
  We passed the commonsense Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, 
banning abortion after 20 weeks, the point at which we know that an 
unborn child can feel pain.
  We passed the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, ending taxpayer 
subsidies of abortions, and codifying the Hyde amendment 
governmentwide.
  I was very happy to be part of a body that passed both of these bills 
and, of course, voted for and supported those measures.
  And this week, the House will vote on legislation--the Born-Alive 
Abortion Survivors Protection Act--requiring medical care be given to 
any child who survives an attempted abortion,

[[Page H469]]

with strict penalties for those who do not comply with the law.
  Voting against this legislation would be unconscionable. A child, 
made in the image of our Creator and born into this world, should not 
need additional legal protections requiring medical care if they are 
born alive after an attempted abortion.
  But here we are, continuing our fight for the rights of the unborn 
and the born. It is a fight worth fighting, and we aren't going to 
stop.
  I look forward to joining my constituents on the National Mall on 
Friday to raise our voices for those who cannot yet speak. They have 
our commitment to continue to work in this Chamber to protect the lives 
of the unborn.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson).
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for 
yielding.
  What an outstanding turnout tonight.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be here tonight and participate in this 
Special Order to celebrate the sanctity of human life and redouble my 
commitment to protecting the most vulnerable among us: the unborn.
  I want to thank Congressman Chris Smith for hosting this opportunity 
tonight. He has certainly been a champion of the pro-life moment, and 
this week marks the 45th anniversary of Roe V. Wade, the Supreme Court 
decision that set constitutional precedent on the issue of abortion.
  That decision also ignited the pro-life movement, which was already 
taking shape.
  And this movement will be witnessed on Friday, when more than 100,000 
pro-lifers from across the country will come to Washington, D.C. for 
the 45th annual March for Life. This year's theme is ``Love Saves 
Lives.''
  And, Mr. Speaker, it surely does.
  Thanks to the pro-life movement, abortion rates across the country 
are at the lowest since 2013.
  Proudly, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania remains one of the top 
protective states in the nation to provide legal protections for human 
life from conception to natural death, according to Americans United 
for Life.
  From 2015 to 2016, we saw a 3 percent decline in abortions in 
Pennsylvania, and these statics reflect important Pennsylvania State 
laws, such as, the ban on sex-selection abortion.
  These figures are certainly welcome news, but the fight is not over 
and there is more work to be done.
  I know this House will continue to work tirelessly at the federal 
level to put the health and safety of women and children first. Pro-
life education and legislative efforts are making an impact on our 
culture and in the lives of women facing unexpected pregnancies.
  We must always be a voice for the voiceless. And we must continue to 
build a culture that values life and respects mothers and their 
children.
  I am proud to be part of this movement and I thank every individual 
here tonight for their commitment to this important cause.
  Because we all know that ``Love Saves Lives.''
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my 
time.

                          ____________________



