

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1271-S1274]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Russell 
Vought, of Virginia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Louisiana.


                      Tribute to Sally-Ann Roberts

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, it is very hard, as the Presiding Officer 
knows, to become an icon in television news as station owners change, 
as demographics change, and as on-air personalities change. The 
``Guinness Book of World Records'' actually tracks the longest serving 
television news broadcaster. In case one is curious, the current record 
holder is a broadcasting legend named Don Alhart, who has been 
delivering the news in Rochester, NY, for 51 years. I am happy for Mr. 
Alhart, but Sally-Ann Roberts could have taken that title from him had 
she not decided it was time to pass the baton.
  After 41 years at WWL-TV Channel 4, in the great city of New Orleans, 
Sally-Ann Roberts is embarking on a new chapter in her life. She is 
retiring today. If anybody is worthy of icon status, it is Sally-Ann, 
and she is absolutely humble about it. If you talk to her about her 
career, she will probably turn the conversation around to you. If you 
insist on talking about her career, she will always give credit to her 
parents for instilling such a strong work ethic and a love for the Lord 
in their children.
  Ms. Roberts came to WWL-TV from Laurel, MS. She was working as the 
weekend anchor in that small, wonderful town. She didn't even work 
every weekend; she worked every other weekend. Talent, though, does not 
stay hidden in America. A WWL-TV journalist by the name of Angela Hill, 
an icon in her own right, stopped near Laurel for the night. She turned 
on the television, saw Sally-Ann, and immediately told her news 
director to hire Sally-Ann. Angela recognized intelligence and talent 
when she saw it. Very shortly thereafter, Ms. Sally-Ann Roberts had the 
city hall beat in New Orleans, and the rest, they say, is history.
  For the past 26 years, Sally-Ann has anchored the morning show on 
WWL-TV Channel 4 in New Orleans. She is as much a part of the morning 
routine in New Orleans as eggs and beignets. Part of the reason people 
feel so comfortable with Sally-Ann is her positive attitude and 
pleasing personality. During cooking segments, she has been known to 
sneak bites of the crispiest bacon. During stories about neglected 
children--stories that would break anyone's heart--she would often tell 
us that she was shedding light on the need for foster parents, always 
trying to be positive.
  The Presiding Officer probably knows Ms. Sally-Ann Roberts's little 
sister. Her name happens to be Ms. Robin Roberts. Robin is an anchor on 
``Good Morning America.'' A few years ago, Robin was diagnosed with a 
very rare blood disorder. A bone marrow transplant saved Robin 
Roberts's life. Sally-Ann Roberts provided that lifesaving bone marrow. 
Here is a typical story about Sally-Ann. She went through the bone 
marrow collection process on a Tuesday and a Wednesday. By Thursday, 
she was dressed to the nines and doing a national interview to 
emphasize how quick the recovery time is. She wanted to educate America 
about bone marrow donation.
  Let me say again that Sally-Ann Roberts is an icon, and I don't use 
that word lightly. If she had wanted, she would have probably been 
anchoring the evening news before a national audience, but she loved 
and still loves New Orleans, and that was where she chose to remain.
  She has had an extraordinary career as a broadcast journalist. I know 
she is excited about what comes next. I suspect she will spend some 
time with her grandchildren. I suspect she will continue writing books 
and also driving home the importance of bone marrow donation. Sally-
Ann, I know, will not just put her feet up and sit. Audience members 
like me are grateful she devoted such a lengthy chapter of her life to 
Louisiana and to our great city of New Orleans.
  God bless you, Sally-Ann Roberts. Thank you for giving so much to our 
community and to our State.
  Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I have been coming to the floor to talk 
about the many ways the tax relief law has helped people all across 
America.
  Last week, there were even more examples. One thing we saw was the 
``Economic Report of the President'' that came out last Wednesday. This 
is a report from the top economists at the White House. According to 
the report, the tax relief law that we have passed and signed into law 
is going to raise

[[Page S1272]]

the average wages for working families across this country by over 
$4,000 in the long run. That is a huge raise. This report said that 
more than 4 million workers are also getting one-time cash bonuses and 
other benefits. These one-time cash bonuses mean a great deal to 
American families. It says that so far, over $2 billion in cash bonuses 
have been given.
  Today in Wyoming, we heard another great report that Taco John's--an 
establishment at which I frequently ate lunch when I was in the Wyoming 
Legislature, as did so many members of the Wyoming Legislature. They 
are providing bonuses for employees. That is another case in point. The 
reason they say they are doing it is the tax relief tax cut benefits 
that people all across the country are receiving as a result of the tax 
law we passed.
  If you remember, a lot of Democrats predicted gloom and doom if we 
were to pass this piece of legislation. Nancy Pelosi actually said it 
was Armageddon. She said it was the end of the world. Well, with all of 
these workers getting bigger paychecks and more take-home pay, 
Democrats have now started to panic. Nancy Pelosi said all the benefits 
people are getting under the tax law are ``crumbs.'' That is what she 
called them, but that is not what people across the State of Wyoming 
are calling them.
  I received a note the other day from a man who said he heard all the 
rhetoric from Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats. He said: ``Here is what 
the crumbs mean to a fellow working in Casper, Wyoming.'' He said that 
the first thing he noticed was that his take-home pay was higher in his 
latest paycheck. He figures that the tax cut works out to about a 2-
percent raise for him. He and his wife decided to put that money 
straight into his retirement savings plan and invest it. He figures 
that over time, as those investments grow, it could add up to an extra 
$97,000 by the time he is ready to retire. He said: ``A few crumbs over 
time really do matter.''
  There was a second part of his story about what the Republican tax 
relief means for him and his family, and that is the bonus. Because of 
the tax cuts, his employer gave him a bonus of $1,500. He said: ``I 
plan to enjoy the summer just a little bit more with this surprise 
income.'' He said he is investing the tax cut in his retirement, and he 
is investing the bonus in creating additional memories with his family 
today. He said that it means they are going to take an extra camping 
trip to Yellowstone this summer. They will enjoy ``a few more cookouts 
with families and friends this summer to savor the memories that this 
tax reform is providing.''
  That is what it means for people across the country--memories, family 
activities, vacation, and a better retirement--all of those things 
because of the tax law and tax relief passed for the American people. 
They are going to do things they like doing, everything from going on 
vacation to going out for ice cream.
  Tax reform has been very good for people in Casper, WY. It is good 
for his family. He wrote to tell me about it. It is good for the local 
businesses that he will be supporting, where he will be spending his 
money, traveling around the State, going on vacation, camping trips, 
cookouts, and making memories. They are not crumbs.
  I don't know why Democrats who voted against the tax cuts even came 
to Washington in the first place. I do know that Republicans came here 
with a purpose--a purpose to give families more opportunities to invest 
in their futures like this man is doing.
  There was another new survey that came out last week. They talked 
with heads of companies across America, and they talked about the 
confidence index that we are seeing nationwide. That is because of the 
tax relief law. The survey found that 89 percent of these business 
leaders are confident in the U.S. economy's prospects this year. It is 
at an alltime high.
  Look at 2016--the last year of the Obama administration--and 2017 and 
2018. That is an enormous jump from the 39 percent that business 
leaders were feeling in terms of confidence back in 2016. It is even 
bigger than last year, when 80 percent said they were confident. The 
reason for the jump is simple. When we look at what has changed since 
2016, there were a couple of very big things.
  First is the way that Republicans have been cutting back on 
Washington's burdensome, punishing, and destructive regulations. It is 
going to save Americans a lot of money and a lot of time.
  The second thing that happened is that Republicans in Congress passed 
the tax relief law. That is why millions of Americans are getting a pay 
raise. That is why Americans are more confident about our economy. The 
business leaders are right. They should be confident about the state of 
America's economy because Republicans are just getting started.
  Our economy should have been growing much more quickly ever since the 
recession ended almost 9 years ago, but it didn't during the last 
administration because the politics and the policies of the Democrats 
in Washington held our economy back. Now we have Republican policies, 
and the economy is much stronger. America's economy grew by just 1.8 
percent in 2016. That is tepid growth compared to what we expect and 
what we are used to. Last year, it grew by 2.5 percent. We added 2.2 
million jobs in 2017. Confidence is soaring.
  Democrats don't want to hear about it. They don't want to talk about 
it. They don't want to hear from their constituents who are getting a 
raise and getting more money in their paychecks. They consider it 
crumbs. They almost appear to be rooting for the economy to stall. Some 
may want the economy to look more like it did when they were in charge.
  The American people are going to look at what the Democrats did and 
realize that what the Republicans did made a huge difference in their 
lives. People are going to look at the fact that every Democrat in the 
Senate voted against the tax cuts. Then people are going to look at 
what Republicans have done and what it means for people's take-home 
pay. That is why Republicans are here. It is what we promised to do. 
That is what we are going to continue to do.


                         Energy Infrastructure

  Mr. President, I would like to speak about energy infrastructure. 
President Trump has shown that he intends to be a champion for 
upgrading our country's aging highways, bridges, and water 
infrastructure. As chairman of the Senate Committee on Environment and 
Public Works, I will be working with President Trump to modernize our 
infrastructure. This includes working to upgrade America's energy 
infrastructure, things such as electric transmission lines and natural 
gas pipelines. These facilities need to be repaired and modernized, and 
we need to build new facilities as well.
  Often, these investments can be made without any taxpayer funding. 
People get the benefit of new jobs, economic growth, and the affordable 
and reliable energy that these projects supply. It is good for 
everybody, including the taxpayers. We just need to make sure the 
government doesn't get in the way.
  Recently, there was an important reminder of the need for energy 
infrastructure development. It was that blast of cold weather and heavy 
snow that hit the Northeast part of the country earlier this year. 
Normally, natural gas accounts for about 48 percent of the power 
generated in New England. During this big winter storm in January, gas 
accounted for only 16 percent. That is because there aren't enough 
natural gas pipelines in the region to deliver all of the gas they 
needed for heating and for power. This shouldn't happen in America, 
where we are the No. 1 natural gas producer in the world.
  To meet the demand in New England, powerplants and utilities have had 
to take the drastic step of importing liquefied natural gas from 
Russia. Can you imagine such a thing? This is a tanker, and it carried 
gas from a Russian company called Yamal LNG--liquefied natural gas. The 
gas came from a facility in Siberia, and they were taking it right into 
the Boston Harbor last month. This is the location of the Boston Tea 
Party, and we are bringing in Russian LNG.
  You might think that local leaders in the region would want to avoid 
importing gas from our adversaries, like Russia. You might think they 
would want more American pipelines to power our communities. That is 
not what is happening in the Northeast part of this

[[Page S1273]]

country. Instead, leaders in that region have been vocal opponents of 
new pipelines. They blocked the pipelines.
  People who have been vocal opponents of the new pipelines include 
some of the Democrats who represent that part of the country right here 
in the Senate. They refused to allow responsible and safe energy 
development to give people in the Northeast the natural gas the 
families and businesses need. These Democrats claim they are protecting 
the environment. That is simply not true.
  There was a headline in the Boston Globe a couple of weeks ago. The 
headline was ``Our Russian pipeline, and its ugly toll.'' That was in 
the Boston Globe. The article pointed out that Russia actually has much 
lower standards than the United States when it comes to protecting the 
environment. Democrats are just playing the old game of ``not in my 
backyard.'' We see the same thing so often when it comes to energy 
infrastructure projects.
  We should be looking for ways to make energy as clean as we can, as 
fast as we can, without raising costs for American families. When it 
comes to actually producing the energy, Democrats put up roadblocks to 
keep it from happening.
  If we are going to build America's infrastructure, we need to 
streamline the process, and we need to start cutting the redtape. We 
need to build faster, better, cheaper, and smarter. It is true for 
roads and bridges and also true for our energy infrastructure.
  Let me conclude by telling you that this article in the Boston Globe 
called on leaders in the Northeast to stop prioritizing short-term 
political gains at the expense of energy security and the environment. 
I urge my colleagues in the Senate to do the same. We should be talking 
about not just energy security and energy independence and not being 
dependent on foreign sources of energy from our enemies but focus on 
American energy, U.S. energy, and American jobs. We certainly shouldn't 
put America in a position of being dependent on Russia or others to 
heat our homes and power our economy. We should all support responsible 
energy infrastructure development so American communities can run on 
American energy.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Colorado.
  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Wyoming for his 
remarks on American energy and American energy independence, 
particularly the work we have done in Wyoming and Colorado. When you 
think about the opportunities we have to free up markets for Colorado 
and Wyoming produced oil or gas, it is truly remarkable.
  The Senator and I also share the great work that takes place at F.E. 
Warren Air Force Base. F.E. Warren Air Force Base has a significant 
role to play in the nuclear triad, with facilities in both Colorado and 
Wyoming. That is obviously something very important to our national 
security.
  One of the other things I think is important to bring to this 
conversation that the Senator from Wyoming talked about is the national 
security component that energy can play and the important role that it 
has. We can export our energy not just to the Midwest or to the eastern 
parts of this country, but we can take that gas produced in Wyoming and 
Colorado and export it to Asia and Europe, to countries that want 
American energy, that desire American energy resources, not energy 
resources from tyrants and dictators like Russia and other places we 
see around the globe.
  This is an opportunity for us to really show, and I commend my 
colleague for his leadership on energy.


               Modernizing the Department of the Interior

  Mr. President, I have come to the floor today to talk primarily about 
the work Secretary Zinke has done in the Department of Interior and to 
thank him for taking a bold approach to modernizing the Department of 
the Interior. I commend him for taking this approach.
  The Secretary knows that 93 percent of all Federal land is located in 
the western part of the United States. This map shows the Federal lands 
around our country. If you look at the eastern seaboard, you can see a 
lot of patches of white, with a few patches of red in Virginia, West 
Virginia, the George Washington National Forest, the Shenandoah 
National Park. In Florida, you can see the Everglades National Park, 
the Great Smoky Mountains, but you can see the predominant shade of the 
western part of this country is red. Red signifies all the areas that 
are owned by the Federal Government.

  Look at the State of Nevada. Almost the entire State of Nevada is 
owned by the Federal Government--is public land. Look at the State of 
Colorado. It is public land owned by the Federal Government.
  Nationwide, the Bureau of Land Management is responsible for managing 
approximately 700 million acres of Federal mineral estate located 
underground and all of the Federal land management agencies' holdings. 
So it is not just land that is held by the Bureau of Land Management in 
Colorado, in fact, they hold even more when it comes to our mineral 
holdings.
  The BLM is also responsible for administering 245 million acres of 
Federal surface lands. As this map points out, nearly all of it in this 
country is in the 11 western-most States and Alaska.
  Historically, local BLM field offices have been diligent and 
effective managers of the public land for multiple use, as they are 
charged to do under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act.
  In fact, when I meet with county commissioners and others in the 
West, they all talk about the good relationship they have with their 
field offices and the good decisions they are able to reach with those 
field offices.
  Although, unfortunately, in recent years, directives and management 
coming from the BLM headquarters in Washington, DC--a long ways away 
from these publicly held lands out West, the 200-plus million acres of 
Federal land held by the BLM thousands of miles away from Washington, 
DC--have favored deep-pocketed, radical special interests over field 
office decisions and the opinions of those who live near and who 
actually use this land.
  Whether it is the withdrawal of mineral leasing or the reduction of 
grazing permits, the concept of multiple use--something that was 
fundamental to the founding of our public land agencies--has fallen out 
of favor with the Bureau of Land Management.
  When you don't live in the communities that are among and surrounded 
by these lands, it is easy to make these decisions that close off 
energy development or close off recreational opportunities or close out 
cattle ranching because the consequences are felt out West, 1,000-plus 
miles away from the decision makers in the Potomac.
  The BLM Headquarters Relocation Act is legislation I have introduced 
to fix this problem.
  I was pleased to see within its budget request that the Department of 
the Interior is planning a modernization of their organization and 
infrastructure for the next 100 years. At the very top of this 
modernization plan should be relocating the BLM headquarters out West. 
Move it out of Washington and put it exactly in the middle of these 
lands.
  Grand Junction, CO, the Western Slope of Colorado, is a beautiful 
place, a great city that can accommodate an agency headquarters and has 
the benefit of a populous that is intimately familiar with public land 
management policy and decision making. It makes perfect sense. It has a 
great airport, interstate access, a county with well over half of its 
land held by public land agencies. It is a community surrounded by 
public land. It is a community that is surrounded by people who are 
affected by those public land decisions. Doesn't it make more sense to 
have those decisions coming from the lands that they are regulating 
than from the beltway of Washington?
  This proposal has strong bipartisan support--Republicans and 
Democrats who agree. Let's put the decision makers into places where 
those decisions are felt first and foremost. Making this agency more 
accountable to the people who have to deal with its management 
decisions by putting its headquarters among the land managers would be 
a huge start and a great recognition that we can modernize this agency 
and this Department for the next 100 years.
  Thank you, Mr. President.

[[Page S1274]]

  I look forward to working with my colleagues on this critical piece 
of legislation, and I look forward to working with Secretary Zinke and 
the Department of the Interior to achieve this goal.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Gardner). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for up to 
3 minutes as in morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                    Department of Labor Tip Proposal

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, earlier today I talked to a server who 
worked in a restaurant in Northeast Ohio, in Trumbull County, north of 
Youngstown, and she is concerned, as I am, about a proposal from the 
U.S. Department of Labor that pretty much legalizes wage theft.
  We know, in this country right now, servers, or tipped workers, can 
be the person who pushes the wheelchair in the airport. I spoke to 
somebody the other day who drove one of those airport carts in the 
Cleveland airport. She makes $5 an hour because she is supposed to rely 
on tips to get up to the minimum wage, but she doesn't always get tips, 
or a server who works in a restaurant, in a diner in Garfield Heights 
or in Chillicothe, OH, and makes sometimes only $2.10 an hour and 
relies on tips. That is enough of a problem--that companies that employ 
tipped workers can pay such low wages--but that is compounded by this 
rule that comes out of the White House and the Department of Labor that 
really is tantamount to wage theft. The rule simply says the tips you 
put on the table at a Denny's or at a Bob Evans, the management--the 
employer--can take those tips and distribute them however he or she 
wants to other workers in the restaurant.
  Now, plenty of waitresses and plenty of waiters and servers give out 
some of their tips, distribute them to the bartender or others, and 
that is their choice, but for the employer to be able to take the tips 
from a worker, from a server, and decide whom to give it to in the back 
office or in the kitchen--someone they are not paying enough to anyway; 
to make up for that--or for the employer to just take the money and put 
it in their pockets, under this rule coming out of the Department of 
Labor--this is the Secretary of Labor and a government that is supposed 
to represent workers, supposed to advocate for labor. This 
administration has turned that upside down, where the Secretary of 
Labor is advocating for employers and basically legalizing wage theft--
taking that money from tipped workers who work so hard.
  We know how hard everybody at a diner works. They are not making a 
lot of money. They rely on those tips. We are going to say--the U.S. 
Government, the Department of Labor, the President of the United 
States--is going to say: Oh, it is all right to take some of these tip 
dollars and put them in my pocket as the employer. Give it to the 
workers in the kitchen whom the company underpays because they are 
going to supplement their underpaid wages with tips. It is mean-
spirited, it is legitimatizing wage theft, and we have no business 
doing it. There are 24 of us who have sent a letter to Secretary of 
Labor Acosta condemning his decision.

  First of all, they did a study and found that this would take 
literally billions of dollars from the pockets of workers. They buried 
that study. We are saying, at least let that study out. Let people 
comment. Almost $6 billion in tips every single year will be lost 
because of this decision. It is a really bad idea. It is mean-spirited, 
and it frankly legalizes wage theft. It should be defeated.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lee). Under the previous order, all 
postcloture time is expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Vought 
nomination?
  Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain) and the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. Rounds).
  The yeas and nays resulted--yeas 49, nays 49, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 40 Ex.]

                                YEAS--49

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--49

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Hirono
     Jones
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCaskill
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--2

     McCain
     Rounds

  The VICE PRESIDENT. On this vote, the yeas are 49, the nays are 49. 
The Senate being equally divided, the Vice President votes in the 
affirmative, and the nomination is confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lee). Under the previous order, the motion 
to reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the 
President will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



