

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S520-S521]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 2338. A bill to amend chapter 55 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to reform the manner in which Border Patrol 
     agents are compensated; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 2339. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for automatic continuing resolutions; to the 
     Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Brown, Ms. Warren, and 
             Mr. Cardin):
       S. 2340. A bill to establish the Federal Labor-Management 
     Partnership Council; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Brown, and Mr. 
             Blumenthal):
       S. 2341. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the processing of veterans benefits by the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs, to limit the authority of the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to recover overpayments made by the 
     Department and other amounts owed by veterans to the United 
     States, to improve the due process accorded veterans with 
     respect to such recovery, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG:
       S. 2342. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to create an innovation zone initiative, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Daines, 
             and Mr. Tester):
       S. 2343. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to establish a task force for meeting the 
     connectivity and technology needs of precision agriculture in 
     the United States; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Flake):
       S. 2344. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to authorize additional visas for well-educated aliens to 
     live and work in the United States, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Tillis, 
             Mr. Brown, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Heller, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Portman, and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 2345. A bill to amend the DNA Analysis Backlog 
     Elimination Act of 2000 to provide additional resources to 
     State and local prosecutors, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2346. A bill to establish an innovative water 
     infrastructure workforce development program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 2347. A bill to amend the Securities Act of 1933 to 
     expand the ability to use testing

[[Page S521]]

     the waters and confidential draft registration submissions, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 2348. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     ensure reliable air service to American Samoa; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

                          ____________________



