

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1253-S1254]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 35--AUTHORIZING THE USE OF EMANCIPATION 
   HALL IN THE CAPITOL VISITOR CENTER FOR A CEREMONY TO PRESENT THE 
 CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL COLLECTIVELY TO THE MEMBERS OF THE OFFICE OF 
                           STRATEGIC SERVICES

  Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr. Blunt) submitted the following 
concurrent resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                            S. Con. Res. 35

       Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives 
     concurring),

     SECTION 1. USE OF EMANCIPATION HALL FOR CEREMONY TO PRESENT 
                   THE CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO THE OFFICE OF 
                   STRATEGIC SERVICES.

       (a) Authorization.--Emancipation Hall in the Capitol 
     Visitor Center is authorized to be used on March 21, 2018, 
     for a ceremony to present the Congressional Gold Medal 
     collectively to the members of the Office of Strategic 
     Services (OSS), in recognition of their superior service and 
     major contributions during World War II.
       (b) Preparations.--Physical preparations for the conduct of 
     the ceremony described in subsection (a) shall be carried out 
     in accordance with such conditions as may be prescribed by 
     the Architect of the Capitol.

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, our Nation's ongoing success and economic 
mobility depends on the skills and education of the American workforce 
and its preparedness to meet and adjust to the demands of today's 
economy. Career and technical education (CTE) programs are an essential 
component to each student's education, giving students the opportunity 
to gain knowledge, skills, and credentials needed to secure careers in 
growing, high-demand fields. Today, approximately 12 million students 
are enrolled in CTE across the country with CTE programs in thousands 
of CTE centers, comprehensive high schools, career academies, CTE high 
schools, and community colleges. Through applied learning, these 
students obtain technical and employability skills that parallel 
workforce demand.
  According to the American Federation of Teachers, 94 percent of 
parents approve of expanding access to CTE and other programs that 
prepare students for jobs. CTE ensures that competitive and skilled 
workers are ready, willing, and capable of holding jobs in high-wage, 
high-skill, and in-demand career fields. Throughout Virginia, I've 
heard manufacturers express discontent with shortage of qualified 
skilled production employees--roles that require the instruction and 
training offered in CTE classrooms. It is vital that we heighten 
awareness of CTE's role in helping the United States to meet the very 
real and immediate challenges of economic development, student 
achievement, and global competitiveness.
  This is why today, with my Senate CTE Caucus co-chairs Senator 
Portman, Senator Baldwin, and Senator Young and 41 colleagues in the 
Senate, I am proud to introduce a bipartisan resolution to designate 
February as Career and Technical Education (CTE) month. CTE Month 
offers an opportunity for students, parents, counselors, educators and 
school leaders to become more informed about the educational 
opportunities attainable in their communities, and acknowledge the 
importance of CTE in cultivating a skilled and well-educated workforce 
in our nation.
  Through formal recognition of CTE Month through this resolution, it 
is our hope that we can foster greater support for the importance of 
improving access to high-quality CTE for millions of America's students 
and our country's continued economic competitiveness.

[[Page S1254]]

  

                          ____________________



