

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S300-S301]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 14

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 14, a bill to 
provide that Members of Congress may not receive pay after October 1 of 
any fiscal year in which Congress has not approved a concurrent 
resolution on the budget and passed the regular appropriations bills.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Cochran, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to require 
Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports in 
electronic form.


                                 S. 514

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 514, a bill to direct 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot program to 
provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to 
veterans.


                                 S. 892

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 892, a bill to 
amend the Controlled Substances Act to establish additional 
registration requirements for prescribers of opioids, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 915, a bill to amend title 
II of the Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension offset 
and windfall elimination provisions.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1503, a bill to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th anniversary of the 
Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1576

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1576, a bill to provide that 
the owner of a water right may use the water for the cultivation of 
industrial hemp, if otherwise authorized by State law.


                                S. 2055

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2055, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to better address substance use and 
substance use disorders among young people.


                                S. 2121

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2121, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require reporting of 
certain data by providers and suppliers of air ambulance services for 
purposes of reforming reimbursements for such services under the 
Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2122

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2122, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 regarding reasonable break time for 
nursing mothers.


                                S. 2147

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor

[[Page S301]]

of S. 2147, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create 
a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund to establish a Pension 
Rehabilitation Administration within the Department of the Treasury to 
make loans to multiemployer defined benefit plans, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2152, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to provide for assistance for victims of child 
pornography, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2159, a bill 
to require covered harassment and covered discrimination awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered harassment and covered discrimination complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2174

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2174, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the Veterans Crisis 
Line.


                                S. 2194

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2194, a bill to 
remove a limitation on a prohibition relating to permits for discharges 
incidental to normal operation of vessels.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2236, a bill 
to require covered discrimination and covered harassment awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered discrimination and covered harassment complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2250

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2250, a bill 
to ensure due process protections of individuals in the United States 
against unlawful detention based solely on a protected characteristic.


                                S. 2254

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2254, a bill to prevent 
unfair double taxation by ensuring that the deduction for State and 
local taxes is not reduced, suspended, or eliminated.


                                S. 2271

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2271, a bill to reauthorize the Museum and Library 
Services Act.


                                S. 2274

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2274, a bill to 
provide for the compensation of Federal employees affected by lapses in 
appropriations.


                                S. 2317

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2317, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act to provide for additional flexibility with 
respect to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders, and 
for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 368

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 368, a resolution 
supporting the right of all Iranian citizens to have their voices 
heard.

                          ____________________



