

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2059-S2067]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Patrick 
Pizzella, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Labor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming.


                       Nomination of Mike Pompeo

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I come to the floor as we, as Americans, 
continue to see the regular reminders that the world is a very 
dangerous place. The horrendous reports out of Syria over the weekend 
show us there are leaders in the world who will test the rules that 
define civilized nations. They will exploit any crack that they see in 
our resolve.
  President Trump has consistently responded to these kinds of 
challenges by showing that he is resolute and that he is unshakable. He 
has a foreign policy that always puts America first. To continue to do 
this, the President needs to have a full national security team on the 
job and working for America. The Secretary of State is a very important 
part of that team.
  Tomorrow, the Foreign Relations Committee is scheduled to have a 
hearing on Mike Pompeo's nomination to do this very important job. Mike 
Pompeo understands that if we want safety and security at home, we need 
a world that is peaceful and stable. I expect he is going to talk about 
all of these things at the confirmation hearing, and I look forward to 
his testimony.
  We have all heard about Mike Pompeo's impressive qualifications for 
the job to which he has been nominated--first in his class at West 
Point; Harvard Law School; a Member of Congress; and the Director of 
the Central Intelligence Agency. He has the integrity, and he has the 
experience to serve as America's Secretary of State. As a former Member 
of Congress, he certainly understands how policy decisions get made and 
the key importance of congressional oversight. As head of the CIA, he 
clearly understands the crucial role that the intelligence community 
plays in preserving America's national security. As a soldier, he 
understands the consequences of decisions that get made in Washington, 
DC.
  I have traveled with Mike Pompeo to meet with world leaders and to 
attend national security conferences. He knows the issues, and he knows 
the people. He is the right person for this job. I met with him just 
last month after he was nominated. We talked about some of the specific 
issues going on around the world and how they affect our Nation's 
national security. It was a very good conversation, and I am extremely 
confident that he is the right person for this job.
  I expect many more people will come away from these hearings tomorrow 
with great confidence in Mike Pompeo. He will be an excellent 
representative for our Nation, and he will be a strong hand to 
implement President Trump's foreign policy. So I look forward to voting 
on this nomination as soon as possible after the hearings.
  It was just a little over a year ago that he was confirmed by a very 
large, bipartisan majority for his current job as the CIA Director. It 
was right here on this Senate floor where that confirmation occurred. 
Fifteen Senators from the other side of the aisle agreed that Mike 
Pompeo was the right choice for that position. As the nominee for the 
job he now holds, he drew bipartisan praise for his qualifications. Two 
Democratic Senators actually came to the floor and spoke in favor of 
his nomination--Senators Feinstein and Warner. They are the current 
vice chair of the Intelligence Committee and the former chair of the 
Intelligence Committee. Since that time, Mike Pompeo has done an 
excellent job at the CIA. Even Hillary Clinton has come out and praised 
his time in heading that Agency.
  I expect that this can be a short process to confirm him in the new 
job for which he has been nominated, that of Secretary of State. There 
is certainly no good reason for Democrats to slow things down or to 
attempt to slow things down.
  We need to restore America to a position we once held as the most 
powerful and respected Nation on the face of the Earth. For 8 years, 
the previous administration had us going in the wrong direction. The 
Obama administration followed a policy that it called strategic 
patience. That meant watching while the Assad regime in Syria crossed 
one redline after another. Then the redline became a green light. The 
result is that Syria continues to use chemical weapons today in 
attacking its own people. Strategic patience did not work.
  The Obama administration's policy also meant that North Korea was 
allowed to get away with too much for far too long. North Korea 
continued to test nuclear weapons, continued to test missiles, and 
continued to use hostages as a way of getting what it wanted from other 
countries. Strategic patience did not work with North Korea.
  The Trump administration has said very clearly that the era of 
strategic patience is over. The leaders of these countries need to 
understand that their belligerence will not succeed. They need to get 
the clear message that America has a new foreign policy. It is a policy 
to secure America's national interests and demonstrate America's 
leadership around the world. Part of this leadership is to stand up to 
show that there is a limit to the patience of the civilized countries 
of the world. The previous administration too often placed 
international opinion ahead of what was actually best for America. That 
only made the world a more dangerous place. The Trump administration 
has begun to get us back on the right track, and Mike Pompeo will 
ensure that we stay on the right track.
  When it comes to issues like the upcoming discussions with North 
Korea, Mike Pompeo understands the risks of dealing with these kinds of 
aggressive adversaries. He also understands the opportunities that we 
now have because of President Trump's forceful stand for American 
interests.
  Democrats should commit to allowing this nomination to move as 
quickly as possible. We will have a hearing tomorrow. We need to have a 
thorough discussion about what is happening around the world, and then 
we need to vote. Let's not have any more of the deliberate delays that 
we have been seeing by the Democrats in this body--no more pointless 
and partisan obstruction.
  America's adversaries around the world are watching closely--in 
Russia, in Syria, in North Korea, in Iran, and in other places. It is 
time for us to show that we are serious about maintaining a strong 
foreign policy that

[[Page S2060]]

puts America first. President Trump is doing his part. Mike Pompeo is 
ready to do his part in his job. It is now time for the Senate to do 
our job.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                50th Anniversary of the Fair Housing Act

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, 50 years ago today, Congress enacted the 
Fair Housing Act, exactly 1 week after the assassination of Martin 
Luther King as he fought for economic justice for sanitation workers in 
Memphis. It also came just weeks after the Kerner Commission issued its 
report on the origins of urban unrest in the 1960s. This report 
contained the now famous warning that ``our nation is moving toward two 
societies, one black, one white--separate and unequal.''
  In the wake of these events, the Fair Housing Act made discrimination 
in the sale, rental, and financing of housing illegal for the first 
time. For generations, redlining, restrictive covenants, and outright 
discrimination kept families of color locked out of entire 
neighborhoods, often far from where jobs were, and they created 
segregated communities that linger to this day. They denied these 
families the opportunity to build wealth through home ownership. Many 
of these exclusionary practices were carried out by private entities 
and local governments. But as Richard Rothstein reminds us in his new 
book, ``The Color of Law''--and I recommend to everybody listening that 
they read that book--Federal policies also played a significant role in 
reinforcing segregation.
  From 1934 through 1962--30 years, three decades--98 percent of all 
FHA mortgages went to White homeowners. In a country that in those days 
was about 10 percent African American, 98 percent of mortgages went to 
White homeowners. The Fair Housing Act made this despicable 
discrimination illegal. It required that Federal housing and urban 
development grants be administered in a way that would ``affirmatively 
further'' fair housing--not in a reactive way but in a way that would 
affirmatively further fair housing. State and local governments and 
public housing authorities were required to use their Federal funds in 
ways that would reverse, rather than accelerate or reinforce, 
segregation in their communities.
  April 11, 1968, however, was not the end of our work to ensure fair 
housing and equal opportunities. Fifty years later, we haven't had the 
progress we should have had, and so much more needs to be done.
  A new report this year from the Center for Investigative Reporting 
analyzed tens of millions of mortgage records and found that all across 
the country people of color are far more likely--even holding constant 
for economic situations--to be turned down for a loan, taking into 
account factors like their income and the size of the loan. We know 
that the 2008 housing crisis hit communities of color particularly 
hard.
  In the run-up to the crisis, faulty mortgages were targeted to people 
of color. Even those who qualified for a no-frills, no-surprises prime 
mortgage were often instead steered into a subprime, much riskier loan. 
Even African-American and Hispanic borrowers with higher incomes than 
other borrowers found themselves in risky, subprime, designed-to-fail 
products. These practices of discrimination stripped a generation's 
worth of equity from communities that had fought hard for equal access 
to home ownership.
  I know in my community in Cleveland, on the southeast side of 
Cleveland in the Broadway, Harvard area of that community, so much 
wealth has been lost. As people finally began to gain in home ownership 
and in wealth accumulation, what happened in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 
2010, and 2011 devastated these communities. As a number of my 
colleagues have heard me say, in my ZIP Code of 44105, in Cleveland, 
OH, in the first half of 2007, there were more foreclosures than any 
ZIP Code in the United States of America.
  The household wealth of communities of color still hasn't recovered. 
My neighborhood hasn't, my community hasn't, and my State hasn't. 
Middle-class Black and Hispanic families lost half their wealth from 
2007 to 2013--half their wealth. Middle-income Black household wealth 
was $63,000 in 2007. A decade later, it was $38,000. The numbers are 
similar for Hispanic households--$85,000 down to $46,000.
  Borrowers with these higher cost loans were foreclosed on at about 
triple the rate of borrowers with standard, 30-year, fixed-rate 
mortgages. Over a recent 8-year period, 9.3 million homeowners lost 
their homes through foreclosure, distress sales, or surrendering their 
home to the lender.
  After the crisis, we took steps to fight this discrimination. We 
created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to look after bank 
customers and to help root out discrimination. We required lenders to 
report more detailed data so that we can more easily spot modern-day 
redlining.
  In 2015, HUD also issued the affirmatively furthering fair housing 
rule. This rule would have given clearer guidelines to communities to 
help them assess their own fair housing needs and provided them with 
the data they needed to inform their decisions. It would have allowed 
them to set their own goals and timelines.
  Some of the questions communities would ask during these assessments 
would demand they think in new ways about how to create housing and 
economic opportunities for all of their residents--no matter their 
color, no matter family size, no matter their disability if they have 
one. These are the types of questions this body told the country to ask 
when it enacted the fair housing bill five decades ago.
  But instead of recommitting ourselves to the promise we made 50 years 
ago, too many Washington politicians are trying to take us backward. 
Earlier this year, HUD suspended implementing the affirmatively 
furthering fair housing rule. That will not reverse the requirements of 
the Fair Housing Act. Instead, it hurts communities, which will once 
again be left to comply with the law without the technical assistance 
they need.

  Remember that new data that banks were going to report to make it 
easier to spot lenders who discriminate? The bill the Senate passed 
last month right here would exempt 85 percent of banks from reporting 
the data they are collecting and reporting today. So we are not even 
going to know what happened. This body has scaled back the amount of 
data we are trying to gather to stop discrimination. Without it, we 
can't monitor trends in mortgage lending. It will be harder to see who 
has access to affordable mortgage credit and, importantly, who does not 
have access.
  HUD is even thinking about changing its mission statement in ways 
that diminish the importance of combating housing discrimination. The 
administration's actions over the past year make it clear they are 
already wavering in that commitment. For example, in 2017, HUD withdrew 
guidance requiring equal access for transgender people in homeless 
shelters. Let's pick on them even more. According to a report in the 
New York Times, Dr. Carson's HUD has suspended several anti-
discrimination investigations, including an investigation of 
discriminatory housing advertisements on Facebook. The administration 
proposed a 14-percent cut to the HUD budget, including affordable 
housing and community development programs aimed at creating housing 
and opportunity for low-income communities.
  We know that one-fourth of renters in this country spend at least 50 
percent of their income on housing. If one thing goes wrong in their 
lives, they are evicted or they lose their homes. One-fourth of people 
in this country who rent are paying at least half their income in 
housing costs. In Cuyahoga County, the second most populous county in 
Ohio, one-fourth of all family units, one-fourth of all residents, 
homeowners or renters, spend one-half of their income on housing, so it 
is not just renters, but it is often homeowners too.
  We are deciding in this body because the President wants to--the far 
right in this body wants to cut spending on housing even more. We have 
enough money to do a huge tax cut for the

[[Page S2061]]

richest people in the country. The richest 1 percent will get 81 
percent of that tax cut. I was talking to an accountant the other day 
in Elyria, OH. It is tax season, of course, and he is busy. He said: 
When people come and see me, they ask inevitably when I am doing their 
taxes ``Well, how does this tax bill affect me?''
  He asks: Are you a billionaire?
  They laugh and say: Of course not.
  He then says: Well, only if you are a billionaire will it affect you, 
and then you will save millions of dollars on your taxes.
  That is a bit of an exaggeration, but that is what that tax bill is 
all about. So if you are a billionaire, if you are a decamillionaire, 
if you made a million dollars last year, you are going to save a whole 
lot on your taxes this year. But if you are living in working-class 
housing, if you can't afford much more than the very basic kind of 
housing or even worse than that, you are going to see your budget cut. 
You are going to see fewer vouchers. You are going to see less funding 
for housing.
  What kind of government is this, this mean-spiritedness? There are 
more tax cuts for the richest in this country, but let's stick it to 
people who are barely making it. These are people who make $10 to $12 
an hour. They make $10 to $12 an hour, and we are going to cut their 
Medicaid. They are making $10 to $12 an hour, and we are going to scale 
back their SNAP benefits. They are making $10 to $12 an hour, and we 
are going to undermine their housing subsidies. What is all of that 
about in this new government that we are living in now?
  The last thing we ought to do at a time when a quarter of all renter 
households--400,000 families in my State of almost 12 million, 400,000 
families pay half of their income in housing costs. Again, if one thing 
goes wrong, if their car breaks down going to work, could they come up 
with $500 to fix their car? Probably not. Then what happens? Then they 
are evicted, and then everything goes upside down because they can't 
pay their rent, so they get evicted. The kid has to go to a new school 
district. They lose most of the things they have. They have to find a 
place to live. They probably don't have the money for the downpayment 
that a landlord charges.
  A few years ago, I hosted a discussion with some of my colleagues and 
invited Matthew Desmond, the author of the book ``Evicted.'' In the 
front of the book, he scribbled the phrase ``Home = Life.'' If you 
don't have decent housing, it is pretty hard to put a stable life 
together for you and your family. One of the things he said in that 
book is that when you get your paycheck every 2 weeks or once a month, 
the rent eats first. You have to pay your rent. If you can't afford to 
pay your rent or you can barely afford to pay your rent, you can't do 
much else. That simple statement captures so much--a safe, stable home 
is the foundation for opportunities.
  This government is going to give tax cuts to the richest people in 
the country, and we are pulling the rug out from under people who are 
working every bit as hard as we do in this body--and many of them work 
harder than we do--just trying to get along on $8 or $10 or $12 an 
hour. We are denying people the opportunity of living in a safe, stable 
home. That is why we must redouble our commitment to fair housing. That 
is why we must take real, proactive steps.
  My colleagues and I have legislation, the Fair and Equal Housing Act 
of 2017, that would add gender identity and sexual orientation to those 
protected from discrimination under the Fair Housing Act. Rather than 
take us backward, we must take these sorts of actions to give more 
Americans the opportunity to have a safe, stable home and to build 
wealth through home ownership. We must constantly work toward Dr. 
King's vision--killed 50 years ago this month--of equality and equal 
opportunity for all.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from West Virginia.


                      Nomination of Andrew Wheeler

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to speak 
today about the nomination of Andrew Wheeler to be the Deputy 
Administrator of the EPA--an extremely important position.
  Mr. Wheeler's expertise and experience make him extraordinarily 
qualified to become the Deputy Administrator. I am a little biased when 
it comes to Mr. Wheeler because he has great family roots in the State 
of West Virginia, which, to me, is a good recommendation in and of 
itself. I think his wealth of knowledge over the years working on 
environmental policy in the public and in the private sectors is just 
incredible. His knowledge and experience will be a tremendous asset to 
the Agency and to the American people. He understands--watching policy 
being made and helping policy being made himself but also then 
transitioning to the private sector and watching how that policy then 
influences the private sector as well. He has had an active hand in 
significant environmental--energy--and infrastructure policy 
achievements and debates and probably some of the failures that we have 
had, as well as the confirmation of numerous Presidential nominees. So 
Andrew will have a head start. He will hit the ground running, and that 
is what we need at the EPA.
  Andrew was also tasked with coordinating and working with the various 
agencies within the committee's jurisdiction. Most importantly, he has 
been and was tasked with this, so he worked with other agencies while 
he was a staffer.
  Beginning in 2009, Mr. Wheeler went into the private sector, 
continuing his work in environmental and energy policy. Throughout his 
career, he has worked with individuals and stakeholders who run the 
political gamut, and he has left a very positive impression on them.
  During his confirmation hearing in our EPW Committee, he was very 
forthright in his answers, very willing to look deeper into certain 
areas, and very willing to not express an opinion if he didn't really 
know or was unsure of some of the details. Actually, I think he 
exhibited a real curiosity as to how he could make the EPA run smoother 
and better and be more reflective of what the President and we here in 
the Senate and people across this country see as a vision for the EPA.
  I have also been impressed by the number of individuals who know Mr. 
Wheeler and who have come forward and spoken about his expertise and 
his willingness to collaborate on issues all across the country. He has 
had an active role in my State of West Virginia, which is a high 
energy-producing State.
  I urge my colleagues to vote to confirm Mr. Wheeler. They will have 
no regret. I look forward to working with him at the EPA on issues that 
are important to my State of West Virginia and across the country.
  I yield back.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Missouri.


                 Tax Reform and Government Regulations

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, over the last couple of weeks, many of us 
have had an opportunity to spend more time at home than we do just 
going back and forth a few days a week.
  While I was there, I had the opportunity to talk to small business 
owners, employees--people who are seeing their paychecks for the first 
time reflecting what we have done with the tax bill. Both in my 
hometown of Springfield, MO, and around our State, I also heard a level 
of optimism that was very encouraging.
  One of the people I talked to was on the national board of 
manufacturers. A recent poll of the manufacturers looking at their 
confidence level reflected that it was the highest it has ever been in 
all of the time they have been polling on how they see the future.
  Mr. President, where you and I live, in an economy that makes things 
and grows things, we always do better. We are a productive part of the 
country. We don't do quite as well in an advice economy, but we are not 
opposed to an advice-giving economy. We have people who give advice. 
But, frankly, if you put that on top of truly productive capacity and a 
marketplace that meets that capacity, we always do very well.
  As I talked to people, I heard consistently two reasons that people 
feel their optimism is justified and understandably growing. One reason 
is the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. No matter what was said about the Tax 
Cuts and Jobs Act, people who were told it wouldn't help them are 
finding out, when they get their first paychecks, that it is helping 
them. People who were told that the

[[Page S2062]]

investment opportunities that would encourage them to grow their small 
businesses wouldn't be there for them are finding out that they are 
there for them, and they see those things coming. The economy is 
generally seeing money stay where we live that otherwise would have 
gone to Washington, DC. Forty-three different entities have come to our 
offices with ideas about what they are doing.
  The 53,000 State employees in our State--the payroll deduction would 
indicate that this year, $32\1/2\ million from just that group of 
employees that was sent to Washington, DC, last year--it will stay in 
Missouri this year.
  I mentioned on the floor not too long ago that one of our counties 
had reported that their county payroll--that the average county 
employee would take home $1,800 more this year, with the same paycheck 
to start with. That is beyond what they would have taken home last 
year. For all of those county employees put together, in Boone County, 
MO, it would mean that $946,000 will stay in Boone County that 
previously would have gone to Washington, DC. That makes a difference 
in the economy of the county because there are a lot of other people 
beyond those 485 employees who see the same kinds of things happening 
to them, but it really makes a difference for families. That take-home 
pay difference that some people here in the Senate and other places in 
this building would suggest won't matter to families--it turns out it 
matters a lot. And I will say again that it particularly matters a lot 
if you don't have it. If you have all kinds of money, it is easy to 
say: Well, $200 a month--what difference does that make? Let me assure 
you, it makes a difference if you don't have it. Lots of families and 
individuals are beginning to see the ability to do more things with 
their own money.
  The second thing I consistently heard about was just the difference 
in the regulation atmosphere. Earlier this week, a dozen Federal 
agencies came together in an effort to improve the environmental review 
process to allow infrastructure projects to go on more quickly--not 
only to diminish the time it takes to get a project started but also to 
be able to, with more certainty, go out and start the process of 
bidding and acquiring and the things you need to do to make that 
happen.
  There were a dozen Federal agencies working together with a common 
purpose, asking: What can we do to make this system work better? We 
have had up to 29 statutes and 5 Executive orders that resulted in a 
number of different decisions under Federal law that allow those 
projects to move forward more quickly.
  We had a discussion in the Commerce Committee this morning with one 
of the nominees for the Surface Transportation Board who had been 
instrumental in helping put together a more streamlined way to get 
things done if, for instance, you were putting something back exactly 
where it had been. It makes sense to everybody in America that if you 
are building a bridge where there was a bridge, it should take less of 
an environmental impact study than if you are building a bridge where 
there has never been a bridge before. But until right now, those two 
things were not treated in a significantly different way; they were 
treated in the same way. Now, because of legislation that we passed and 
the President signed, they will be treated in a different way, as they 
should have been.
  Location is a great advantage to our whole country. Again, in the 
middle of the country, where I live, I have seen--I think it may be our 
greatest competitive advantage--access not only to the national 
marketplace but to the world marketplace. Generally, we have the same 
things in America. Things that allow us to put infrastructure in place 
more readily and make it more affordable to get it done in a quicker 
way are all good things.
  This week, one of the nominees we will be voting on is the Deputy 
Administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency. Over the last 
decade, based on theirs own estimate, the Environmental Protection 
Agency imposed somewhere between $43 and $51 billion in regulatory 
costs annually. You have to be an incredibly strong economy to absorb 
another $50 billion in regulatory costs from one agency. And that is 
their estimate; you could get other estimates that say: Oh, no, it is 
going to be a lot more costly than that. These are the costs they are 
willing to admit to.
  The current administration has turned the page. I hope that the new 
Deputy Administrator becomes an active part of that. I think the EPA 
has been on the forefront of really looking at the kinds of things that 
are holding back the economy and trying to do things that make sense.
  The EPA Administrator, Administrator Pruitt, quickly got on the job 
of dismantling two of the most costly and burdensome regulations that 
may have ever been proposed by any Federal agency. One is the waters of 
the United States, where the EPA decided that virtually all of the 
water in the country was somehow related to navigable water. Some of it 
might eventually run into navigable water, but the law says that the 
EPA has the authority to regulate navigable water.
  The EPA said: Oh, no, that means any water that could ever run into 
any water that could ever run into any water that could ever run into 
navigable water.
  In our State, that meant that 99.7 percent of the State would have 
been under the EPA authority, if they wanted to exercise it, for things 
that would have slowed down the economy, made it harder to resurface 
your driveway or dig a utility pole or put fertilizer on your field or 
get a building permit.
  It was a ridiculous proposal, and Administrator Pruitt and the EPA 
understood that it is ridiculous--just as, by the way, the courts did. 
The reason this had not gone into effect yet is largely because the 
courts basically said to the EPA, in many instances: You don't have the 
authority to do that. This change was made because the EPA realized 
that they didn't have the authority. Frankly, if they did have the 
authority, it would have been a bad idea.
  There was a power plan that would have been so excessive that, in the 
State where I live, the utility bill would have doubled in about 10 or 
12 years--a power plan that would have added up to $39 billion in 
compliance costs, every single penny of which would have been passed 
along in your utility bill and mine, all of it added to the utility 
bill in ways that just, frankly, didn't make sense.
  The EPA has moved away from that but not away from the idea of 
regulation or environmental control. In fact, Administrator Pruitt came 
to the Thomas Hill Energy Center in our State in April of last year to 
hear directly from workers, from the electric co-op members that 
provide electricity to many of our rural residents, and from ag leaders 
about the impact of that. He listened to that and went back--I am sure 
he did that in other places--and withdrew that rule but at the same 
time proposed a solution for West Lake Landfill, which has been on the 
critical ``we need to take care of this'' list for 30 years.
  The job of the EPA is not to strangle the economy. The job of the EPA 
is to make the environment more protected by doing the things that the 
EPA was designed to do. I think that is what they have been doing--
looking at the rules that don't make sense, trying to be sure that we 
don't do things at the Federal level that cost people their jobs, their 
livelihood, and their opportunities for no reason at all.
  I had a meeting this week--it was Friday a week ago--at the Missouri 
State University, where the head of the Missouri Department of 
Agriculture, Chris Chinn, and the Missouri Farm Bureau president, Blake 
Hurst, and I answered questions for about 45 minutes from a crowd there 
to talk about agriculture and the future of agriculture. Not a single 
question was asked about the farm bill. The questions were basically 
about trade, rural broadband, and regulation. I think you could go to 
lots of other places and say: What do you want to talk about that you 
are most concerned about with the Federal Government, and two or three 
of those topics would come up again.
  Last year the Senate used the Congressional Review Act to block 15 
new major rules that had come up late in the previous administration. 
That act had been used exactly one time since it was put into law, in 
1995 or 1996. It had been used exactly one time during the entire life 
of the law until we were able to look at it and use it 15 times last 
year to eliminate rules that would

[[Page S2063]]

have cost our economy $36 billion in compliance costs. They were not 
rules that we had before. In the case of the last administration, the 
country had gone along without these rules even being proposed for 7\1/
2\ years but, suddenly, on the way out the door, there were all these 
new things that would have held the economy back in a way that, 
frankly, nobody would want to have to do if they were still there to 
take responsibility for it. So we are looking at what we can do in 
regulation, looking at what we can do in transportation, looking at 
what we can do to make us more competitive and allow things to happen 
so the taxpayers have the benefit of a process that works for them 
instead of a process that works with them.
  Rolling back unnecessary redtape isn't just important for 
infrastructure. It isn't just important for individuals. It is also 
important for strengthening our economy. I think we are seeing that 
happen. These people who are willing to serve, like some of the 
individuals we will be voting on this week, are people who are willing 
to give of themselves and their time, their effort, and their energy to 
work for the citizens of our country. We should be grateful to them, 
but we should also be sure that we are watching carefully to be sure 
that they continue to do the kinds of things that create opportunity 
and competition.
  With that, I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cotton). The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  (Mr. TOOMEY assumed the Chair.)
  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Gardner). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, it was about 2 weeks ago that I had the 
opportunity to tour a steel plant in Redding, PA. The plant is owned by 
Carpenter Technology. It is a company that was founded in 1889. It is 
quite extraordinary. It is a vast complex in Redding, PA. They have 
2,000 employees in Berks County, which is where Redding is located, and 
they have an additional 1,200 or so folks throughout other parts of 
Pennsylvania.
  Carpenter Technology is a leading producer and distributor of 
specialty metals, including what they call soft magnetics. As I 
understand it, soft magnetics increase the efficiency and the power and 
the battery life of electric motors. That is one of the main 
applications of these soft magnetics. It is a feature in steel and 
other metals that allows the magnetic properties to be turned on and 
off very rapidly. It is an amazing technology. It is an absolutely 
essential component for all kinds of products, including aircrafts, 
electric cars, even medical devices. It is quite a range of products. 
One of the things I learned, of the many things I learned while I was 
at Carpenter Technology, is that tax reform is working for Carpenter 
Technology.
  While I was there, the CEO announced a $100 million investment, right 
there in Redding, Berks County, PA, to upgrade their capabilities and 
their capacity to produce these soft magnetics. To be more precise, 
they are buying an entire new hot rolling steel mill in Redding, PA. It 
is a $100 million investment in a new mill that will allow them to 
expand their output and meet increasing demand for this really 
fascinating product that they make.
  One of the things the leadership of Carpenter Technology made 
abundantly clear in their press release and in their public statements 
was that they were able to purchase this mill and make this $100 
million investment in their company now because of the tax reform we 
passed. This is exactly the type of capital investment we envisioned 
when we passed the tax reform bill. It was exactly for this kind of 
economic activity and expansion that we wanted to lower the cost of 
deploying this capital and expanding business and generate the economic 
growth and prosperity that comes with this.
  By the way, Carpenter Technology is not an outlier. This kind of 
investment is consistent with the sentiment we are seeing all across 
the country.
  Just at the end of the first quarter--the quarter that just ended--
there was a large survey of American chief financial officers--CFOs--
across the country. It was carried out by Deloitte LLP. It was 
exploring the question of growth expectations for capital expenditure. 
The fact is, their conclusion is that these CFOs anticipate greater 
growth and more hiring. In fact, the sentiment is at a multiyear high. 
Why is that? Here is what Deloitte had to say about it:

       Clearly, there's a high desire for investment in the U.S., 
     and that is coming from just the structure of tax reform. 
     [CFOs] are expecting higher domestic wages, almost 40 percent 
     are anticipating and planning for higher and front-loaded 
     capital investments, and about a third higher research and 
     development. What they've said is because of tax reform 
     they're going to take those actions.

  It is very straightforward. It is very clear.
  So here we are, just 3\1/2\ months since passage, and the tax bill 
has already and continues to benefit workers and businesses, and, boy, 
these are not the crumbs some of our friends on the other side of the 
aisle have tried to suggest they are. There are over 500 businesses 
that we know of--businesses that are sufficiently high profile that we 
have read about and we can track their announcements. These 500-plus 
businesses employ over 4 million workers. Over 4 million workers across 
America have already received bonuses, wage increases, enhanced 
benefits, and increased contributions to their pension plans. It has 
already happened, and it is attributable entirely to the tax reform. So 
the benefits from this tax reform are clearly already flowing to the 
very workers we intended to benefit from it.
  So my friends on the other side have had some struggles in thinking 
about how they can disparage this tax reform. They have come to realize 
that calling $1,000 bonuses and multi-thousand-dollar pay raises crumbs 
is probably not such a good idea. So they have shifted the argument to 
be a kind of class warfare argument.
  I hear two varieties of this most frequently. One is this idea that, 
well, the benefits all flow to the rich. The second is this idea that, 
well, these are greedy corporations that get this tax savings, and they 
just use the money to buy stock back.
  Let's unpack this a little bit. What about this argument that it all 
flows to the rich? Well, there is one problem with that argument. That 
problem is it is not true; it is not true at all because when we did 
this tax reform, we did it in a way that makes the Tax Code more 
progressive. What does that mean? That means that upper income 
Americans--the wealthiest Americans--have an increased percentage of 
the total tax burden. So while everybody gets a savings in percentage 
terms, the savings disproportionately go to lower and middle-income 
workers and a disproportionately small amount of the savings go to 
upper income workers. So when the dust clears, the net effect is 
wealthier people are paying a larger percentage of the total tax bill 
than they paid beforehand.
  So, clearly, the benefits of this tax reform are flowing to everyone 
and disproportionately to low- and middle-income people.
  What about this idea that stock buybacks are such a terrible thing? 
There have been some stock buybacks. What does that mean? That means 
companies have taken the additional pretax cash flow they have, and 
they have decided in some cases that they will take a portion of it and 
return it to the owners of the company.
  It just so happens that about 40 percent of the owners of the public 
companies in America are the people who have saved in their retirement 
plans--401(k) plans, IRA savings accounts, 529 plans, defined benefit 
pension plans. These are middle-income Americans whose savings are 
invested in the stocks of companies.
  In some cases, yes, there have been stock buybacks. That means these 
savers have had cash introduced into their accounts, which then can be 
deployed by the managers of these accounts into new investments, which 
is what happens for anyone who is selling their stock in response to a 
buyback. They get cash.
  What do they do with that cash? They get the chance to reassess where 
they invest their money, making new

[[Page S2064]]

investments, making different investments, reallocating capital, and 
shifting capital to where there is the greatest demand for it. This is 
exactly the way a free enterprise system should work. This is exactly 
the mechanism that allows capital to flow to its highest use and helps 
to encourage still more economic growth.
  Better still, this is just the beginning. We are only 3\1/2\ months 
into this. We haven't yet even begun to reap the benefits--as a 
country, as a society--of this reformed Tax Code. Businesses are 
already responding to the incentives, and with the lower after-tax cost 
of capital we have created, we are seeing increased investment. Whether 
it is a tractor or a new factory or a piece of machinery or a steel 
mill in Redding, PA, that investment invariably requires workers to 
produce that investment, so there is greater job security and more 
opportunities for those workers. But then the company that actually 
deploys that investment, such as Carpenter Technology in the case I 
just mentioned--their workers become more productive; their workers 
have new tools that allow them to command higher wages and a better 
standard of living. That is what is happening, and that is going to 
continue to develop as companies are just now beginning to have the 
opportunity to deploy that capital only 3\1/2\ months into this new tax 
regime.
  I am just delighted that every week that goes by, I learn about more 
Pennsylvania workers and more American workers who are working for 
businesses that are benefiting and enhancing their investments. It is a 
really good-news story.
  Now I will shift a little bit to the CBO report that came out earlier 
this week, which said a few things worth noting. One should be on all 
of our radars, and that is the fiscal challenge we face. We have too 
much debt, and that number is growing too rapidly.
  This fiscal year, the gross amount of Federal debt is $21 trillion. 
By the end of this 10-year window, CBO contemplates that number will go 
up to $33 trillion. This is a huge problem. But I think it is important 
that we stress where this problem comes from. This is a spending 
problem; this is not a revenue problem, and we can see this in CBO 
numbers.
  In June of last year, almost a year ago, CBO projected that over the 
10-year window they were considering at the time, we would have $43 
trillion of tax revenues flowing into the Federal Government, with $53 
trillion of spending--a net deficit over that period of $10 trillion.
  One year later, CBO has updated its projections, and now it is 
calling for $44 trillion in revenue over the current 10-year window. So 
there will be $1 trillion more in revenue, but $56 trillion in 
spending--$3 trillion more in spending. So we go from a 10-year window 
that looks as though the CBO is projecting a $10 trillion deficit to a 
$12 trillion deficit. Clearly the deficit is growing, and clearly it is 
driven by the increase in spending.
  The bottom line is, whether it is $10 trillion or $12 trillion, this 
deficit is way too big. But tax reform is going to enhance the revenue 
collected by the Federal Government by helping us create a larger 
economy to tax. The spending is our fault. That is something we have to 
get under control.
  CBO has observed a couple of other things. They talk about our tax 
reform, and they talk about terrific things. They say in the report 
that the tax reform results in ``higher levels of investment, 
employment, and GDP.'' We can see dramatically different projections of 
economic growth post-tax reform, according to the CBO, than we had pre-
tax reform, according to the CBO.
  In January of 2017, they projected that this year the economy would 
grow 2 percent. But after tax reform passed, they reassessed this year. 
They took the projection of 2 percent for this year, and they said that 
now it will grow 3 percent based on tax reform. That is a 50-percent 
increase in the growth of our economy. That is huge.
  For next year, 2019, they were projecting 1.7 percent growth. Now, 
post-tax reform, they are estimating 2.9 percent growth--1.2 percentage 
points--again, an almost 50-percent increase. These are huge increases, 
and they explain it. They say: ``The largest effects on GDP over the 
decade stem from the tax act . . . boost[ing] the level of real GDP by 
an average of 0.7 percent . . . over the 2018-2028 period.''
  The fact is, this tax bill is already working. It is making the 
structural changes in the Tax Code that create a greater incentive for 
businesses to invest. It is making American companies and American 
workers more competitive than we have been in a very, very long time. 
It is going to increase the capital stock, the invested assets in our 
businesses that allow our workers to become more productive, and it is 
going to continue to allow those more productive workers to earn higher 
wages.
  Let's be honest. No one can prove with certainty what the future 
holds, so it is worth looking at what is happening in the present. As a 
result of our tax reform, what is happening today, what is happening in 
the present is this: Millions of Americans have been receiving bonuses; 
millions of Americans have been receiving pay raises; millions of 
Americans have seen increases in their pension contributions; millions 
of Americans have seen an increase in the value of their pensions; and 
millions of Americans--like the workers at Carpenter Technology--have 
seen greater job security and greater opportunity as their employers 
are investing in their companies, and that is already beneficial for 
all of us.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from South Dakota.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, as my colleague from Pennsylvania has 
pointed out, the recently passed tax bill is already having a profound 
impact on the economy, and, as the Congressional Budget Office report 
points out, over the course of the next decade, it will significantly 
increase economic growth in the economy and increase the number of 
jobs. It said that over 1 million jobs would be created as a result of 
the passage of the tax bill.
  To his point, as well, they talk about deficits and debt projected 
out into the future, which clearly are major issues but, again, I would 
point out, are a result of the rate of growth in spending and not of 
the impact of the revenues generated by lowering taxes because when you 
get greater growth in the economy, it means that more people are taking 
realizations and more people are paying taxes. The Congressional Budget 
Office, as a rule of thumb, suggests that for each percentage--a 1-
percent increase in growth of the economy--you get about $3 trillion in 
additional revenue over the course of a decade.
  If we assume, and I believe we will--even the CBO, which I think is 
very conservative in terms of growth estimates, suggests that there is 
higher growth attributable largely to the changes we made in the Tax 
Code, reducing taxes on families in this country and reducing taxes on 
our small businesses, which incentivize them to expand and grow their 
operations and, therefore, create better paying jobs and higher wages, 
but also will generate more revenue coming in to the Federal coffers.
  Clearly, the issue that we have in terms of the debt picture in the 
long term is not about revenue; it is about spending, which is growing 
dramatically over that next decade, particularly in what we refer to as 
mandatory spending or entitlement programs. This cries out, I would 
argue, for reforms in entitlement programs. But to say that somehow tax 
reform is contributing to that is a far cry from the truth, and I think 
the Congressional Budget Office numbers bear that out. Again, I would 
argue that in terms of what they suggest we are going to see in growth 
as a result of the changes we made in the Tax Code, I believe it is 
going to be dramatically understated.
  When it came time to draft tax reform, Republicans really had two 
goals in mind. First, we wanted to put more money in the pockets of 
hard-working Americans, and we wanted to do that right away. Second, we 
wanted to create the kind of economy that would give Americans access 
to economic security for the long term.
  Less than 4 months after we passed this bill, I am proud to report 
that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has already achieved the first goal and 
is well on its way to achieving the second.
  To put more money in Americans' pockets, we lowered tax rates across 
the board for American families, nearly doubled the standard deduction, 
and

[[Page S2065]]

increased the child tax credit to $2,000, doubling the amount that 
families can deduct per child in terms of the child tax credit.
  In February, that relief started to show up in Americans' paychecks. 
According to Treasury Department estimates, 90 percent of the American 
people are seeing bigger paychecks this year, thanks to the Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act. And thanks to the IRS's new withholding calculator, 
families with children can adjust their withholding to take into 
account the individual tax relief provided in the new tax law, in 
particular, the increased child tax credit. That means even more in the 
paychecks of hard-working Americans without their having to wait until 
they file their 2018 tax returns next year.
  When it came to our second goal, we knew that the only way to give 
Americans access to real long-term economic security was to ensure they 
had access to good jobs, good wages, and real opportunities. We knew 
that the only way to guarantee access to good jobs, wages, and 
opportunities was to make sure businesses had the ability to create 
them.
  Before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, our Tax Code wasn't helping 
businesses to create jobs or to increase opportunities for workers. In 
fact, it was doing the exact opposite. Large and small businesses were 
weighed down by high tax rates and growth-killing tax provisions, and 
all the regulatory and compliance burdens that came along with them.
  Our outdated international tax rules left America's global businesses 
at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy. That had real 
consequences for American workers. A small business owner struggling to 
afford the annual tax bill for their business was highly unlikely to be 
able to hire a new worker or to raise wages. A larger business 
struggling to stay competitive in the global marketplace while paying 
substantially higher tax rates than its foreign competitors too often 
had limited funds to expand or increase its investment here in the 
United States.
  When it came time for tax reform, we set out to improve the playing 
field for American workers by improving the playing field for 
businesses as well. To accomplish that, we lowered tax rates across the 
board for owners of small and medium-sized businesses, farms, and 
ranches. We lowered our Nation's massive corporate tax rate, which 
until January 1, was the highest corporate tax rate in the developed 
world. We expanded business owners' ability to recover investments they 
make in their businesses, which will free up cash that they can 
reinvest in their operations and their workers. We brought the U.S. 
international tax system into the 21st century by replacing our 
outdated worldwide system with a modernized territorial tax system so 
that American businesses are not operating at a disadvantage next to 
their foreign competitors.
  The goal in all of this was to free up businesses to increase 
investments in the U.S. economy, hire new workers, and increase wages 
and benefits. I am happy to report that this is exactly what they are 
doing. Since tax reform became the law of the land, we have seen a 
steady drumbeat of businesses announcing good news for American 
workers. So far, more than 500 companies, and counting, have announced 
pay raises, bonuses, 401(k) match increases and other benefits, 
business expansions, and utility rate cuts: Starbucks, McDonald's, 
Jergens, McCormac & Company, Apple, Best Buy, Walmart, Bank of America, 
ExxonMobil, Hormel Foods, UPS, and American Express. And the list goes 
on and on.
  I don't need to tell anyone that Americans had a tough time during 
the last administration or that our economy had stagnated. But under 
Republican leadership, we are finally starting to see the economy turn 
around, and tax reform is playing a very big part. Unfortunately, 
Democrats seem unable to accept the fact that tax reform is benefiting 
middle-class Americans. In fact, Democrats recently introduced an 
infrastructure plan that they want to pay for by repealing features of 
the tax law that are producing so many new benefits for American 
workers.
  Republicans wanted Democrats to join us in the process of drafting 
tax reform. After all, a lot of the provisions in the final bill were 
the result of years of work by Republicans and Democrats. I was a part 
of that process. We had working groups that spent a good amount of time 
looking at every element and feature of the Tax Code--bipartisan groups 
of Republicans and Democrats, working together, making recommendations 
about things that we could do to reform our Tax Code in a way that 
would incentivize greater growth and expansion and better jobs and 
higher wages.
  Democrats had previously expressed their support for things that 
became key parts of the bill, like lowering our Nation's massive 
corporate tax rate. Unfortunately, instead of working with us, 
Democrats chose to play politics. Apparently, it was more important to 
them to attempt to score political points against Republicans than to 
work on a bill that they knew had the potential to help the American 
people. Almost 4 months after the bill's passage, they are still 
playing politics, despite the fact that in the face of the bill's 
success, their attempts to criticize it are sounding pretty desperate.
  Take their attempt to portray the bill's benefits for workers as 
``crumbs.'' Let me tell you that a worker whose salary just increased 
by $3 an hour does not see that additional $500 a month as crumbs, 
especially when you combine it with the rest of the tax relief in the 
new tax law. A worker who gets an increased match in her 401(k) account 
will see her retirement savings increase significantly as a result of 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and she will not see that benefit as crumbs.
  It is too bad that Democrats can't accept the fact that the Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act is working. At the very least, they should stop trying to 
undo the benefits that it is bringing to the American people. Over 500 
companies across this country have announced increases in wages, 
increases in benefits, and bonuses--direct benefits to American 
workers, to the tune of over 5 million Americans who already have 
benefitted from this. That is the short-term impact that we have seen 
already.
  The American people spent long enough in a stagnant economy. It is 
time to get this economy jump-started and to see those wages and those 
good-paying jobs come back into this economy so that American families 
can benefit, can experience, and can enjoy a better standard of living, 
a higher quality of life, an opportunity to do more for their children, 
to help them with their college education, to set aside a little bit 
for retirement, and to take care of those day-to-day bills.
  Fifty percent of the American people, according to polls, say they 
are living paycheck to paycheck. One thing we can do to help them is to 
make that paycheck bigger and, hopefully, to put them in a position 
where they can put aside a little bit for retirement and where, maybe, 
they can help save up for their kids' college education, and maybe take 
a vacation with the family.
  There are so many ways in which the benefits of this bill are 
delivered to the American people and to American families and can help 
them in their daily lives. We shouldn't try and go back. We ought to 
try to go forward and recognize that the near-term benefits of this 
bill are very real to American workers. The long-term benefits are 
going to be, I think, even more beneficial to American workers, to 
American businesses, and to American families because not only now will 
they benefit from the lower tax rates that are delivered to the entire 
tax table, but they are also benefiting from the doubling of the 
standard deduction, the doubling of the child tax credit, and all the 
other benefits that are included in this bill. American businesses, 
small and large, are also seeing those benefits on a daily basis, so 
much so that they have already made these commitments to over 5 million 
Americans. That is 500 companies that are paying out bonuses, higher 
pay, and bigger benefits for their workers. That is only going to 
increase over time as this economy starts to take off because they now 
have an incentive to expand and grow their operations through reduced 
rates, when it comes both to large and small businesses, through the 
ability to recover their costs more quickly and to free up that capital 
with which they can invest in and expand and grow this economy and 
create those better paying jobs.
  This is a win-win for the American people. It is a win-win for our 
country.

[[Page S2066]]

I hope our colleagues on the other side of the aisle will quit 
referring to it as ``crumbs'' because I know the American people don't 
see it that way.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The assistant bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to oppose in 
the strongest terms the nomination of Patrick Pizzella as Deputy 
Secretary of Labor.
  With this nomination President Trump is once again breaking his 
promise to put workers first. Mr. Pizzella has a record that is time 
and again at odds with the goals of the very Department he would help 
to lead as Deputy Secretary. His track record is one of not merely 
failing workers but of failing to enforce laws to protect the health 
and safety of workers, seeking to diminish workers' rights and 
protections, and undermining the unions that represent and fight for 
them.
  In fact, his record includes working with convicted lobbyist Jack 
Abramoff on behalf of causes that are counter to the mission of the 
Department of Labor.
  In the 1990s, Congress was moving to expand labor and immigration 
protections to the Northern Marianas Islands, a U.S. Territory, to end 
the operation of sweatshops that did not follow Federal labor laws. The 
law at the time let companies bring in foreign workers to toil under 
inhumane conditions. The workers were underpaid. They were forced to 
sign contracts signing away their rights to protest labor conditions, 
and some were even coerced to have abortions.
  The companies operating under these inhumane conditions were able to 
print the words ``Made in the U.S.A.'' on their products.
  While Congress was looking to take action to change the law so we 
could better protect workers, Pizzella was working with Abramoff to 
coordinate all-expense-paid trips for dozens of Republican lawmakers 
and staff and seeking to maintain the sweatshop status quo.
  Patrick Pizzella chose not to work for workers but for corporations. 
These efforts are not just counter to the mission of the Department of 
Labor, they are counter to our national values.
  The rest of Mr. Pizzella's record shows that he has taken equally 
extreme positions throughout his career. Take, for example, his radical 
record as the sole employee of the Conservative Action Project, a far-
right group funded by billionaire donors like the DeVos family, or his 
record when he last served in the Department of Labor. Under his 
leadership, the Department of Labor cut its budget in part by cutting 
down its own employees' collective bargaining rights and decreasing 
official time.
  Then there is his long record championing anti-union policies and 
arguing to limit collective bargaining rights.
  At the Federal Labor Relations Authority, Pizzella not only ruled 
consistently against workers and unions, but he repeatedly broke with 
longstanding policy by calling out the names of individual workers in 
his decisions. He chose to call out defendants by name and put them in 
the public spotlight. The pattern of Mr. Pizzella's anti-worker 
ideology is clearly unchanged today. Throughout his career, Mr. 
Pizzella's record has been alarmingly consistent. From his years 
serving as the right hand to Jack Abramoff until now, he has shown that 
he is not going to fight for workers. He will fight against them.
  It would be irresponsible to put a man with such a strong track 
record of anti-worker conviction a tweet away from leading the 
Department of Labor. It is unconscionable that someone of Mr. 
Pizzella's background would be the No. 2 leader at the Department of 
Labor. It is unacceptable that he could be in line to serve as Acting 
Secretary should Secretary Acosta leave the Department.
  I strongly oppose his nomination. I will be voting against him, and I 
encourage our colleagues to do the same.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lee). The Senator from Colorado.


                             Opioid Crisis

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, over the past couple of weeks Congress 
and the Senate had its State work period, and during that time we go 
back to our State and travel, listening to our constituents. I had the 
incredible opportunity to go to Colorado and spend time on the Front 
Range, on the I-25 Corridor, where the vast majority of the population 
of Colorado lives, and also spent some time in Western Colorado, which 
most people identify as being where they travel to Colorado, with the 
ski resorts, mountains, Rocky Mountain National Park, and the Great 
Sand Dunes National Park.
  I also had a chance to visit some of the smaller communities in 
Southern Colorado, including an area known as the San Luis Valley, 
where some of the longest living Colorado families have farms. There 
are families and businesses.
  The focus of this visit was about how we grow the economy in the San 
Luis Valley, the Eastern Plains, and the Western Slope--areas that 
haven't seen as much economic growth as, perhaps, Denver, Fort Collins, 
or Colorado Springs.
  I also wanted to spend some time getting into the community and 
talking about a couple of the issues they face when it comes to the 
opioid crisis that this country faces. Over the past several years, a 
great deal of attention has been paid to prescription drug addiction 
and to prescription drug overdoses.
  My home State of Colorado actually has an average that exceeds the 
national average when it comes to prescription addiction and overdose. 
We are losing a person in Colorado to drug overdose every 36 hours--far 
too many people. In our rural communities, it is not just the wealthy 
who are immune or the poor who are immune or the poor who are affected 
or the wealthy who are affected. It is everyone--wealthy, poor, low- 
and high-income. The opioid crisis and prescription drug addiction have 
affected every nook and cranny of our communities.
  The attention that has been paid to the addiction crisis in this 
country has resulted in some of the greatest bipartisan achievements 
Congress has had over the past several years. The passage of the 21st 
Century Cures Act will expedite new treatment methods through the FDA 
and provide research treatment dollars for the opioid crisis and the 
prescription drug crisis and addiction.
  It also led to passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery 
Act, legislation that had great bipartisan support. People on both 
sides of the aisle worked on this legislation together to pass a bill 
to address what is happening to our communities.
  Every single one of us has a story about somebody close to us, near 
to us, perhaps a friend or relative--probably both--who has fallen 
victim to prescription drug addiction and opioid addiction. Of course 
if you end up with a prescription drug addiction, that one pill might 
be $60 or $80, but you can go out on the streets and find heroin for 
$10 to $15. Now we see the rise of heroin replacing prescription drugs 
and you see the cycle. The drug dealers have figured out a way to lace 
cocaine with fentanyl so that it becomes a little bit more addictive 
and so people are hooked on cocaine more than they already are.
  You know the dangers of fentanyl, a synthetic drug so powerful that 
you can't have a dog sniff for it at the Post Office because it would 
kill the animal.
  During these roundtables that were held in the San Luis Valley about 
opioids, I learned a couple of things. In Alamosa, CO, I learned that 
about 90 percent of the jail population in Alamosa is addicted to 
drugs. At the same roundtable, we talked about the challenges that 
rural communities have in treatment. We know that if a police officer 
or law enforcement officer or paramedic finds somebody who is overdosed 
and they are revived with Narcan, yes, you saved their life. You 
brought them back, but what happens after that? They are left to their 
own devices. Do they return to that abuse? Do they return to that cycle 
of overdose? Without treatment, yes, they will.
  We learned in Swedish Medical Center Englewood, CO, the Front Range

[[Page S2067]]

suburb of Denver, that 1 out of every 10 visitors to the emergency room 
of people who are revived by Narcan or some other treatment after an 
overdose will be dead within a year. So 1 out of 10 who come into an 
emergency room will be dead within a year.
  We know that there has been great success in finding alternatives to 
opioid medication. In fact, Colorado emergency rooms and the Colorado 
Hospital Association, working together with a number of hospitals, 
developed a program called Alternatives to Opioids, or ALTO, which is a 
program that we actually introduced legislation on--Senator Booker, 
myself, Senator Bennet, and others--to try to make sure that emergency 
rooms don't just turn to opioid medication but find other alternatives 
because there are other alternatives. You don't just have to prescribe 
an opioid-based medication.
  As a result, opioid prescriptions out of the emergency room have 
decreased by 36 percent over the 6-month course of this pilot program 
in Colorado. Those are remarkable results. We introduced legislation to 
mimic the same thing and to learn best practices at the Federal level 
so that hospitals around the country can work together, share those 
best practices, identify what works, and use them.
  We have to reform the Medicaid Program so there is no incentive for 
doctors to overprescribe addictive medication. In Alamosa, physicians 
we talked to are entering into contracts with their patients. At San 
Luis Valley Health Regional Medical Center, they are entering into 
contracts with patients about the responsibility that goes with taking 
these powerful, powerful drugs.
  We found new ways to make sure that the pill mills are being 
discovered and abandoned. We try to make sure that people can 
communicate with each other on how these treatments work.
  While I was in Colorado, we talked about the devastation that drugs 
are having on their small communities. We learned about a group of high 
schoolers who are talking to other high schools about the dangers of 
addiction and prescription and drug overdose. They are trying to work 
with each other to stop the cycle and to make sure that people who need 
help find help and hopefully will avoid it in the first place.
  Perhaps, one of the most frightening things that I heard during this 
roundtable--being a parent with three children of my own, I often worry 
about what happens to them when they go to school and what pressures 
they face. Two of them are young now. Our daughter is 14, and she will 
be entering high school. I worry about the pressures they will face 
from their peers. I worry about them, and I worry about what happens to 
our community and to their friends with what is around them. But I 
never thought that I would hear what I heard in the San Luis Valley.
  We were talking about prescriptions and reimbursement from Medicaid. 
One of the providers brought up a challenge that they had with getting 
reimbursement. I later learned from a pharmacist that it may simply be 
a coding problem, and if it were coded correctly, the reimbursement 
would occur.
  This is what this provider said. They were trying to make sure 
Medicaid could reimburse for the nasal spray of Narcan so that children 
could administer it to their parents when they overdosed, because it is 
easier for a young child or a little child to administer a nasal spray 
than to give an injection.
  Kids are given nasal spray so they can revive their parents. If that 
parent goes to the emergency room at Swedish hospital in Denver, CO, 
revived by that child, 1 in 10 of those parents revived will not come 
back again because they will be dead.
  We have done a lot of work in this country, and we have a lot more 
work to do when it comes to opiate addiction and crisis. We have a lot 
of work to do in this Congress to come together and find ways to stop 
this--to break the cycle, to make sure it is easier to prescribe the 
drugs that will help instead of create addictions.
  We have talked to people who said they have to have 8 hours of 
training and certification, which makes it impossible for certain drugs 
to be administered by a physician in the emergency room because they 
don't have time to comply with the paperwork. They actually would 
rather prescribe this drug than the opiate-based drug because the 
opiate-based drug, they know, would create the possibility of 
addiction. Yet this other drug wouldn't. There are more barriers to 
prescribe the drug that wouldn't cause the harm than the drug that 
would cause the harm. So we have a lot of work to do. These aren't 
Republican issues or Democratic issues. They are our families' issues. 
They are our friends' issues. They are our communities' issues.
  I will end it with this story. One of the healthcare professionals we 
talked to told a story of their son who was a golfer--an athlete, loved 
to golf. He was injured golfing, so they wanted to make sure their son 
was cared for so he could recover and go on to a golf career or 
whatever career he had in front of him. They took their son to the 
doctor. Their son was given Vicodin to address the pain from the 
injury. At this point in the story, the mother started to cry because 
she feels guilty and responsible for the very first treatment that led 
down a path of addiction and the eventual death of their son. All this 
mom wanted to do was help, and she now feels the blame of the powerful 
drug that led to the addiction and death of their son. It is not a 
unique story. That story has been shared far too many times around the 
country, and yet here we are once again talking about it.
  So I encourage my colleagues, let's continue the great work we have 
already done. Let's do more. Let's work together, and let's make sure 
we can find solutions this country will be proud of. We will know this 
when our communities recover and people stop dying.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
notwithstanding the provisions of rule XXII, all postcloture time on 
the Pizzella nomination expire at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow and the Senate 
vote on confirmation of the Pizzella nomination; further, that if 
confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon 
the table and the President be immediately notified of the Senate's 
action; finally, that there be 2 minutes of debate equally divided 
prior to each vote.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



