

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1377]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               CONGRATULATING THE CITY OF ALTON, ILLINOIS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Bost) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the city of 
Alton, Illinois. Alton was selected from hundreds of cities nationwide 
to be featured on the reality TV show ``Small Business Revolution--Main 
Street.'' The city will also receive a $500,000 investment for its 
small businesses.
  Alton has a rich history. It is home to historic buildings, and has a 
deep manufacturing heritage. It was the site of one of the Lincoln-
Douglas debates, a route on the Underground Railroad, and home to blues 
musician Miles Davis and history's tallest man, 8-foot-11-inch Robert 
Wadlow.
  These days, Alton is undergoing a small business revolution, from a 
self-pour craft beer taproom to a post office converted into a small 
business hub. And new businesses are popping up all over. It is an 
exciting time for the Alton community, and they can't wait to show the 
Nation southern Illinois' spirit of innovation.


              Recognizing the Determination of Rowdy Loyd

  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the determination of 
a young man from my hometown of Murphysboro, Illinois.
  Rowdy Loyd has cerebral palsy and a nerve disorder, but that has not 
stopped him from trying out for the Murphysboro Red Devils basketball 
team year after year. While he hasn't made the official roster, he 
serves as team manager. Going to every game all through his high school 
career, and every practice, Rowdy had a constant presence with the 
team, coaches, and our community.
  Last month, Rowdy finally got the chance to see game time. Rowdy 
scored 10 points on the night, including a buzzer-beating 3-point shot. 
In Rowdy's own words:

       I got a whole lot of school behind my back, and my family. 
     I've got a lot of people that support me. So it was awesome 
     to know that they all came to the game to watch me play.

  Rowdy, we are all proud of you.


               Wishing a Happy Anniversary to Tracy Bost

  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, if I could, to take a moment. I 
would like to read a part of a particular proverb, Proverbs 31:10-31:

       An excellent wife, who can find? She is more precious than 
     jewels.
       The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no 
     lack of gain.
       She does him good and not harm in all the days of her life.
       She seeks wool and flax and works with willing hands.
       She is like merchant ships; she brings her food from afar.
       She rises while it is yet night and provides food for her 
     household and portions for her maidens.
       She considers a field and buys it, and from the fruit of 
     her hands she plants the vineyards.
       She dresses herself with strength and makes her arms 
     strong.
       She perceives that the merchandise is profitable, and her 
     lamp does not go out at night.
       She puts her hands to the distaff and her hands to the 
     spindle.
       She opens her hand to the poor and reaches out her hands to 
     the needy.
       She is not afraid of snow, for all her household is clothed 
     with scarlet.
       She makes bed coverings for herself. Her clothing is fine 
     linen and purple.
       Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the 
     elders of the land.
       She makes linen garments and sells them.
       She delivers sash to the merchants.
       Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at 
     time to come.
       She opens her mouth in wisdom, and the teaching of kindness 
     is on her tongue.
       She looks well to the ways of her household and does not 
     eat the bread of idleness.
       Her children rise up and call her blessed.
       Her husband also, and he praises her: Many women have done 
     excellently, but you surpass them all.
       Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman who 
     fears the Lord is to be praised.
       Give her the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise 
     her in the gates.

  Mr. Speaker, many may ask why I would read such a Scripture this day 
on the floor. Well, because 38 years ago, tomorrow, I married a 
beautiful young woman who has grown to become the very woman described 
in this Scripture. She is very beautiful and very charming, but most of 
all, she is virtuous.
  With that, I want to wish her an early happy anniversary. I love you, 
Tracy.

                          ____________________



