

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H439-H440]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  GLOBAL HEALTH INNOVATION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 1660) to direct the Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development to submit to Congress a 
report on the development and use of global health innovations in the 
programs, projects, and activities of the Agency.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1660

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Global Health Innovation Act 
     of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. ANNUAL REPORT.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for a 
     period of 4 years, the Administrator of the United States 
     Agency for International Development shall submit to Congress 
     a report on the development and use of global health 
     innovations in the programs, projects, and activities of the 
     Agency.
       (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A description of--
       (A) the extent to which global health innovations described 
     in subsection (a) include drugs, diagnostics, devices, 
     vaccines, electronic and mobile health technologies, and 
     related behavior change and service delivery innovations;
       (B) how innovation has advanced the Agency's commitments to 
     achieving an HIV/AIDS-free generation, ending preventable 
     child and maternal deaths, and protecting communities from 
     infectious diseases, as well as furthered by the Global 
     Health Strategic Framework;
       (C) how goals are set for health product development in 
     relation to the Agency's health-related goals and how 
     progress and impact are measured towards those goals;
       (D) how the Agency's investments in innovation relate to 
     its stated goals; and
       (E) progress made towards health product development goals.
       (2) How the Agency, both independently and with partners, 
     donors, and public-private partnerships, is--
       (A) leveraging United States investments to achieve greater 
     impact in health innovation;
       (B) engaging in activities to develop, advance, and 
     introduce affordable, available, and appropriate global 
     health products; and
       (C) scaling up appropriate health innovations in the 
     development pipeline.
       (3) A description of collaboration and coordination with 
     other Federal departments and agencies, including the Centers 
     for Disease Control and Prevention, in support of global 
     health product development, including a description of how 
     the Agency is working to ensure critical gaps in product 
     development for global health are being filled.
       (4) A description of how the Agency is coordinating and 
     aligning global health innovation activities between the 
     Global Development Lab, the Center for Accelerating 
     Innovation and Impact, and the Bureau for Global Health.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Sires) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks and include any extraneous material on the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?

[[Page H440]]

  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1660, the Global Health 
Innovation Act. I thank Mr. Sires of New Jersey, the ranking member of 
the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, for bringing this forward 
in a timely manner.
  Over the past two decades, we have made unprecedented progress in 
addressing some of the most difficult global health challenges of our 
time. When you think about it, global rates of child mortality have 
dropped by 53 percent. The prevalence of tuberculosis has been cut, in 
fact, by half. Malaria deaths are now down 47 percent.
  Five countries in sub-Saharan Africa once ravaged by HIV/AIDS are on 
the verge of controlling their epidemics. The eradication of polio is 
within reach. The only place it still exists is on the Pakistani-Afghan 
border, which the Taliban controls. As you know, the Taliban resists 
vaccinations. They, in fact, assassinate health workers who vaccinate. 
That is the only reason we have not been able to eradicate this last 
spot where polio continues to create damage to young lives.
  Yet, despite these successes, we still do have a long way to go. Part 
of that is reflected in the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa that 
resulted in 11,000 deaths in 10 countries. It serves as a very stark 
reminder of the global threat of infectious diseases.
  Though global child and maternal death rates have been cut in half, 
there is still an estimated 830 mothers around the world who continue 
to die from preventable causes every day. That is why we talk about 
maternal health.
  USAID is working to address these global health challenges by 
harnessing the power of science, technology, and innovation to develop 
low-cost, high-impact health technologies. They are devoting 
considerable time and resources to developing these innovations.
  This bill makes sure that we ensure that they are being effectively 
deployed. It supports USAID's efforts, while also enhancing 
congressional oversight. It directs the Administrator of USAID to 
report on the development and use of global health innovations in its 
programs, particularly those related to HIV/AIDS, maternal and child 
health, and combating infectious diseases to ensure that our 
investments in global health are deployed and are delivering results.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to support the bill, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this measure. I want to start by 
thanking Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel for their work on 
global health and their efforts to bring this bill to the floor. 
Chairman Royce has put in the time and effort to make sure the Foreign 
Affairs Committee is frequently thought of as the most bipartisan 
committee in Congress, and I thank him for his public service.
  I also thank the Members who have cosponsored this bill, especially 
Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, who has graciously acted as the 
Republican lead. Additionally, I thank the staffers who worked hard to 
bring H.R. 1660 to the floor for consideration.
  Infectious diseases and other health conditions still claim the lives 
of nearly 9 million people each year. Emerging health threats, such as 
drug resistance, pose a serious threat to human health across the 
globe. New vaccines, drugs, tests, and other health tools are 
desperately needed, but progress cannot be made without a sustained 
investment in research and development.
  U.S. investments in global health research are central components of 
U.S. foreign policy to increase national security, strengthen U.S. 
relations around the world, and reduce infectious diseases. The U.S. 
has a legacy of leadership in global health research through agencies 
like USAID.
  This is why I was proud to introduce H.R. 1660, the Global Health 
Innovation Act. This will provide the oversight needed to gain a 
clearer picture of USAID's global health research and development.
  Over the years, research and development projects have greatly 
expanded at USAID, searching for advancements towards an HIV/AIDS-free 
generation, preventable maternal and childhood deaths, and preventable 
infectious diseases.
  This legislation is an effort to keep up with USAID's efforts and 
ensure their research and development activities reflect our goals and 
priorities. This report asks them to provide clarity on their goals and 
metrics to better understand their work.
  H.R. 1660 directs the USAID Administrator to report annually to 
Congress on the development and use of global health innovations in 
USAID programs, projects, and activities. The report must also include 
how the Agency measures progress towards their health-related goals.
  I urge my colleagues to vote in support of H.R. 1660 to allow 
Congress to exercise its oversight powers and ensure USAID's research 
and development efforts reflect their priorities.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, again, I thank Mr. Sires of New Jersey, ranking member 
of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. I thank him for bringing 
forward this timely measure.
  The Global Health Innovation Act seeks to accelerate USAID's work to 
identify, develop, and expand access to low-cost, high-impact health 
technologies that will enhance the U.S. global health security agenda. 
Frankly, that will save a lot of lives.

                              {time}  1445

  What it does is ensure that the time and the resources that are being 
directed toward developing these technologies are put to good use, and 
are put to good use quickly.
  Mr. Speaker, I support this bill and I urge its adoption.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1660.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



