

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S166]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     TRIBUTE TO DR. HOWARD WILLSON

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I am honored to recognize my friend, Dr. 
Howard Willson, as Wyoming's 2018 Physician of the Year. Over the 
course of his distinguished career, Dr. Willson tirelessly worked to 
improve healthcare in Wyoming. His contributions in medical education, 
quality improvement, and public health touched countless patients in 
our State. Outside of medicine, Dr. Willson served Wyoming as member of 
the University of Wyoming's board of trustees and as an officer in the 
U.S. Air Force.
  In addition to his many professional accomplishments, folks in Basin 
and Thermopolis simply know Howard as their family doctor. Multiple 
generations of patients benefited from Howard's caring and 
compassionate approach to medicine. From Dr. Willson's perspective, 
being entrusted to care for his neighbors was the highest compliment he 
could receive.
  While Howard Willson made his greatest impact in Wyoming, he was born 
in the small town of Spring Lake, FL. After completing his 
undergraduate degree from Florida State University, he was commissioned 
as an officer in the U.S. Air Force. Howard then attended medical 
school at the University of Florida and graduated in 1965. After 
graduation from medical school, he completed his internship at the U.S. 
Air Force Hospital at Andrews Air Force Base. In total, Dr. Willson 
served in the Air Force for 10 years, eventually rising to the rank of 
captain.
  Over the next several years, Dr. Willson practiced medicine in 
Florida, where he served as an active member of the medical community. 
Then in 1976, he decided to make the move to Wyoming, a decision that 
has benefited the people of our State ever since. Howard began his 
practice in the town of Basin and eventually moved to Thermopolis. Once 
he arrived in Wyoming, Howard not only became a valued doctor, but also 
an energetic member of the community.
  He quickly became active in his county's medical society and in the 
Wyoming Medical Society, eventually becoming president of the Wyoming 
Medical Society in 1986. In addition, he was an active leader of the 
medical staff of two different Wyoming hospitals, South Big Horn County 
Hospital and Hot Springs County Memorial Hospital.
  In addition to his active medical practice, Dr. Willson was 
passionate about training the next generation of Wyoming healthcare 
providers. In particular, Howard wanted to introduce medical students 
to the joys and rewards of working in rural communities. This is why he 
was an active preceptor in the Wyoming Family Practice program for over 
20 years.
  To this day, medical students in Wyoming are benefiting from Dr. 
Willson's passion for medical education. This is because he was vital 
in bringing the WWAMI medical education program to Wyoming. Folks in 
Wyoming are now very familiar with this program, which allows students 
from Washington, Wyoming, Alaska, Montana, and Idaho to attend medical 
school at the University of Washington. Wyoming joined this unique and 
highly effective program in 1996. As Professor Joe Steiner, former dean 
of the University of Wyoming's College of Health Sciences, said, 
``Howard Willson was instrumental in bringing WWAMI to Wyoming. He was 
also a strong supporter of all health care professions and was eager to 
share his knowledge with students.''
  Aside from teaching, Dr. Willson was passionate about improving the 
quality of healthcare received by Wyoming patients. He served as 
medical director of Mountain-Pacific Quality Health Foundation-Wyoming. 
This organization is dedicated to working with Medicare to lower the 
cost and improve the quality of healthcare. In particular, Howard 
understood that achieving this goal meant serving as a partner with 
providers and healthcare facilities. It was through this work that 
virtually all the patients in Wyoming were helped by Howard's work, 
even though they never knew it.
  Finally, Howard knew the importance of public health in helping keep 
folks well. He served as the public health officer for Hot Springs 
County, starting in 2004. It was only with deep regret that the board 
of commissioners accepted his resignation in 2016. These folks knew 
what an impact Dr. Willson had made on their community.
  Outside of medicine, Howard was always involved in the local 
communities in which he lived. The Governor of Wyoming appointed Howard 
to the University of Wyoming's board of trustees. He served the 
university with distinction from 2003 to 2015. Simply put, all the 
students of the University of Wyoming benefited from Howard's passion 
for making sure that everyone in our state could get a great education.
  Clearly Howard Willson is one of the most accomplished doctors in the 
history of Wyoming. I can think of no person more deserving of being 
our State's Physician of the Year.
  In closing, I would like to congratulate Howard, his wife, Belenda, 
and their six children on this most well-deserved achievement.

                          ____________________



