

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1129-S1130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 11 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, 
2018, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: 
Joseph Simons, of Virginia, Christine S. Wilson, of Virginia, Noah 
Joshua Phillips, of Maryland, and Rohit Chopra, of New York, each to be 
a Federal Trade Commissioner.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, 2018, at 10:30 a.m., to conduct 
a hearing entitled ``The President's Fiscal Year 2019 Budget.''


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a 
hearing on the President's budget and the following nominations: Dennis 
Shea, of Virginia, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative 
(Geneva Office), with the rank of Ambassador, and C. J. Mahoney, of 
Kansas, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative (Investment, 
Services, Labor, Environment, Africa, China, and the Western 
Hemisphere), with the rank of Ambassador.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a 
hearing.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
February, 14, 2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a business meeting and 
hearing on the following nominations: Jeff T.H. Pon to be Director, 
Office of Personnel Management and Michael Rigas, to be Deputy 
Director, Office of Personnel and Management.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., 
to conduct a hearing entitled ``Making Indian Country Count: Native 
Americans and the 2020 Census.''

[[Page S1130]]

  



                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, at 10 a.m. to conduct 
a hearing on the following nominations: Joel M. Carson III, of New 
Mexico, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, Colm 
F. Connolly, and Maryellen Noreika, both to be a United States District 
Judge for the District of Delaware, William F. Jung, to be United 
States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, and Ryan T. 
Holte, of Ohio, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims.


                      Committee on Small Business

  The Committee on Small Business is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, 2018, at 3:30 p.m., 
to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: avid Christian 
Tryon, of Ohio, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, and Hannibal Ware, of 
the Virgin Islands, to be Inspector General, both of the Small Business 
Administration.


                       Subcommittee on Personnel

  The Subcommittee on Personnel of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
February, 14, 2018, at 3 p.m., to conduct a hearing.


            Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support

  The Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support of the Committee 
on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a 
hearing.


                     Subcommittee on National Parks

  The Subcommittee on National Parks of the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources is authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, February, 14, 2018, at 3 p.m., to conduct a 
hearing.

                          ____________________



