

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1765-S1766]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 177

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Colorado (Mr. 
Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 177, a bill to provide for 
congressional review of the imposition of duties and other trade 
measures by the executive branch, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Alabama (Mr. 
Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to 
the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the 
Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to 
amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States 
to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under 
Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 636

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 636, a bill to allow 
Americans to earn paid sick time so that they can address their own 
health needs and the health needs of their families.


                                 S. 936

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 936, a bill to 
designate certain National Forest System land and certain public land 
under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior in the States 
of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilderness, wild 
and scenic rivers, wildland recovery areas, and biological connecting 
corridors, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 943

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 943, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct an accurate 
comprehensive student count for the purposes of calculating formula 
allocations for programs under the Johnson-O'Malley Act, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1091, a bill to establish a 
Federal Task Force to Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren.


                                S. 1106

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1106, a bill to 
designate the same individual serving as the Chief Nurse Officer of the 
Public Health Service as the National Nurse for Public Health.


                                S. 1113

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1113, a bill to 
amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety of 
cosmetics.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2076, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of activities 
related to Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain health 
under the Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2135, a bill to enforce 
current law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check 
System.


                                S. 2269

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2269, a bill to 
reauthorize the Global Food Security Act of 2016 for 5 additional 
years.


                                S. 2398

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2398, a bill to amend 
title 31, United States Code, to provide that

[[Page S1766]]

activities relating to the training and readiness of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces during a lapse in appropriations shall 
constitute voluntary services that may be accepted by the United 
States.


                                S. 2500

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2500, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the women in the United 
States who joined the workforce during World War II, providing the 
vehicles, weaponry, and ammunition to win the war, that were referred 
to as ``Rosie the Riveter'', in recognition of their contributions to 
the United States and the inspiration they have provided to ensuing 
generations.


                                S. 2507

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2507, a bill to 
require short-term limited duration insurance issuers to renew or 
continue in force such coverage at the option of the enrollees.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 7, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt fraternal 
benefit societies have historically provided and continue to provide 
critical benefits to the people and communities of the United States.


                              S. RES. 434

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 434, a resolution 
recognizing the contributions of AmeriCorps members and alumni to the 
lives of the people of the United States.

                          ____________________



