

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H131-H132]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. COFFMAN:
       H.R. 4750. A bill to terminate the granting of temporary 
     protected status to aliens, to provide for adjustment of 
     status for former temporary protected status holders, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself and Ms. Fudge):
       H.R. 4751. A bill to reauthorize the Soil and Water 
     Resources Conservation Act of 1977, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. BUDD:
       H.R. 4752. A bill to establish an Independent Financial 
     Technology Task Force, to provide rewards for information 
     leading to convictions related to terrorist use of digital 
     currencies, to establish a FinTech Leadership in Innovation 
     Fund to encourage the development of tools and programs to 
     combat terrorist and illicit use of digital currencies, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. LUCAS:
       H.R. 4753. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     require the Vice Chairman for Supervision of the Board of 
     Governors of the Federal Reserve System to provide a written 
     report, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. Knight, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 4754. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide prospective construction contractors with information 
     about an agency's policies on the administration of change 
     orders to allow such contractors to make informed business 
     decisions regarding the pricing of bids or proposals, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON:
       H.R. 4755. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to bring 
     the non-monetary policy related functions of the Board of 
     Governors of the Federal Reserve System into the 
     appropriations process, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. TENNEY:
       H.R. 4756. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     establish a blackout period for public communications by the 
     Federal Open Market Committee, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. PITTENGER:
       H.R. 4757. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     modify the appointment process for presidents of Federal 
     Reserve Banks; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. TENNEY:
       H.R. 4758. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     require the Federal Open Market Committee to establish 
     interest rates on balances maintained at a Federal Reserve 
     Bank by depository institutions; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS:
       H.R. 4759. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     revise the membership of Federal Open Market Committee, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             Labrador, Ms. McSally, Mr. Sensenbrenner, and Mr. 
             Carter of Texas):
       H.R. 4760. A bill to amend the immigration laws and the 
     homeland security laws, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Education and the Workforce, Homeland Security, Foreign 
     Affairs, Ways and Means, Armed Services, Oversight and 
     Government Reform, Agriculture, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Natural Resources, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BORDALLO (for herself, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             Gabbard, and Mr. Sablan):
       H.R. 4761. A bill to address the challenges of providing 
     public services to citizens of the Freely Associated States 
     residing in the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Education and the Workforce, Natural Resources, 
     Foreign Affairs, Oversight and Government Reform, 
     Agriculture, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. DEMINGS:
       H.R. 4762. A bill to require the United States Postal 
     Service to designate a single, unique ZIP code for particular 
     communities; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 4763. A bill to require the pursuit of technologies to 
     remove space debris; to the

[[Page H132]]

     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia:
       H.R. 4764. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial 
     Protection Act of 2010 to establish an Office for Under-
     Banked and Un-Banked Consumers; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Engel, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             McGovern, and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 4765. A bill to amend the Arms Export Control Act to 
     prohibit the removal of certain items under category I, II, 
     or III of the United States Munitions List for purposes of 
     transferring the item to or controlling the item under any 
     portion of the Commerce Control List of dual-use items in the 
     Export Administration Regulations; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mrs. Davis of California, 
             Mr. Schiff, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Vargas, 
             Mrs. Demings, Mr. Payne, Mr. Costa, Mr. Raskin, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Bass, and Mr. Hastings):
       H. Res. 683. A resolution recognizing January 2018 as 
     ``National Mentoring Month'', and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



