

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1338-S1340]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 183

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 183, a bill to allow for expedited approval 
of generic prescription drugs and temporary importation of prescription 
drugs in the case of noncompetitive drug markets and drug shortages.


                                 S. 224

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 224, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to prohibit taking minors across State lines in 
circumvention of laws requiring the involvement of parents in abortion 
decisions.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to 
award the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his 
heroic achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle 
East.
  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, supra.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 363

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 363, a bill to revise the 
authorized route of the North Country National Scenic Trail in 
northeastern Minnesota and to extend the trail into Vermont to connect 
with the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home 
health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of

[[Page S1339]]

the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits available to 
participants under such program, to enhance special compensation for 
members of the uniformed services who require assistance in everyday 
life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend 
the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 898

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 898, a bill to provide 
incentives to physicians to practice in rural and medically underserved 
communities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1539, a bill to 
protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1685

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1685, a bill to require 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to establish procedures for considering 
certain credit scores in making a determination whether to purchase a 
residential mortgage, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1746

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo), the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1746, a bill to require the 
Congressional Budget Office to make publicly available the fiscal and 
mathematical models, data, and other details of computations used in 
cost analysis and scoring.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1945, a bill to regulate 
large capacity ammunition feeding devices.


                                S. 2038

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2038, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for a presumption of 
herbicide exposure for certain veterans who served in Korea, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator 
from Kansas (Mr. Moran) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 2076, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of activities 
related to Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain health 
under the Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2101

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2101, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the crew of the USS 
Indianapolis, in recognition of their perseverance, bravery, and 
service to the United States.


                                S. 2208

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2208, a bill to provide for 
the issuance of an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal Stamp.


                                S. 2295

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2295, a bill to 
increase the rates of pay under the General Schedule and other 
statutory pay systems and for prevailing rate employees by 3.0 percent, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2319

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2319, a bill to 
empower States to manage the development and production of oil and gas 
on available Federal land, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2324

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2324, a bill to amend the Investment Company 
Act of 1940 to change certain requirements relating to the capital 
structure of business development companies, to direct the Securities 
and Exchange Commission to revise certain rules relating to business 
development companies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2335

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2335, a bill to authorize the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to issue 
permits for recreation services on lands managed by Federal agencies, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2374

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2374, a bill to 
amend the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 
2012, including making changes to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for 
improved detection, prevention, and recovery of improper payments to 
deceased individuals, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2383

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2383, a bill to amend title 18, United States 
Code, to improve law enforcement access to data stored across borders, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2393

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2393, a bill to amend 
title 17, United States Code, to provide Federal protection to the 
digital audio transmission of a sound recording fixed before February 
15, 1972, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2416

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) and the 
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2416, a bill to amend titles 5, 10, and 37, United States Code, to 
ensure that an order to serve on active duty under section 12304b of 
title 10, United States Code, is treated the same as other orders to 
serve on active duty for determining the eligibility of members of the 
uniformed services for certain benefits.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2421, a bill to amend the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to provide an 
exemption from certain notice requirements and penalties for releases 
of hazardous substances from animal waste at farms.


                                S. 2427

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2427, a bill to establish a task force to identify 
countervailable subsidies and dumping.


                                S. 2456

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2456, a bill to reauthorize 
and expand the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016.


                                S. 2457

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2457, a bill to 
provide a work opportunity tax credit for military spouses and to 
provide for flexible spending arrangements for childcare services for 
military families.


                                S. 2458

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr.

[[Page S1340]]

Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2458, a bill to authorize the 
Attorney General to deny the transfer of firearms and explosives and 
Federal firearms and explosives licenses and permits to known or 
suspected terrorists.


                                S. 2478

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2478, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to deny the deduction for advertising and 
promotional expenses for prescription drugs.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 377, a 
resolution recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those 
individuals who have faithfully served and retired from the Armed 
Forces of the United States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military 
Retiree Appreciation Day'' , and encouraging the people of the United 
States to honor the past and continued service of military retirees to 
their local communities and the United States.

                          ____________________



