

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1948-S1950]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 266, a bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to 
Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic achievements and courageous 
contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 281

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. 
Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 281, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the per-country numerical 
limitation for employment-based immigrants, to increase the per-country 
numerical limitation for family-sponsored immigrants, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the Senator from 
New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill 
to maximize discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of 
promising childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 356

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 356, a bill to 
amend title XXI of the Social Security Act to improve access to, and 
the delivery of, children's

[[Page S1949]]

health services through school-based health centers, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry 
to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 548

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand), 
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. 
Heitkamp), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), 
the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King), the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono), the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth), the Senator 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) 
and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as cosponsors of S. 
548, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform the 
low-income housing credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 601

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 601, a bill to 
ensure that significantly more students graduate college with the 
international knowledge and experience essential for success in today's 
global economy through the establishment of the Senator Paul Simon 
Study Abroad Program in the Department of Education.


                                 S. 834

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 834, a bill to 
authorize the appropriation of funds to the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention for conducting or supporting research on firearms safety 
or gun violence prevention.


                                S. 1022

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1022, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to facilitate assignment of military trauma 
care providers to civilian trauma centers in order to maintain military 
trauma readiness and to support such centers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1112, a bill to 
support States in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers 
during pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to 
eliminate disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related 
and pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve 
health care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1212

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1212, a bill to 
provide family members of an individual who they fear is a danger to 
himself, herself, or others, and law enforcement, with new tools to 
prevent gun violence.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1539, a bill to protect victims of 
stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1774, a bill to provide 
protections for workers with respect to their right to select or 
refrain from selecting representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1989, a bill to 
enhance transparency and accountability for online political 
advertisements by requiring those who purchase and publish such ads to 
disclose information about the advertisements to the public, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1996

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1996, a bill to require 
Federal agencies to address environmental justice, to require 
consideration of cumulative impacts in certain permitting decisions, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2143

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 2143, a bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act to strengthen 
protections for employees wishing to advocate for improved wages, 
hours, or other terms or conditions of employment, to expand coverage 
under such Act, to provide a process for achieving initial collective 
bargaining agreements, and to provide for stronger remedies for 
interference with these rights, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2448

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2448, a bill to 
provide for the issuance of a rule to advance next-generation 
technologies to provide alternatives to hydrofluorocarbons, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2463

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2463, a bill to establish 
the United States International Development Finance Corporation, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2495

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the 
Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were added as cosponsors of S. 2495, a 
bill to reauthorize the grant program for school security in the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968.


                                S. 2513

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2513, a bill to improve 
school safety and mental health services.


                                S. 2521

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2521, a bill to authorize 
the issuance of extreme risk protection orders.


                                S. 2538

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2538, a bill to 
prohibit an increase in duties on imports of steel and aluminum.


                                S. 2543

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2543, a bill to amend 
part B of title IV of the Social Security Act to provide grants to 
develop and enhance, or to evaluate, kinship navigator programs, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2551

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2551, a bill to modernize 
United States international food assistance programs made available 
through the Food for Peace Act, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2574

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2574, a bill to 
provide rental assistance to low-income tenants of certain multifamily 
rural housing projects, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2578

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2578, a bill to amend 
title 13, United States Code, to require the Secretary of Commerce to 
provide advanced notice to Congress before changing any questions on 
the decennial census, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2580

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2580, a bill to 
amend title 13, United States Code, to make clear

[[Page S1950]]

that each decennial census, as required for the apportionment of 
Representatives in Congress among the several States, shall tabulate 
the total number of persons in each State, and to provide that no 
information regarding United States citizenship or immigration status 
may be elicited in any such census.


                                S. 2582

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2582, a bill to provide 
health insurance reform, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2584

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2584, a bill to end 
discrimination based on actual or perceived sexual orientation or 
gender identity in public schools, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 432

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 432, a resolution congratulating the Baltic 
states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania on the 100th anniversary of 
their declarations of independence.

                          ____________________



