

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H477-H478]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself and Mr. Guthrie):
       H.R. 4810. A bill to direct the Assistant Secretary of 
     Commerce for Communications and Information to carry out 
     activities relating to the development and maintenance of a 
     broadband inventory map through the National 
     Telecommunications and Information Administration and not 
     through an agreement with any other agency; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself and Mr. Schneider):
       H.R. 4811. A bill to provide for grants from the Attorney 
     General to local education agencies to purchase and install 
     devices that would allow for the immediate notification of 
     appropriate officials in case of emergency, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CICILLINE:
       H.R. 4812. A bill to amend chapter 83 of title 41, United 
     States Code (popularly referred to as the Buy American Act) 
     and certain other laws with respect to certain waivers under 
     those laws, to provide greater transparency regarding 
     exceptions to domestic sourcing requirements, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committees on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, and Financial Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania:
       H.R. 4813. A bill to direct the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to conduct a study to evaluate the role of 
     unlicensed spectrum in offloading broadband traffic, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Khanna, Mr. O'Rourke, 
             Mr. Pocan, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 4814. A bill to amend the Telecommunications Act of 
     1996 to preserve and protect the ability of local governments 
     to provide broadband capability and services; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Cohen, Ms. Norton, Mr. Rush, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Polis, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Fudge, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Gabbard, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 4815. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     provide for a new rule regarding the application of the Act 
     to marihuana, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Energy and 
     Commerce, Agriculture, Natural Resources, and Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. Amash, 
             Mr. Polis, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 4816. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the use of amounts from the Asset Forfeiture Fund 
     for the Domestic Cannabis Suppression/Eradication Program of 
     the Drug Enforcement Administration, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.

[[Page H478]]

  

           By Mr. LONG:
       H.R. 4817. A bill to direct the Assistant Secretary of 
     Commerce for Communications and Information to make grants 
     for the establishment or expansion of internet exchange 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 4818. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds made 
     available in the form of an earmark, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Appropriations, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALLONE:
       H. Res. 697. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives supporting visits and communication 
     between the United States and the Republic of Artsakh at all 
     levels of civil society and government; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr. Sessions, and Mr. 
             Pocan):
       H. Res. 698. A resolution recognizing magic as a rare and 
     valuable art form; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.

                          ____________________



