

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1247]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO OFFER RESOLUTION RAISING A QUESTION OF THE 
                        PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE

  Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to clause 2(a)(1) 
of rule IX, I rise to give notice of my intent to raise a question of 
the privileges of the House.
  The form of the resolution is as follows:
  Calling on the House of Representatives to immediately consider gun 
violence prevention legislation.
  Whereas, gun violence affects every community in our Nation;
  Whereas, 30 people are killed every day by someone using a gun;
  Whereas, more than 2,200 people have been killed this year by someone 
using a gun;
  Whereas, there have been at least 34 mass shootings this year;
  Whereas, while mass shootings often receive media attention, gun 
violence is present every day in every community;
  Whereas, since the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School, the House 
of Representatives has held 43 moments of silence to honor the memory 
of people killed by someone using guns;
  Whereas, most gun owners are responsible and law-abiding;
  Whereas, the Supreme Court, in its District of Columbia v. Heller 
decision, recognized the right to keep and to bear arms;
  Whereas, the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act was enacted on 
November 30, 1993;
  Whereas, background checks have been successful and every day stop 
more than 170 felons, some 50 domestic abusers, and nearly 20 fugitives 
from buying a gun;
  Whereas, over 2,000,000 gun sales were blocked since enactment of the 
Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act;
  Whereas, 90 percent of all background checks are done instantly;
  Whereas, the States that require background checks, 47 percent fewer 
women are murdered by intimate partners;
  Whereas, in States that require background checks, there are 47 
percent firearm suicides;
  Whereas, in States that require background checks, 53 percent fewer 
law enforcement officers are killed by someone using a gun;
  Whereas, 97 percent of Americans polled support background checks for 
all gun sales;
  Whereas, in many States, no background check is required to buy a gun 
online or at a gun show; and
  Whereas, the President has said, ``Whether we are Republican or 
Democrats must now focus on strengthening Background Checks!''
  Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the House of Representatives 
should immediately consider H.R. 4240, the Public Safety and Second 
Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2017, and H.R. 3464, the Background 
Check Completion Act of 2017.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under rule IX, a resolution offered from the 
floor by a Member other than the majority leader or the minority leader 
as a question of the privileges of the House has immediate precedence 
only at a time designated by the Chair within 2 legislative days after 
the resolution is properly noticed.
  Pending that designation, the form of the resolution noticed by the 
gentleman from California will appear in the Record at this point.
  The Chair will not, at this point, determine whether the resolution 
constitutes a question of privilege. That determination will be made at 
the time designated for the consideration of the resolution.

                          ____________________



