

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1525]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CAPITO. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 7, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to 
conduct a closed hearing.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 7, 2018, at 2:30 p.m., to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Joseph E. Macmanus, of 
New York, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Colombia, Marie Royce, of 
California, to be an Assistant Secretary (Educational and Cultural 
Affairs), Robin S. Bernstein, of Florida, to be Ambassador to the 
Dominican Republic, and Edward Charles Prado, of Texas, to be 
Ambassador to the Argentine Republic, all of the Department of State.


           Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pension is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 7, 2018, 
at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: John 
F. Ring, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National 
Labor Relations Board, Frank T. Brogan, of Pennsylvania, to be 
Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, and Mark 
Schneider, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Institute 
of Education Science, both of the Department of Education, Marco M. 
Rajkovich, Jr., of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Review Commission, and other pending nominations.


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
7, 2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 7, 2018, at 10 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing the following nominations: John B. Nalbandian, of 
Kentucky, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, Kari 
A. Dooley, to be United States District Judge for the District of 
Connecticut, Dominic W. Lanza, to be United States District Judge for 
the District of Arizona, Jill Aiko Otake, to be United States District 
Judge for the District of Hawaii, and Joseph H. Hunt, of Maryland, to 
be an Assistant Attorney General, Department of Justice.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 7, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a joint hearing.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 7, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Open Hearing on Security Clearance 
Reform.''


                       Special Committee on Aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 7, 2018, at 1 p.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Stopping Senior Scams.''


 Subcommittee on Oversight, Agency Action, Federal Rights and Federal 
                                 Courts

  The Subcommittee on Oversight, Agency Action, Federal Rights and 
Federal Courts of the Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 7, 2018 at 2:30 
p.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Small Business Bankruptcy: 
Assessing the System.''

                          ____________________



