

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1735-S1736]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 384, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the new markets tax 
credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 455

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 455, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to count resident time spent in 
a critical access hospital as resident time spent in a nonprovider 
setting for purposes of making Medicare direct and indirect graduate 
medical education payments.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 833

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 833, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to expand health care and 
benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs for military sexual 
trauma, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1084

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1084, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to require that the Director of the 
Bureau of Prisons ensure that each chief executive officer of a Federal 
penal or correctional institution provides a secure storage area 
located outside of the secure perimeter of the Federal penal or 
correctional institution for firearms carried by certain employees of 
the Bureau of Prisons, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1301

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from Minnesota

[[Page S1736]]

(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1301, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for the distribution of additional residency 
positions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current law regarding the 
National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2147

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2147, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust 
Fund to establish a Pension Rehabilitation Administration within the 
Department of the Treasury to make loans to multiemployer defined 
benefit plans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2314

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2314, a bill 
to increase the number of U.S. Customs and Border Protection Office of 
Field Operations officers and support staff and to require reports that 
identify staffing, infrastructure, and equipment needed to enhance 
security at ports of entry.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets 
under direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and 
other figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2468

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2468, a bill 
to provide access to counsel for unaccompanied alien children.


                                S. 2497

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the 
Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2497, a bill to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms 
Export Control Act to make improvements to certain defense and security 
assistance provisions and to authorize the appropriations of funds to 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2507

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) and the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. 
Alexander) were added as cosponsors of S. 2507, a bill to require 
short-term limited duration insurance issuers to renew or continue in 
force such coverage at the option of the enrollees.


                              S.J. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 54, 
a joint resolution to direct the removal of United States Armed Forces 
from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that have not been authorized 
by Congress.


                              S. RES. 424

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) 
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 424, a resolution honoring the 25th 
anniversary of the National Guard Youth Challenge Program.


                              S. RES. 426

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 426, a resolution 
supporting the goals of International Women's Day.


                              S. RES. 432

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. Grassley), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the 
Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 432, 
a resolution congratulating the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and 
Lithuania on the 100th anniversary of their declarations of 
independence.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2180

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2180 intended 
to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, provide 
tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, and for 
other purposes.

                          ____________________



