

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1834-S1835]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH AND TRAFFICKING PREVENTION ACT

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, this week I joined my colleague, the 
senior Senator from Vermont, Mr. Leahy, in introducing the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth and Trafficking Prevention Act. This bill would update 
and reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act programs, which have 
provided lifesaving services and housing for America's homeless youth 
for more than 40 years.
  Homelessness is affecting youth in unprecedented numbers. According 
to a recent study by Voices of Youth Count, an initiative of Chapin 
Hall at the University of Chicago, approximately 4.2 million young 
people experience homelessness in the United States each year. Some of 
these youth may stay away from home for only 1 or 2 nights, and others 
have been living on the streets for years. Approximately 73 percent 
experienced a homelessness episode lasting more than 1 month. The study 
also found that homelessness is as prevalent in rural communities as it 
is in urban communities.
  The Runaway and Homeless Youth and Trafficking Prevention Act would 
reauthorize and strengthen the programs that help homeless youth meet 
their immediate needs, and secure long-term residential services for 
those who, sadly, cannot be safely reunified with family. Three 
programs--the Basic Center Program, Transitional Living Program, and 
Street Outreach Program--help community-based organizations reach these 
young people when they need the most support. These programs help 
runaway and homeless youth avoid the juvenile justice system, and early 
intervention helps these young people escape victimization.
  As chairman of the Senate Housing Appropriations Subcommittee, 
working to end the scourge of homelessness--in both youth and adults--
has been one of my top priorities. According to the National Alliance 
to End Homelessness, there has been a 27-percent drop in chronic 
homelessness since 2007. We must build on this success so that homeless 
youth have opportunities to succeed just as other youth. This bill is 
an important step in that direction.
  The RHYA programs have produced powerful success stories. In 2015, 
the Housing Appropriations subcommittee held a hearing during which 
Brittany Dixon, a former homeless youth from Auburn, ME, testified 
about her personal experience as a homeless youth. After becoming 
homeless at age 18, she connected with New Beginnings, a service 
provider in Lewiston, ME, where

[[Page S1835]]

she received the help and support she needed to develop critical life 
skills and become self-sufficient. She went on to earn a college degree 
and obtain a full-time job as an education technician at an elementary 
school.
  New Beginnings has used RHYA resources to connect with youth who need 
food, a safe place to sleep, health services, and education support. 
More than 135 young people were served at its 24-hour youth shelter in 
2016, where they gained the support to return home safely, find 
independent living options, and deal with trauma, substance abuse, and 
mental health challenges. The Street Outreach Program, which would be 
reauthorized by our legislation, allows New Beginnings to operate an 
outreach drop-in center that reaches more than 500 youth annually.
  Staff at Preble Street, a youth shelter in Portland, leveraged a 
grant from the Transitional Living Program, also reauthorized by our 
bill, to support First Place, a program that helps young people break 
out of homelessness and plan for independent living. They work with 
local landlords to secure affordable apartments for youth who cannot 
safely reunite with their families and help them develop the life 
skills they will need to achieve their goals.
  For more than 25 years, Shaw House, in Bangor, has served Maine youth 
living in five rural counties. The Basic Center Program, BCP, 
reauthorized in our bill, helps Shaw House offer food, clothing, and 
other basic needs assistance, with the goal of increasing family 
reunification and reducing youth homelessness across Maine. In fiscal 
year 2014, 94 percent of the minors who entered BCP exited these 
programs safely and appropriately, and 69 percent were reunited with 
their families. One of the improvements in our bill would allow BCP 
grantees to serve youth for up to 30 days, instead of the current 21 
days.
  Teens run away and become homeless for many reasons. They are also at 
high risk of victimization, abuse, criminal activity, and death. The 
National Center for Missing & Exploited Children estimates that, in 
2017, 1 in 7 of nearly 25,000 youth reported to them as runaways were 
sex-trafficking victims. In Maine, recent reports show that, of the 
more than 10,000 reported human-trafficking cases last year, 26 percent 
involved minors. Several hundreds of these victims identified as 
runaway or homeless youth. This population is at greater risk of 
suicide, unintended pregnancy, and substance abuse. Many are unable to 
continue with school and are more likely to enter our juvenile justice 
system.
  Our bill focuses on this tragic problem by supporting trauma-
informed, wraparound services for victims of trafficking and sexual 
exploitation. Congress has passed legislation in recent years to combat 
these horrific crimes and support survivors, and the policies and tools 
included in the Runaway and Homeless Youth and Trafficking Prevention 
Act are important pieces of the Federal response to human trafficking.
  Homeless young people need access to safe beds at night and 
oftentimes services during the day. A growing number of homeless youth 
identify as LGBT. According to the Voices of Youth Count report, LGBT 
young people are twice as likely to be homeless. Our bill would ensure 
that those seeking services through these Federal programs are not 
denied assistance based on their race, color, religion, national 
origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability.
  The Runaway and Homeless Youth and Trafficking Prevention Act will 
support those young people who run away, are thrown out, or are 
disconnected from families. A caring and safe place to sleep, eat, 
grow, and develop is critical for all young people, and the programs 
reauthorized through this legislation help extend those basic services 
to the most vulnerable youth in our communities.
  I thank Senator Leahy for his leadership on this bill and urge my 
colleagues to support it.

                          ____________________



