

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S297-S298]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT GENERAL FRANK G. KLOTZ

  Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, along with Senator Feinstein, I would 
like to pay tribute to Lt. Gen. Frank G. Klotz, USAF, Retired, upon his 
retirement as the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration.
  Today we pay tribute to Lt. Gen. Frank G. Klotz, USAF, Retired for a 
distinguished career of nearly 45 years. His career began with his 
graduation in 1973 from the Air Force Academy and concludes when he 
steps down Friday after 4 years as Under Secretary for Nuclear Security 
and Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, 
NNSA.
  Lieutenant General Klotz has excelled in many challenging positions. 
As commander of Air Force Global Strike Command, he established and led 
a new organization that merged responsibility for all U.S. nuclear-
capable bombers and land-based missiles under a single chain of 
command. He also served as vice commander of the Air Force Space 
Command, director for Nuclear Weapons Policy and Arms Control on the 
National Security Council, and as a defense Attache to the U.S. Embassy 
in Moscow. A Rhodes Scholar, General Klotz earned a master of 
philosophy in international relations and a doctor of philosophy in 
politics at Oxford University.
  As Administrator of NNSA over the past 4 years, Lieutenent General 
Klotz has been responsible for maintaining the U.S. nuclear deterrent, 
preventing nuclear proliferation worldwide, and advancing the naval 
nuclear propulsion mission. These missions require extraordinary 
dedication, and our Nation is safer today because of his steadfast 
leadership.
  Under his guidance, NNSA made significant advances in modernizing the 
nuclear stockpile and reversed a decades-long trend in the decline of 
America's nuclear weapons infrastructure. His commitment to reducing 
global nuclear threats ensured continued progress in removing dangerous 
nuclear materials from countries around the globe, and his personal 
engagement expanded partnerships with other countries to reduce the 
risks of nuclear proliferation and nuclear terrorism.
  Perhaps most importantly, Lieutenent General Klotz cared about his 
people. He worked tirelessly to improve the work environments of his 
people, increase the focus on safety and security, and foster a culture 
of pride,

[[Page S298]]

employee engagement, and excellence across the nuclear security 
enterprise.
  We enjoyed the many interactions we had with General Klotz. He was 
always happy to sit down and discuss any concerns we had and work with 
us to resolve those issues. He also worked closely with us to get large 
construction projects, like the Uranium Process Facility, on schedule 
and on budget.
  His selfless commitment to serving our Nation has left us safer and 
better prepared to respond to threats around the world. He leaves a 
legacy of service, commitment to people, and dedication to our Nation. 
With our deepest gratitude, we wish him the very best in retirement 
after an impressive and impactful career.

                          ____________________



