

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S348-S349]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Tester, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
        Warner, Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, Mr. 
        Blumenthal, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Carper, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
        Coons, Mr. Donnelly, Ms. Duckworth, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. 
        Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Heitkamp, 
        Ms. Hirono, Mr. Jones, Mr. King, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
        Manchin, Mr. Markey, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, 
        Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Peters, Mr. Schatz, 
        Mr. Schumer, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Smith, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Udall, 
        Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Wyden, Mr. 
        Booker, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. Sanders):
  S. 2328. A bill making continuing appropriations for military pay and 
death benefits in the event of a Government shutdown; to the Committee 
on Appropriations.

[[Page S349]]

  

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of 
the bill be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                S. 2328

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Pay Our Military Act of 
     2018''.

     SEC. 2. CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR PAY AND DEATH BENEFITS 
                   FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--There are hereby appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
     appropriated, for any period during which interim or full-
     year appropriations for fiscal year 2018 are not in effect--
       (1) such sums as are necessary to provide pay and 
     allowances to members of the Armed Forces (as defined in 
     section 101(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code), including 
     reserve components thereof, who perform active service, 
     including drill, during such period;
       (2) such sums as are necessary for the payment of death 
     benefits authorized by subchapter II of chapter 75 of title 
     10, United States Code, for individuals who die during such 
     period;
       (3) such sums as are necessary to provide pay and 
     allowances to the civilian personnel of the Department of 
     Defense (and the Department of Homeland Security in the case 
     of the Coast Guard) whom the Secretary concerned determines 
     are providing support to members of the Armed Forces 
     described in paragraph (1) and in connection with the payment 
     of benefits described in paragraph (2); and
       (4) such sums as are necessary to provide pay and 
     allowances to contractors of the Department of Defense (and 
     the Department of Homeland Security in the case of the Coast 
     Guard) whom the Secretary concerned determines are providing 
     support to members of the Armed Forces described in paragraph 
     (1) and in connection with the payment of benefits described 
     in paragraph (2).
       (b) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``Secretary concerned'' means--
       (1) the Secretary of Defense with respect to matters 
     concerning the Department of Defense; and
       (2) the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to 
     matters concerning the Coast Guard.

     SEC. 3. TERMINATION.

       Appropriations and funds made available and authority 
     granted pursuant to this Act shall be available until 
     whichever of the following first occurs: (1) the enactment 
     into law of an appropriation (including a continuing 
     appropriation) for any purpose for which amounts are made 
     available in section 2; (2) the enactment into law of the 
     applicable regular or continuing appropriations resolution or 
     other Act without any appropriation for such purpose; or (3) 
     September 30, 2018.

                          ____________________



