

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S605]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING ELDER VON G. KEETCH

 Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I would like to honor the memory of a 
dear mentor and friend, Elder Von G. Keetch, who passed away suddenly 
on January 26 at the age of 57.
  Elder Keetch was a brilliant attorney who used his gifts in the 
service of God.
  As chief outside counsel and public affairs director to the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Elder Keetch had the immense 
responsibility of representing his faith in the public square.
  As an ardent supporter of religious freedom, he also had the 
privilege of defending others' ability to worship according to the 
dictates of their conscience.
  ``Religious liberty is a God-given right,'' Elder Keetch said. ``It 
is essential to all men and women exercising their agency and learning 
to choose between right and wrong.''
  Elder Keetch had deep respect for our constitutional rights because 
of his profession, but as a man of faith, he knew that conversions of 
the heart occur through personal encounters.
  Mindful of this truth, Elder Keetch strove to imitate Jesus Christ in 
all aspects of his life. He encouraged his fellow Christians to do the 
same, even during contentious public debates.
  ``Ask yourself how you can best teach and defend the doctrine of the 
gospel of Jesus Christ while also showing love, kindness, and 
understanding,'' he wrote.
  Elder Keetch was born in Provo and lived for much of his life in 
Utah.
  He earned his bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University and his 
law degree from BYU's law school.
  During this period, he clerked at the Supreme Court for Chief Justice 
Warren Burger and Justice Antonin Scalia, where he worked on pivotal 
religious liberty cases such as Employment Division v. Speech, 1990.
  As he came up through the ranks, Elder Keetch caught the attention of 
prominent legal minds, including my father, Rex Lee, who mentored him 
during law school.
  Years later, Elder Keetch would return the favor by mentoring another 
young BYU law student--me.
  I still remember the enthusiasm that Elder Keetch brought to his 
class on the First Amendment. He wanted to impress upon his students 
the importance of these old court decisions to our lives.
  At least in my case--and I am sure in countless others--he succeeded.
  After Elder Keetch graduated from law school, he could have worked at 
his choice of law firms in Washington, DC, or New York. Instead, after 
prayerful consideration, he returned to Utah to work at Kirton 
McConkie, a law firm that works closely with the LDS Church.
  Soon, Elder Keetch was an advocate in some of the highest profile 
public debates of our time, defending religious liberty against 
coercion and the institution of marriage against attempts to redefine 
it.
  At the same time, Elder Keetch was called to positions of leadership 
within the LDS Church. He was sustained as a General Authority Seventy 
of the Church on April 4, 2015.
  So tireless was Elder Keetch that, when he was called to a full-time 
position in the LDS Church, two attorneys were assigned to take over 
his work.
  In spite of these important and time-consuming responsibilities, 
Elder Keetch made family his first priority.
  Elder Keetch is survived by six children and his wife, Bernice, who 
has been his steady companion and sweetheart since she invited him to a 
dance in high school. His family surrounded him with love as he battled 
cancer, the illness that eventually took him away from us.
  It is hard to grapple with the unexpected death of a mentor, father, 
husband, and leader like Elder Von Keetch, but we should take heart 
from words that Elder Keetch himself spoke before a General Conference 
audience in 2015.
  He said that trials were to be expected if we want to follow the One 
who suffered for us on Calvary.
  We represent the love and faith of Christ, Elder Keetch taught, ``in 
situations where we don't fully understand the reason for God's 
command.''
  I don't know why my dear friend and mentor was called home so soon, 
but I can take inspiration from his spectacular life.
  I still recall a phone conversation with Elder Keetch many years ago, 
when I was finishing a clerkship with then-Judge Samuel Alito.
  Elder Keetch was by then a prominent attorney. By contrast, I was a 
kid fresh out of school looking for life advice.
  Still, he took my call, listened with great care and attention, and 
gave wise counsel that served me well down the line. Undoubtedly, Elder 
Keetch's time could have been spent better elsewhere, yet he chose to 
spend it on me.
  That is what I will remember about Elder Keetch. He brought the same 
enthusiasm to pivotal court cases and seemingly unimportant phone 
conversations. He knew that matters large and small can be used for the 
glory of God.
  In all things, Elder Von Keetch modeled the words of Paul in his 
letter to the Philippians: ``For to me, to live is Christ and to die is 
gain,'' Philippians 1:21-23, KJV.

                          ____________________



