

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1087-H1090]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 CALLING ON GOVERNMENTS TO INTENSIFY EFFORTS TO INVESTIGATE, RECOVER, 
 AND IDENTIFY ALL MISSING AND UNACCOUNTED-FOR PERSONNEL OF THE UNITED 
                                 STATES

  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the 
rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 129) calling on the 
Department of Defense, other elements of the Federal Government, and 
foreign governments to intensify efforts to investigate, recover, and 
identify all missing and unaccounted-for personnel of the United 
States, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
  The text of the resolution is as follows:

                              H. Res. 129

       Whereas according to the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency 
     of the Department of Defense, more than 82,000 United States 
     personnel are still unaccounted-for from past wars and 
     conflicts around the world;
       Whereas, though recognizing that an estimated 48,000 of 
     these personnel were presumed lost at sea and are unlikely to 
     be recovered, tens of thousands of families and friends have 
     waited decades for the accounting of their loved ones and 
     comrades in arms;
       Whereas the families of these brave Americans deserve our 
     Nation's best efforts to achieve the fullest possible 
     accounting for their missing loved ones;
       Whereas the National League of POW/MIA Families, and their 
     iconic POW/MIA flag, pioneered the Vietnam War accounting 
     effort since 1970 and has been joined in this humanitarian 
     quest for answers by Korean War, Cold War, and World War II 
     families, fully supported by the American Legion, the 
     Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled American Veterans, 
     Jewish War Veterans, AMVETS, Vietnam Veterans of America, 
     Special Forces Association, Special Operations Association, 
     Rolling Thunder, and other more recently formed groups, and 
     tens of thousands of families and veterans are yearning and 
     advocating for answers concerning the fates of their loved 
     ones and comrades in arms;
       Whereas the mission of the Defense POW/MIA Accounting 
     Agency of the Department of Defense is to provide the fullest 
     possible accounting for missing members of the Armed Forces 
     of the United States, designated civilians of the Department, 
     and other designated personnel; and
       Whereas the recovery and investigation teams of the 
     Department of Defense deploy to countries around the world to 
     account as fully as possible for these unaccounted-for United 
     States personnel: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
       (1) calls upon the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency and 
     other elements of the Department of Defense, other 
     appropriate elements of the Federal Government, and all 
     foreign governments to resolutely continue efforts to 
     investigate, recover, identify, and account as fully as 
     possible for all United States personnel designated as 
     unaccounted-for from past wars and conflicts around the 
     world; and
       (2) calls upon all foreign governments with information on 
     United States personnel designated as unaccounted-for from 
     past wars and conflicts, or with such personnel within their 
     territories, to cooperate fully with the Government of the 
     United States to provide the fullest possible accounting for 
     those American lives.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. Wilson) and the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Sherman) each will control 20 minutes.


                             General Leave

  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and 
to include extraneous material on this measure.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from South Carolina?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.
  I rise in strong support of H. Res. 129, which recommits us to the 
sacred task of accounting fully for our troops who are still missing 
and unaccounted for in past wars and conflicts.
  From World War II onward, more than 82,000 U.S. personnel have not 
come home and are not accounted for. That means that for tens of 
thousands of American families, friends, and comrades in arms, the pain 
of uncertainty continues to this very day.
  This resolution also calls upon foreign nations to fully cooperate 
and to provide the Defense POW-MIA Accounting Agency with all 
information on our missing personnel that those countries may have. It 
is especially appropriate that we are considering this resolution this 
week, which marks the 45th anniversary of Operation Homecoming, which 
secured the return of more than 550 American prisoners of war from 
Vietnam.
  This group that left Hanoi on February 12, 1973, included an American 
fighter pilot whose F-4 had been shot down over North Vietnam in 1966. 
When he ejected from his plane, he had suffered a broken arm, a broken 
back, and a dislocated shoulder, but that was only the start of his 
ordeal.
  This pilot spent nearly 7 years as a prisoner of war, enduring 
torture, abuse, and an incomprehensible 3 years in solitary 
confinement. For 18 months, he shared a cell with Senator John McCain 
at the infamous ``Hanoi Hilton.''
  For his service and heroism, he was awarded two Silver Stars, two 
Legions of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, one Bronze Star with 
Valor, two Purple Hearts, and numerous other deserved awards.
  After that pilot returned home, he stated: ``The freedoms that most 
Americans take for granted are, in fact, real and must be preserved. I 
have returned to a great nation, and our sacrifices have been well 
worth the effort. I pledge to continue to serve and fight to protect 
the freedoms and ideals that the United States stands for.''
  Well, we know that that pilot did continue to serve, not only in the 
military. He is a former combat warrior and prisoner of war, an 
American hero, and a Member of Congress. His name is Sam Johnson, and 
we are honored by his presence in the Chamber today.
  I want to thank Congressman Johnson for introducing this resolution. 
But even more, we all, every American, want to thank him for his life 
of valor and service.

[[Page H1088]]

  H. Res. 129 is an opportunity to renew our pledge to our men and 
women in uniform and to the families of those who have gone missing in 
service to our country. We will leave no one behind, and we will not 
forget your solemn sacrifices laid upon the altar of freedom. I urge 
support for this resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                                         House of Representatives,


                                  Committee on Armed Services,

                                Washington, DC, February 12, 2018.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, U.S. House of 
         Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing to you concerning H. Res. 
     129, a resolution ``Calling on the Department of Defense, 
     other appropriate elements of the Federal Government, and 
     foreign governments to resolutely continue efforts to 
     investigate, recover, and identify all United States 
     personnel designated as unaccounted for from past wars and 
     conflicts around the world.'' There are certain provisions in 
     the resolution which fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
       In the interest of permitting your committee to proceed 
     expeditiously to floor consideration of this important 
     legislation, I am willing to waive this committee's further 
     consideration of H. Res. 129. I do so with the understanding 
     that by waiving consideration of the resolution, the 
     Committee on Armed Services does not waive any future 
     jurisdictional claim over the subject matters contained in 
     the legislation which fall within its Rule X jurisdiction.
       Please place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest into the 
     Congressional Record during consideration of the measure on 
     the House floor. Thank you for the cooperative spirit in 
     which you have worked regarding this matter and others 
     between our respective committees.
           Sincerely,
                                    William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                Washington, DC, February 12, 2018.
       Hon. William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
     Chairman, House Armed Services Committee, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Thornberry: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of House Resolution 129, which concerns 
     efforts to investigate, recover, and identify all missing and 
     unaccounted-for personnel of the United States, so that the 
     resolution may proceed expeditiously to the House floor. The 
     suspension text of the resolution incorporates edits worked 
     out with assistance from your committee.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future.
       I will seek to place our letters on H. Res. 129 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration. I appreciate 
     your cooperation regarding this legislation and look forward 
     to continuing to work together as this measure moves through 
     the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
                                                         Chairman.

  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of H. Res. 129 calling on the Department of Defense 
and other elements of the Federal Government and foreign governments to 
intensify efforts to investigate, recover, and identify all missing and 
unaccounted-for personnel of the United States.
  I rise in support of H. Res. 129, which affirms our government's 
commitment to investigating and recovering missing American personnel. 
I especially want to thank Representative Sam Johnson, not only for 
introducing this resolution but for embodying our dedication to those 
who are captured or missing, whose service to this country, 7 years as 
a POW, three of those in solitary confinement, exemplify the highest 
honor of our military forces.
  I also want to thank Chairman Royce for bringing this resolution 
forward. Our brave servicemembers risk their lives for our country 
every day, and when they go missing, we owe it to them never to give 
up. No matter how many years pass, no matter how many miles we must 
travel, our search for them must continue.
  More than 83,000 personnel of the United States are still unaccounted 
for around the world from past wars and conflicts. This is the 
equivalent of an entire city, and their families are mourning the loss 
of ones they hold dear.
  Although an estimated 50,000 of these are World War II personnel lost 
at sea and, sadly, unlikely to ever be recovered, we must continue our 
efforts whenever there is any possibility of discovering and recovering 
an American who has been lost in the service of our country.
  Our brave men and women expect that when they make the ultimate 
sacrifice, we will make extraordinary efforts to recover them, and if 
we don't do exactly that, we are not only failing those families but 
also one of our military's most sacred principles: ``leave no man or 
woman behind.''
  We honor this principle because it reminds us that, unlike many of 
our enemies, whose soldiers are viewed as expendable pawns of the 
regime, we value each and every life. Those missing in action need to 
be returned home to their families where they belong.
  This resolution has a simple message for our government. It is time 
to intensify our efforts to investigate, recover, identify, and account 
as fully as possible for all those missing and unaccounted-for American 
personnel. It also urges foreign governments to cooperate with us in 
these important efforts so that every soldier, sailor, airman, and 
marine gets the homecoming they deserve.
  Thank you to all the men and women who have served and continue to 
serve our great country and the principles we stand for. I urge my 
colleagues to support this resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I yield as much time as he 
may consume to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Sam Johnson), the author 
of this measure, a former fighter pilot and prisoner of war, and a true 
American hero.
  Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise and say: God bless you 
both. Thank you for what you said.
  I rise in strong support of H. Res. 129. This resolution I introduced 
calls for an intensified effort to account for the tens of thousands of 
American servicemembers who are still missing in action. Many folks 
don't realize there are still more than 82,000 American servicemembers 
who remain unaccounted for.

                              {time}  1615

  In fact, I, myself, was classified as missing in action for almost 2 
years after my shoot-down over north Vietnam in 1966. That is why it is 
so meaningful to have this resolution on the House floor during the 
45th anniversary of Operation Homecoming, which brought me and my 
fellow Vietnam POWs back to our beloved country after many long years 
in hell on Earth.
  During my time as an MIA, my family was unsure where I was or whether 
I was even alive or dead. But my devoted wife, Shirley, and countless 
other families with the National League of POW/MIA Families 
continuously advocated for the return of all our POWs and MIAs from the 
Vietnam war. It is because of their tireless work, and by the grace of 
God, that my fellow POWs and I were reunited with our families 45 years 
ago this week.
  I am joined today by my two daughters, Gini and Beverly, who, along 
with my late wife, were a key part of the effort to bring us home.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask my colleagues to join me in 
recognizing the strength and devotion of my two lovely daughters, Gini 
and Beverly, who are seated in the gallery.
  But, Mr. Speaker, we must never forget our troops who still remain 
missing in action; and we must never forget their families, who 
anxiously await a final accounting of their loved ones. In many cases, 
so much time has gone by that it has fallen to the next generation to 
repatriate their missing family members. They deserve our dedicated 
help and support.
  After my return from Vietnam, I vowed to continue to fight for our 
missing troops and their families. During my time serving in the U.S.-
Russia Joint Commission on POW/MIAs, I traveled the world to places 
like Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, and even to the Russian military archives 
in Moscow to try to find our missing troops. And I will never stop 
fighting.
  For the families of our troops who remain missing in action, this 
resolution is for you.
  This resolution calls on the United States Government and the 
Department of Defense to diligently continue

[[Page H1089]]

efforts to investigate, recover, and identify all missing U.S. 
personnel around the world. It also calls on foreign governments that 
have information on our missing personnel to cooperate fully with our 
government.
  We must remain united in our efforts to recover all of our missing 
troops and to never forget their sacrifice.
  I would also urge my colleagues to remember that, while I was in the 
Hanoi Hilton, the north Vietnamese told my fellow POWs and me that our 
country had forgotten us. As the days turned into years, we had to 
fight that fear. The feeling of being alone and forgotten is horrible. 
And the families of POWs and MIAs feel a similar pain. That is why I 
will continue to make every effort to repatriate my missing brothers 
and sisters in arms and hold true to the promise: ``No Man Left 
Behind.''
  But I also call on all current and future Members of Congress to 
carry the mantle.
  We cannot, and must not, forget the faithful servicemen and -women 
who deserve to be brought home to the country they gave their all to 
protect. It is my sincere hope that we will one day bring home all of 
America's missing patriots. These heroes deserve to return to American 
soil with all of our honor and respect. And their families deserve the 
closure of their loved ones that they have awaited for for so long.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask for the support of all of my colleagues and that 
they join me in supporting this important resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair would gently remind Members to 
refrain from referencing persons in the gallery.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith), the chairman of the Foreign 
Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and 
International Organizations; and a longstanding leader on behalf of 
veterans' issues.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of Sam 
Johnson's resolution and join the House in honoring a truly heroic man 
who has suffered so much for our country, and I thank him for that.
  I would say to my colleagues, having read and observed Sam for so 
many years, words are inadequate--they are truly inadequate--to 
describe his courage, his tenacity, his faith in God, and his valor. He 
is really a hero who stands above with few peers.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Sam for his leadership and for being who he is. 
I also thank his family. It is just a privilege to know him and to be 
up here supporting legislation that he has sponsored for a full and 
thorough accounting of all of our POWs and MIAs.
  As Members know, access to the battlefield during and after war is 
important. With regards to Japan, Italy, and Nazi Germany, we had 
access after the last shot was fired. Indeed, today we are close 
friends and allies. So those who are missing in action or POWs are more 
likely to be presumed dead if not found.
  That is not the case, Mr. Speaker, when it comes to North Korea, 
where there is no access to the theatre of operations in the North and 
where we remain and the families remain in agony for decades about what 
happened to their loved ones.
  With regards to Vietnam, there were many live sightings of POWs 
especially after prisoners like Sam and others came home, people who 
were observed on the ground. I was part of the POW/MIA task force in 
Congress in the 1980s. Jerry Solomon and others and I traveled to 
Vietnam to talk about those live sightings and the fact that the 
Vietnamese did not provide a full accounting. Many who were observed 
went missing, and we think they may have been executed by the 
Vietnamese long after the peace treaty was signed.
  We do have some cooperation, as we all know, to crash sites and the 
like. That is all good. It is certainly not enough. We do not have 
unfettered access to the battlefield, and that remains a reason why our 
great and distinguished colleague, Sam Johnson, is offering this 
resolution. We need to redouble our efforts.
  I would just point out for the record that Sam Johnson flew 62 combat 
missions in the Korean war and 25 missions in the Vietnam war before 
being shot down. He was in the Air Force for 29 years. He commanded two 
air bases, among other things. He is a lifelong fighter, student of 
war, combat warrior, a leader of men, and, of course, a prisoner of 
war.
  He spent, as my colleagues and I have all noted, nearly 7 years as a 
prisoner of war in Vietnam, where torture was systematic. He endured 
that, overcame that, and, of course, with his faith, became a great 
inspiration to all of us as someone who has suffered so much, yet 
continues to have a strong faith in God and a faith in humanity.
  As he pointed out in a statement, he was 140 pounds when he was 
released and repatriated. He also pointed out that during his 
incarceration he was in solitary confinement and in leg stocks, like 
the pilgrims, as he put it, for 72 days. Then, the following day after 
he was let out, he couldn't walk. He was then put in leg irons for 2\1/
2\ years: a tight metal cuff around each ankle, with a foot long bar 
connecting the legs. He still has little feeling in the right arm and 
his right hand after those 2,500 days of horrific captivity.
  Again, he saw a silver lining because he still had a dream and hope 
for the future, which some people would have lost a long time ago and 
just given up--what an inspiration for today's generation of a man who 
has suffered so much, has overcome so much, and remains an optimist 
deep in his heart.
  Again, words are inadequate to describe our colleague. Sam Johnson is 
the definition of courage.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, having no speakers on my side, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to add my voice to the voice of every other 
speaker on this resolution, for what an honor it has been to serve with 
Sam Johnson and to see his example of service on the floor of this 
House every day.
  I want to reiterate the importance of this resolution. It sends a 
critical message to our military families that their sacrifices are not 
forgotten. Our government must never give up until every last American 
is returned to their families and to their homeland.
  Today, it is easy to think of Congress as a body divided between 
Republicans and Democrats, but, ultimately, we are all Americans, and 
each and every one of us owes a huge debt of gratitude to our troops 
serving today and those who have served in the past. Their valor and 
courage have defined our Nation's course. We applaud them, we honor 
them, and we will do everything in our power to see that those who 
remain unaccounted-for are returned home.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.
  As I close, I want to commend the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency, 
which continues the noble work of accounting for our missing troops and 
personnel day in and day out around the world.
  I also want to express gratitude to those groups that continue to 
keep the home fires burning bright for the many families still awaiting 
concrete information on their loved ones. These include:
  The National League of POW/MIA Families;
  The American Legion;
  The Veterans of Foreign Wars;
  The Disabled American Veterans;
  The Jewish War Veterans;
  AMVETS;
  Vietnam Veterans of America;
  The Special Forces Association;
  The Special Operations Association; and
  Rolling Thunder.
  Finally, I, again, thank Congressman Sam Johnson for introducing this 
resolution and for exemplifying the ideals of service, sacrifice, and 
honor. He was recognized by his communist suppressors as one of the 
most stubborn prisoners, a true tribute of his courage.
  All Members of Congress, of both parties, cherish the service of 
Congressman Sam Johnson.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge support for H. Res. 129, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, forty-five years ago, after the signing of 
the 1973 Paris Peace Accords, 556 American military personnel and 
twenty-five civilians boarded American C-141s

[[Page H1090]]

and finally ended their long, extremely trying captivity in Vietnam.
  For most Americans, Operation Homecoming marked the end of U.S. 
involvement in the Vietnam conflict. However, the heroes that survived 
torture and mistreatment within Vietnamese prison camps, such as the 
infamous ``Hanoi Hilton,'' know that the job is not finished.
  One of our most sacred vows to members of our Armed Services is that 
no American soldier will be left behind on the field of battle. None 
understand this better than the gentleman from Texas, Congressman Sam 
Johnson--fighter pilot, prisoner of war, and American hero.
  Colonel Sam Johnson's 29 years in the Air Force was marked with valor 
and selfless service. A combat veteran of both the Korean and Vietnam 
conflicts, he was twice awarded the Silver Star, our nation's third 
highest award for gallantry in action, and the Distinguished Flying 
Cross for valor and heroism in aerial flight, in his more than eighty 
career combat missions.
  Since regaining his freedom 45 years ago, Congressman Johnson has 
remained a staunch advocate for veterans and their families, as 
attested by being awarded the National Patriot award, the Congressional 
Medal of Honor Society's highest civilian accolade, for his tireless 
work to help improve livelihoods and to provide closure for families of 
missing U.S. soldiers.
  The Department of Defense estimates that more than 82,000 U.S. 
personnel have still not been accounted for from previous wars and 
conflicts. We must ensure that we do everything we can to fulfill the 
promise to our nation's heroes: that we will not leave anyone behind on 
foreign battlefields.
  As this resolution importantly recognizes, cooperation with foreign 
governments is key to efforts to recover, identify, and account for all 
missing U.S. personnel. I thank the gentleman from Texas, Sam Johnson, 
for his life of service, and for authoring this legislation.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Wilson) that the House suspend the 
rules and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 129, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



