

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 41 (Thursday, March 8, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1577-S1578]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. UDALL:
       S. 2519. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to reform the 
     renewable fuel program under that Act, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.

[[Page S1578]]

  

           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr. Booker, Mr. Schatz, 
             and Mr. Portman):
       S. 2520. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     require the Federal Communications Commission to ensure just 
     and reasonable charges for inmate telephone and advanced 
     communications services; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Graham):
       S. 2521. A bill to authorize the issuance of extreme risk 
     protection orders; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Klobuchar, 
             and Ms. Collins):
       S. 2522. A bill to provide for automatic acquisition of 
     United States citizenship for certain internationally adopted 
     individuals, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 2523. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide coverage under the Medicare program for FDA-
     approved qualifying colorectal cancer screening blood-based 
     tests, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself, Ms. Murkowski, and Ms. 
             Hassan):
       S. 2524. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize a loan repayment program for substance use disorder 
     treatment employees, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Crapo, Mr. 
             Hatch, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Risch, Mr. Wicker, 
             Mr. Enzi, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. 
             Sasse, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Thune, Mr. Paul, Mr. Perdue, 
             Mr. Scott, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Cruz, and Mr. 
             Moran):
       S. 2525. A bill to ensure that the Federal Government shall 
     not take any discriminatory action against a person, wholly 
     or partially on the basis that such person speaks, or acts, 
     in accordance with a sincerely held religious belief or moral 
     conviction that marriage is or should be recognized as a 
     union of one man and one woman, or two individuals as 
     recognized under Federal law, or that sexual relations 
     outside marriage are improper; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 2526. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to encourage retirement savings, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Risch, and Mr. 
             Kennedy):
       S. 2527. A bill to amend the Small Business Investment Act 
     of 1958 to increase the amount of leverage made available to 
     small business investment companies; to the Committee on 
     Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Lankford, 
             Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 2528. A bill to call on the United States and its 
     partners to continue support for the Iranian people in their 
     fight for freedom and prosperity; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Warren, and Mr. Sanders):
       S. 2529. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to reduce the applicable percentage under the premium 
     assistance tax credit for households with young adults; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 2530. A bill to address the needs of individuals with 
     disabilities within the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus 
     Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 2531. A bill for the determination of the taking of 
     private property and damages caused by the Department of 
     Interior; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S.J. Res. 55. A joint resolution to require certifications 
     regarding actions by Saudi Arabia in Yemen, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.

                          ____________________



