

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2049-S2058]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of John F. 
Ring, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Labor 
Relations Board for the term of five years expiring December 16, 2022.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arkansas.


                             The Old Guard

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, last Friday marked the 70th anniversary of 
the 3rd Infantry Regiment's reactivation, and as one of its veterans, I 
didn't want to let the moment pass without notice.
  The 3rd Infantry Regiment, more commonly known as the Old Guard, 
serves across the Potomac River at Arlington National Cemetery. Most 
here and most in the Gallery have probably visited the cemetery and 
seen Old Guard soldiers guarding the Tomb of the Unknowns or conducting 
funerals. Arkansans who visit me here in the Capitol consistently tell 
me that Arlington is a highlight of their trip. That is not surprising 
to me, because Old Guard soldiers set the standard for their 
dedication, their diligence, and their devotion. The 3rd Infantry is 
the Nation's oldest Active-Duty infantry unit, and yet the reverence we 
feel for them goes beyond their mere length of service and to what they 
represent: the dignity of freedom.
  On April 6, 1948, the 3rd Infantry was reactivated on orders of the 
Secretary of the Army. The ceremony was held just a few steps from 
here, on the East Plaza of the Capitol. Then, the Old Guard immediately 
conducted another ceremony to present the Flag of Liberation to the 
President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House. That 
flag had flown over this very Capitol on Pearl Harbor Day, December 7, 
1941. Then, those forces raised that flag over Rome, Berlin, and Tokyo 
after we had defeated the Axis powers. Finally, the Old Guard led the 
large Army Day parade from the Capitol down Constitution Avenue, where

[[Page S2050]]

President Truman sat in the reviewing stand at the Ellipse.
  That is not bad for their first day back with the regimental colors. 
It had been only 18 months since the regiment, serving with the 106th 
Division as an occupation force in Berlin, was caught up in the rushed 
demobilizations at the end of World War II. But the Army needed an 
official ceremonial unit in the Nation's Capital, as well as the 
contingency force as tension built up between the United States and the 
Soviet Union. So the Army called the 3rd Infantry back into service at 
Fort Myer, right next to Arlington, and restored ``the history formerly 
belonging'' to the legendary regiment. That was due, in no small part, 
to the regiment's reputation for professionalism, present from its very 
beginning.
  The 3rd Infantry was stood up in 1784, when the Continental Congress 
created the ``First American Regiment.'' The War for Independence had 
convinced Congress that, whatever its fear of standing armies, the 
country needed at least a small professional fighting force to defend 
it. So the 3rd Infantry started as the lone professional regiment in 
the early days of our Republic, when our common defense was organized 
mostly around State militias. To this day, its members continue to 
display that professionalism by holding themselves to the most exacting 
standards as the Army's highest profile unit and the official escort to 
the President.
  But the 3rd Infantry's professionalism also had a serious purpose: to 
defend America. So faithfully has the regiment served the American 
people that its history and the Nation's history are thoroughly 
intertwined.
  First, it served at posts along the frontier, where it protected 
American settlements against Indian attacks under the leadership of 
General ``Mad'' Anthony Wayne, and it fought the British Imperial Army 
to a standstill during the War of 1812. Today, members of the regiment 
wear a buff strap on their left shoulders to commemorate that 18th 
century heritage.
  After the war, peacetime demobilization and reorganization gave the 
regiment its current name, the 3rd Infantry. Then, during the Mexican 
War, the 3rd Infantry distinguished itself with bravery, skill, and 
stamina at every major battle of the war, in places like Palo Alto, 
Monterrey, and Vera Cruz. Its famed bayonet charge at the Battle of 
Cerro Gordo is what persuaded the War Department in 1922 to authorize 
the 3rd Infantry to march with bayonets fixed to their rifles--a 
privilege still reserved solely to that regiment in the entire U.S. 
Army. It was because of the 3rd Infantry's valor that General Winfield 
Scott, the commanding general of the Vera Cruz campaign, granted it the 
honor of leading the victorious march into Mexico City, during which he 
turned to his staff as the 3rd Infantry passed in review, and said: 
``Gentlemen, take off your hats to the Old Guard of the Army.'' Ever 
since, the name has stuck.
  After the Mexican War came the Civil War, which divided not only our 
Nation but also our Army. Ulysses S. Grant and Robert E. Lee, who both 
fought alongside the Old Guard in Mexico, now faced off against each 
other. The 3rd Infantry fought every major battle in the war's first 2 
years: First Bull Run, Second Bull Run, the Seven Days Battles, 
Antietam, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, and, finally, Gettysburg. 
Suffering casualties that exceeded its original strength, the Old Guard 
ended the war at the Union's mobile headquarters, standing alongside 
General Grant at the Appomattox courthouse as he accepted General Lee's 
surrender.
  In the days that followed, the vast majority of State volunteers 
returned home to their families--not the Old Guard. The ``regulars,'' 
as they were known back then, went straight back to the front, again 
protecting settlers from Indian raids across the western frontier. They 
defeated Spanish forces in Cuba during the Spanish-American War. They 
fought rebel insurgents in the Philippines and then returned to fight 
Muslim insurgents there, too, in some of the same places where the 
Islamic State is present today.
  They guarded our border with Mexico during World War I. They helped 
to get the lend-lease program going in the early days of World War II, 
before deploying to Europe itself. But it was after the Old Guard's 
reactivation that it assumed the duties for which it is rightly famous 
today: performing ceremonies and military honor funerals.
  For its first 162 years, the Old Guard defended America's frontiers 
and fought its wars, both at home and abroad. Now these new 
responsibilities have defined the Old Guard's mission for the last 70 
years. The size and structure of the regiment has evolved, just as 
Arlington National Cemetery itself has grown. The Old Guard's 
prominence has increased, as it has participated in major 
internationally televised events, such as the ceremony to inter the 
unknown soldiers from World War II and the Korean war in 1958 and the 
state funeral for President Kennedy in 1963. But the essence of the 
mission has not changed since 1948.
  It is this history, this reliability, this steady, sober leadership 
that the Old Guard has become known for. Their skill and proficiency, 
their care and attention to detail, their faithfulness and discipline--
all of them--set the highest of standards of military conduct and 
character. Our fellow Americans see all that whenever they visit 
Arlington. They can imagine it on the battlefield. Then, they have 
little wonder why our soldiers accomplish such amazing feats of valor. 
That is why the Old Guard is held in such reverence, and that is why it 
is fitting to mark this important anniversary.
  The Old Guard represents the best of our country, but also the best 
in ourselves. Freedom isn't free. It requires self-sacrifice and self-
discipline. That is what makes it a noble and, therefore, a fulfilling 
way of life. For reminding us of that dignity--the dignity that comes 
with being a free people--the men and women of the Old Guard deserve 
our deepest thanks.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Democratic whip is recognized.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without object, it is so ordered.


                               Venezuela

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last week, I spent 4 days in Venezuela. I 
had never been there before. I was given an opportunity to get a visa 
to go to the country, and I jumped at the opportunity. Venezuela, of 
course, on the north end of the South American continent, is a constant 
source of concern in the United States and the region, and I wanted to 
see for myself what was happening. No doubt, many are aware that 
Venezuela has been suffering devastating economic and democratic 
backsliding, but what I found was a country that is on the edge of 
collapse, facing overlapping economic, humanitarian, and political 
crises.
  On the economic side, Venezuela has so many positive things. It is 
rich in natural beauty, oil, minerals, and human talent, but it has 
seen its economy run into the ground by mindless price controls, 
multiple exchange rates, and gross mismanagement. Inflation is rampant 
and expected to reach 13,000 percent this year, leading to what some 
call ``a race for survival.''
  Imagine walking down the main street of Caracas and seeing long lines 
at every ATM. Why are they there? Because each day, the residents of 
Venezuela must go to the ATM machine with their credit card or debit 
card and take out the maximum withdrawal allowed. It is hundreds of 
thousands of Bolivars, which sound like more money than you could 
possibly need, but it translates into 20 cents--waiting an hour at an 
ATM machine for 20 cents' worth of currency so that you can ride the 
bus back and forth to work. That is what life is like in the capital of 
Venezuela.
  They have universally discredited and arbitrary price controls that 
are eerily reminiscent of the failed policies in Cuba and the Soviet 
Union. They have decimated local production and left basic goods 
unavailable or unaffordable.
  I went down the main street in Caracas and saw many shops but no 
customers. Basic goods were available--shampoo or diapers, for 
example--but they cost the equivalent of 2 or 3 months of salary. We 
stopped and did a translation at one store that isn't under price 
controls, and we found that a pound of hamburger costs $4, which 
doesn't sound bad, except that that is the minimum monthly wage in 
Venezuela--for a pound of hamburger. People waited in long lines.

[[Page S2051]]

  Rampant inflation--hyperinflation, really--has made actual cash 
scarce, and near worthless when it can actually be found. I have never 
visited a country where I never touched their currency. They warned me 
against it. They said: If you buy things here, as a tourist, you are 
going to pay 20 times what local people pay. They have exchange rates 
that are bizarre and change by the minute. These people live with this 
every single day.
  The government of Maduro stages raids into formal grocery stores to 
impose arbitrary price controls, leaving the owners unable to stock 
their shelves or run a functioning business. If there is a rumor that 
there are eggs for sale somewhere in Caracas, there is a rush to that 
location, and people wait for hours in the hopes that they can buy 
eggs.
  As a result, informal markets are springing up trying to meet the 
people's demands. Yet even while I walked through these markets, I saw 
long lines. From the second floor in the back, in the dark, there was a 
long line waiting. I went to the front to see what they were waiting 
for. They wanted to buy toilet paper.
  Business leaders told me that they are being vilified by the 
government, forced to sell products below cost and out of markets so 
the government can be the exclusive seller of imported goods.
  Listen to this. They also shared stories of workers fainting on the 
job from hunger. Of particular concern, one of the largest employers in 
Venezuela said they decided they had to start bringing fruit to the 
workplace in the morning so their workers could get something to eat. 
When they fainted, it was not only dangerous to them but to people 
around them, and they wanted to keep their workers awake. Only one out 
of three people in Venezuela eats three meals a day. There are children 
fainting at school.

  The government has run the state oil industry into collapse, treating 
it as its cash cow and as a way to line their pockets. Currently, there 
is little or no investment in the oil industry, the national oil 
industry of Venezuela. There is little or no maintenance, and there is 
a mass exodus of skilled personnel and engineers. What would an 
engineer working for a Venezuelan national oil company earn in the 
course of a year? Dramatically more than most Venezuelans--$1,700 a 
year in annual income. What do they earn in other countries in Latin 
America with the same skills? They would earn an average income of 
$85,000 a year. Is it any surprise they are leaving?
  It is also no surprise that the country is suffering a heartbreaking 
humanitarian crisis, one that is notable for malnutrition and a 
breakdown of basic public health. Brave and dedicated healthcare 
workers--and I have met some; NGO leaders told me of a shortage of 
vaccines with outbreaks of measles and diphtheria that haven't been 
seen for decades. Malaria is at record levels.
  When the public health officials gave me a briefing on the public 
health crisis of Venezuela, they said that the maternal mortality 
rate--the death of mothers--is at the level it was 50 years ago, the 
early 1960s. The same thing is true for infant mortality--that high a 
level. You have to go to South Sudan, Yemen, or Syria to find 
comparable public health crises, and those three countries are all at 
war. Venezuela is at war with itself. In fact, one expert said that the 
outbreak of measles, diphtheria, and malaria was the worst he had seen, 
certainly the worst in all of South America.
  With Venezuelans flooding into neighboring countries, many of them 
are spreading diseases that have been cured in so many countries around 
the world. Basic diabetes, asthma, and HIV treatments are simply not 
available. For 4 months now, HIV patients have not been given 
medication.
  A staggering number of hospitals cannot perform basic services. Many 
do not have any capacity to perform a blood test. There are no x ray 
machines available on a 24/7 basis. Many of them don't have 
electricity. Some do not even have clean water.
  Venezuelans are suffering malnutrition, and it is particularly acute 
for children, who suffer for a lifetime due to stunted brain 
development. One expert said that the rates of malnutrition have 
affected more than 8 percent of the population. In some areas, the 
percentage of people suffering from malnutrition is as high as 15 
percent. You can see it on the streets of Caracas. When you look at the 
public parks, you see these children--thin limbs, spindly legs and 
arms, and you think to yourself: These kids are not getting enough to 
eat.
  It is hard to know precisely about all of these statistics because 
the government has officially stopped collecting and releasing 
information. They leave it up to private organizations.
  What I found particularly cruel is the government's supposed effort 
to help with hunger. A provision of a monthly food basket was linked to 
having the right political identification card. Sadly, these food boxes 
are imported. Someone is making a lot of money in that process, with 
corrupt middlemen taking a cut at multiple steps along the way, all to 
provide a politically manipulated lifeline that meets only 7 of the 12 
basic food needs.
  The regime has also linked these food rations to polling stations 
during elections, which brings me to the third overlapping crisis, a 
democratic crisis. Let me acknowledge that Hugo Chavez did, in fact, 
win his initial terms in democratic elections. He tapped into public 
disenchantment with the failure of traditional governing parties to 
address the deep chasms of poverty in Venezuela. He even said ``I am 
not the cause, I am the consequence,'' referring to his rise to power. 
But his election, like that of so many other autocrats at heart, also 
brought the steady dismantling of the country's democracy, a path 
followed by the current President.
  You see, in Venezuela, political parties that look threatening are 
arbitrarily banned. Political opponents who appear to be popular are 
jailed or exiled or just plain disqualified from running for office. 
Government institutions, like the Venezuelan election commission, are 
simply political tools of the regime. The rule of law has collapsed.
  In 2015, the opposition won a sweeping victory in legislative 
elections. What happened next? The President of Venezuela, Maduro, 
installed an illegitimate rubberstamp constituent assembly to usurp the 
legitimately elected National Assembly. It was his way of stopping his 
opponents. The supreme court and national election council are stacked 
with partisan cronies who do whatever the regime asks, regardless of 
the law.
  Now, with the country on the edge of economic collapse, the President 
has called for a snap election on May 20--more than 6 months before it 
traditionally would be held. He wants to move quickly, for fear that he 
might lose. Maduro doesn't want to risk losing even under a rigged 
system, so he is rushing forward with this election that doesn't even 
come close to meeting established international standards.

  What I found, and bears repeating, is that the critics of the 
Venezuelan Government regime and their actions are not confined to the 
United States or Canada. They include Central American countries like 
Panama and South American countries, which have expressed their 
displeasure with Maduro's actions, as well as the European Union's 
displeasure. The parties and candidates still remain arbitrarily 
banned. There is zero trust in discredited election commissions, and 
registration and voting processes have been dramatically manipulated.
  I met with some of the opposition leaders, and they told me what 
happens when people try to vote. They have to go through an elaborate 
process with a machine to register to vote. It is controlled. It takes 
too much time. It limits the opposition from registering their voters. 
There is little time for a legitimate campaign, especially with 
government control of the media. Reputable, long-term election monitors 
are nowhere to be seen, and none seem to be planned for the actual 
election, either.
  Under these conditions, how can any such election be credible? If 
President Maduro proceeds with this May 20 election under these 
circumstances, he is going to find Venezuela further isolated.
  Amid these deeply troubling and ominous conditions, I nonetheless met 
many brave and dedicated Venezuelans who are trying to endure and 
reverse this horrible situation. Doctors, nurses, civic leaders, 
business people,

[[Page S2052]]

politicians, and so many others are sharing food and medicine, running 
for office and facing the threat of arrest or exile, documenting human 
rights abuses in the shrinking media state, trying to run businesses in 
a broken economy. It is an incredible act of courage each day.
  I also met with former political prisoners, political opposition 
members, and their families who are under constant threat or already 
under some kind of arrest. I would name them here, but to do so would 
put them in danger in Venezuela. I was moved by their dedication and 
humanity.
  I am haunted by the comments of one group of young idealists. Over 
dinner Friday night in Caracas, they talked about the future. They 
said: If we called the same group of five opposition leaders together a 
year from now, we would be lucky if three showed up. Two of us will be 
exiled or jailed between now and then. That is what they face by being 
political opponents of the current regime. I fear how many of 
Venezuela's most talented will be sacrificed under these conditions.
  The regime is also tragically holding a U.S. citizen, Josh Holt of 
Utah, on criminal charges. The charges are nonsense. I visited with 
Josh Holt in his prison. The prison is known locally as hell on earth. 
Josh and his Venezuelan wife have served 21 months, with no end in 
sight, and they still haven't gone through the criminal process. He is 
suffering, and he should be. It is understandable. He is clearly being 
held as a political hostage. I appealed to the President and every 
member of the government to release this young man and his Venezuelan 
wife and her daughter so that they could come back to the United 
States. Keeping Josh Holt as a political hostage will just isolate the 
Maduro regime even more. I am one of a bipartisan group of Members in 
Congress who will continue to push for his immediate release.
  Lastly, I want to note that every time I go on one of these trips 
overseas, including to some of the most far-flung corners of the globe, 
I am always moved by the group of talented Americans working for us and 
representing us; those are the men and women in our Embassies, without 
exception. Under the Charge d'Affaires, Todd Robinson, our Embassy team 
in Caracas is a point of great pride and outstanding public service. 
The conditions under which they are forced to operate are 
extraordinarily stressful.
  There was some small hope that negotiations led by the Vatican and 
regional leaders or most recently hosted in the Dominican Republic 
could lead to some kind of path forward between the Venezuelan 
Government and the opposition before it is too late, but all of these 
have failed. Some hoped years ago that a group known as the Boston 
Group--American and Venezuelan elected officials--might be the 
beginning of a dialogue and might be continued to this day, but it is 
increasingly difficult to see that possibility. I met some of the 
Venezuelan Boston Group members. Several of them are deeply committed 
to this administration currently in power. Many of them talk about 
changes that need to be made in Venezuela. I haven't given up hope 
completely that there may be some voices that can move this country 
back to a civilized status.
  Let me be clear in my concluding message to the Venezuelan 
Government, specifically, a message that they should proceed with an 
election that meets the following basic standards: All political 
prisoners must be released, and all candidates and parties must be 
allowed to compete. There must be at least 6 months for a legitimate 
campaign. The national election council should be restructured and led 
by a credible group of professionals on an evenly divided partisan 
basis so that it isn't loaded for one party or another. There must be 
no linking of food with voting or political party affiliation. The 
National Assembly must have its powers restored. Credible international 
and local election monitors must be allowed to observe preelection and 
actual election processes, with full accreditation and access. Going 
forward otherwise will only bring more suffering to the people of 
Venezuela and more isolation to their nation.
  Republicans and Democrats don't agree on much these days, certainly 
not here in Washington on Capitol Hill, but we do agree that Venezuela 
and the consequences of President Maduro's regime continue to lead that 
nation down a negative path, a path of suffering.
  I yield the floor.


                            China and Trade

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I preface my remarks today about China 
with a recent article from The Economist, dated March 1, 2018, which, I 
think, does a very good job of crystallizing what the hopes and 
aspirations that we in the West had for China and what the reality has 
turned out to be.
  It points out that in March 2000, Bill Clinton divided the American 
opinion on China into two camps. The first, he said, was of the 
optimists, and the second was of the hawks and the pessimists. The 
optimists, as it describes it, have an eye on the future and can see 
China becoming the next great capitalist tiger with the biggest market 
in the world. That was the optimistic view. The Economist writes that 
the hawks and pessimists, who were stuck in the past, saw China as 
stubbornly remaining as the world's last, great Communist dragon and a 
threat to stability in Asia.
  As this article points out, it was not an either/or. It called it a 
both/and. It concludes that the China of Xi Jingping is a great 
mercantilist dragon that is under strict Communist Party control and 
that it is using the power of its vast markets to cow and co-opt 
capitalist rivals to bend and break the rules-based order and to push 
America to the periphery of the Asia-Pacific region. It calls this one 
of the starkest reversals in modern geopolitics.
  Indeed, the administration's national security strategy that 
President Trump rolled out just a couple of months ago states that 
China challenges American power, influence, and interests. It points 
out again that the hopes and aspirations of the optimists appear to 
have been dashed. Instead, we have one of the starkest reversals in 
modern geopolitics. This leads me to the subject I want to at least 
start talking about because it does relate to China.
  Today, in the Subcommittee on International Trade, within the Senate 
Finance Committee, which I happen to chair, we are convening a hearing 
on trade issues and China. The core issue my colleagues and I will 
examine involves challenges to U.S. businesses, manufacturers, and 
service providers who are trying to get access to the Chinese market--a 
market that represents the second largest economy in the world. China, 
of course, has almost unfettered access to the United States. There are 
important protections in place, like the Committee on Foreign 
Investment in the United States, which does look at some of those 
investments to make sure our national security interests are not 
compromised.
  By and large, China has open access to the United States and the U.S. 
market. China is the United States' largest merchandise trading partner 
and the third largest export market for U.S. goods abroad. Although the 
legitimate flow of goods and services between the United States and 
China has increased over the years and is, in many respects, a positive 
thing, statistics alone do not capture the whole story, hence the 
preface that I gave about The Economist's view of what has changed in 
China.
  Unfortunately, while Chinese companies largely enjoy open access to 
U.S. markets and an economy that is receptive to foreign investment, 
U.S. companies are not afforded reciprocity in this regard. In his 
State of the Union Message, the President made that point, which is 
that in our trading relationships, we expect reciprocity--in other 
words, to treat our trading partners the same way they treat us--
hopefully, to everybody's advantage.
  U.S. companies that seek to do business in China often encounter--I 
would say always encounter--a protectionist system, one that employs 
predatory tactics and promotes domestic industries over foreign 
competitors, many of which receive State subsidies. In many cases, 
China has used trade as a weapon and coerced U.S. companies to enter 
into joint ventures or other business arrangements that require a 
company to hand over its key technology and know-how--the so-called 
secret sauce of its business--in order to gain market access.
  This practice has already begun to erode America's technological 
advantage and undermine our defense industrial base, which is something 
that

[[Page S2053]]

should concern all of us and is the subject of a revision of the 
Committee on Foreign Investment of the United States, CFIUS, statute 
that is going to be coming out of the Senate Banking Committee and the 
House Financial Services Committee. It will be an updating of the CFIUS 
process to meet the challenges of today.
  Of course, under section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, the Trump 
administration is currently considering potential investment 
restrictions to address the harm that has resulted from China's effort 
to acquire sensitive technologies through investments. I look forward 
to working with the President and others to ensure that the proper 
steps are taken, but the real issues are clear, and we will be 
considering them in more detail at the hearing this afternoon on 
China's restrictive market.
  Even though multiple administrations have attempted to engage Chinese 
leaders on their trade practices, the high-level diplomatic talks have 
generally yielded little progress and have often resulted in 
commitments with zero follow-up action. Discussions may continue in the 
future, but China's market access reforms are still too slow, and real 
barriers exist. Reciprocal treatment for U.S. companies should not be 
too much to ask. Indeed, it is the minimum we should insist upon. It is 
my hope that today's hearing will paint a clear picture of the problems 
that persist with access to Chinese markets and that significant 
reforms will follow.


                                 Judges

  Mr. President, on a second brief matter, I will mention that 
yesterday was the 1-year anniversary of Neil Gorsuch joining the U.S. 
Supreme Court.
  Former Attorney General Ed Meese called Justice Gorsuch someone in 
the mold of the late Justice Antonin Scalia--an impartial judge who 
applies laws as they are written and who shows an abiding respect for 
the rights that are guaranteed by the Constitution.
  As I have numerous times in the past, I commend President Trump on 
his outstanding selection, and I congratulate Justice Gorsuch on his 
first year of serving on our Nation's highest Court.
  Let's not forget that Justice Gorsuch is not the only good news when 
it comes to the Federal judiciary. He is only one part of a much larger 
and, often, untold story. As of earlier this month, 30 article III 
Federal life tenure judges have been confirmed under President Trump's 
tenure--30. That is due, in large part, to the commitment of the 
Senate, under our majority leader's leadership, to making sure that 
this was a priority--to confirm judges who have been passed out of the 
Judiciary Committee here on the floor of the Senate and to maximize our 
floor time in order to get that priority accomplished.
  My home State has filled two appellate vacancies, as well as two 
district vacancies so far. Additionally, five accomplished lawyers are 
waiting for hearings for Texas district vacancies, and two more are 
waiting to be confirmed for those vacancies. So is Andy Oldham, who is 
an accomplished lawyer who has been nominated to fill the third seat on 
the Fifth Circuit since President Trump has become President. I hope we 
will continue to move all of these judicial nominees and many more 
across the country very soon.
  I know there is a lot of focus on the executive branch and the 
legislative branch, but I believe the judiciary is the bedrock of our 
government as it ensures that equal justice is available to all, no 
matter what one's station in life. It is the rule of law that enables 
all of our other freedoms to be possible. It enables our economy to 
flourish, and it creates opportunities for our people so that they can 
pursue their dreams. That is how important I believe the judiciary is, 
and we should never forget it.
  Yesterday, President Trump took another important step in this area 
when he announced he would be nominating David Morales to fill one of 
the vacancies I just mentioned, this one in Corpus Christi, TX, in the 
U.S. Southern District. David has extensive experience in working for 
the Texas attorney general and the Governor, as well as in the 
University of Texas system. He was recommended by Senator Cruz and my 
Federal Judicial Evaluation Committee--a bipartisan group of the best 
and brightest lawyers the State of Texas has to offer. David was 
recommended to us by what we call the FJEC. It performs a great service 
not only to Senator Cruz and me but to the public, generally, in its 
vetting of these potential nominees for judicial service and its 
recommending them to us. David Morales will bring more than 23 years of 
complex litigation and agency dispute resolution to bear.
  I hope our colleagues will join me in making sure his nomination is 
swiftly considered and that he is confirmed.
  I think David and the other Texans whom President Trump has nominated 
will make excellent additions to our courts. They are the kinds of 
people we should want in our courts--those who will impartially ensure 
that justice is done and the law, as written, is followed no matter who 
the litigant is or the type of controversy at issue.


                    Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act

  Finally, Mr. President, for the skeptics who like to say that nothing 
good ever gets done here in Washington, I will mention one other item 
and the real positive consequences of a bill we just passed and that is 
being signed into law by the President today--the Fight Online Sex 
Trafficking Act, FOSTA.
  The effort to pass it was led by our colleague, the junior Senator 
from Ohio, Mr. Portman. I and others were honored to serve as original 
cosponsors of this legislation in the Senate. We have been working on 
this issue since at least 2012, when I introduced a resolution, along 
with a bipartisan group of my colleagues, that called for backpage.com 
to cease its facilitation of human trafficking, including of children, 
and prostitution by eliminating the adult section of the website. We 
had to pass this law because, when it would go to court, under the 
Communications Decency Act, it was able to claim that Congress had not 
carved out a provision for trafficking, just merely for child 
pornography. Thus, it had escaped our attempts to bring it to justice 
in the past.
  This important legislation goes along with a bill we passed in 2015, 
called the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, which refocused our 
efforts on fighting the sex trade here in the United States by 
targeting those who purchased human trafficking victims, providing 
services to the survivors of this crime, and giving law enforcement new 
tools to target the organized networks that are responsible for 
commercial sexual exploitation. That was just a few years ago. Yet, 
just this last month, as I said, we changed section 230 of the 
Communications Decency Act to allow State attorneys general and victims 
to seek justice against websites that knowingly assist or facilitate 
commercial sexual exploitation and child sex trafficking.
  The good news is that since that time, a grand jury in Arizona has 
indicted 7 people, who are affiliated with backpage, on 93 counts of 
money laundering, facilitating prostitution, and other crimes. The 
indictment alleged that the website essentially operated as a highly 
lucrative online brothel.
  After we passed FOSTA, the Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, some 
websites announced major policy changes and shut down sections that may 
have helped to enslave and entrap young women. So it has not just been 
the indictment and, hopefully, the conviction of people who facilitated 
backpage over the years, but it has also had a deterrent effect on 
other websites that have done similar things and has encouraged them, 
in their own self-interests, to shut down those sections that have 
helped to facilitate human trafficking.
  Backpage has now been seized by Federal law enforcement. It can no 
longer serve as an open forum for the exploitation of children and the 
purchase of human beings for sexual slavery. These are all positive 
signs that the law we have enacted is making a real difference, 
ensuring that this malignant conduct does not go unpunished. The 
prosecution and dismantling of backpage has sent a clear message to the 
pimps and the buyers responsible for sexual slavery, resulting in the 
shutdown of many other sites involved in the commercial sex trade. This 
includes message boards where individuals post accounts of the sexual 
assaults of women and children as if they were reviewing a restaurant 
menu or product.

[[Page S2054]]

  As I said yesterday, with reference to Facebook, the internet can be 
a very good thing, but we can't be naive in ignoring the dangers it 
represents when put to a perverse use to women, children, and others. 
What we did with FOSTA, or the Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, is an 
unqualified good thing. It is something that Republicans and Democrats 
worked on together with the President to pass and to sign into law. It 
is a good thing that we changed the provisions that inadvertently 
shielded the facilitators of sex trafficking online. It is one way we 
can make the internet a safer place for everyone.
  I applaud the bipartisan efforts of the Members here in both Chambers 
of Congress, as well as the President for his support. For those who 
think nothing good ever comes out of Washington these days and that 
Democrats and Republicans can't get along to pursue the public 
interest, this is exhibit No. 1, which I would offer, of the most 
recent efforts we have made to shut down this modern day human slavery.
  I yield the floor.
  Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, today the Senate will vote on the 
confirmation of John Ring to be a member of the National Labor 
Relations Board, NLRB. I am glad that we are voting on this nomination 
because, once Mr. Ring is confirmed, we will once again have a full 
five-member National Labor Relations Board.
  Created in 1935, the NLRB administers the National Labor Relations 
Act, which seeks to mitigate and eliminate labor-related impediments to 
the free flow of commerce. The 5 board members have 5-year, staggered 
terms, and the general counsel has a 4-year term.
  The NLRB should be a neutral umpire in labor disputes. While Board 
partisanship did not start under President Obama, it became worse under 
him. An overly partisan Board creates instability in our Nation's 
workplaces and does not serve the intent of the law, which is to create 
stable labor relations and the free flow of commerce.
  The NLRB under President Obama took two particularly harmful actions 
that are still in place today. First, the joint employer decision 
threatens the American dream for owners of the Nation's 780,000 
franchise locations. Under that decision, companies could find it much 
more practical to own all their stores and restaurants and daycare 
centers themselves, rather than encourage more franchisee-owned small 
businesses.
  Second is the ambush election rule, which can force a union election 
before employers and employees have a chance to figure out what is 
going on. The rule also forces employers to provide union organizers 
with a list of employees' work locations, shifts, job classifications, 
personal email addresses, and home and cellular telephone numbers. This 
information is highly personal, and employees may not want it shared, 
but workers do not have a choice. I am pleased the Board is accepting 
comments on whether this rule should be revised.
  A fully staffed board is vital to both employees and employers, and I 
am not the only one who thinks that is important. At a Senate Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, HELP, hearing in September 
2014, then-Chairman Harkin said, ``Keeping the NLRB fully staffed and 
able to do its work will send a strong message to the American people 
that yes, Washington can work, and our government can function.''
  While attending the Catholic University Columbus School of Law in the 
evening, Mr. Ring worked for the International Brotherhood of 
Teamsters. After law school, he joined the law firm Morgan, Lewis & 
Bockius, where he has worked since 1988. Mr. Ring flourished at the 
firm, where he worked his way up from summer associate to coleader of 
the firm's labor and management relations practice.
  Mr. Ring was nominated to be a member of the NLRB on January 18, 
2018. The HELP Committee held Mr. Ring's hearing on March 1, 2018, and 
he completed all paperwork in accordance with the committee's rules, 
practices, and procedures. We received Mr. Ring's HELP Committee 
paperwork and his Office of Government Ethics paperwork on January 24, 
2018, 36 days before his hearing. Mr. Ring offered to meet with all 
HELP Committee members and met with five of them, including two 
Democrats. Following his hearing, Mr. Ring responded to 97 questions 
for the record, or 158, if you include subquestions. These responses 
were provided to Senators prior to the markup, and the HELP Committee 
favorably reported Mr. Ring's nomination on March 14, 2018.
  I look forward to voting for John Ring, and I trust that he will 
serve with distinction.
  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, this week the Senate is considering two 
important labor-related nominations: the nominations of John Ring to 
serve as a Member of the National Labor Relations Board, NLRB, and 
Patrick Pizzella to serve as Deputy Secretary of Labor, DOL. 
Unfortunately, given the nominees' well-documented hostility to the 
collective bargaining rights of working men and women, I will not vote 
to confirm either of them.
  If Mr. Ring is confirmed, he will restore the Board to the 3-2 anti-
labor majority, with no assurances that President Trump will fill the 
Democratic seat of former chairman Mark Gaston Pearce expiring this 
summer. It is important to note here that nominations to the NLRB have 
traditionally been confirmed in bipartisan pairs.
  Mr. Ring authored blog posts calling the NLRB an ``activist'' 
organization during the Obama administration. In other blog posts, he 
characterized the NLRB's union election procedures as ``some of the 
biggest assaults on employer rights in recent history.'' In fact, the 
election rule simply modernized union election procedures and has 
actually resulted in slightly fewer union elections.
  During the brief 3-2 Republican majority late last year before then-
Board Chairman Phillip Miscimarra completed his term on December 16, 
2017, the NLRB rushed to overturn landmark decisions, weakening 
workers' rights under the National Labor Relations Act, NLRA, and 
undermining the statute's core purpose of promoting collective 
bargaining, including the Browning-Ferris Industries joint employer 
standard decision. The Board's inspector general has faulted those 
efforts, and the Board has been forced to vacate the joint employer 
decision. A new Republican majority may reorganize the NLRB in ways 
that are unfavorable to workers and their collective bargaining rights.
  Mr. Pizzella is a vocal advocate of so-called right-to-work laws. 
They really ought to be called right-to-be-exploited laws. As Ross 
Eisenbray of the Economic Policy Institute reported last year, ``Wages 
are 3.1 percent lower in so-called `right to work' (RTW) states, for 
union and nonunion workers alike--after correctly accounting for 
differences in cost of living, demographics, and labor market 
characteristics. The negative impact of RTW laws translates to $1,558 
less a year in earnings for a typical full-time worker.''
  There is a clear correlation between the decline in union membership 
and stagnant wages. If the Senate confirms Mr. Pizzella and Mr. Ring, 
the Republican assault on unions and collective bargaining rights 
enshrined in the National Labor Relations Act, NLRA, will gain 
momentum, and working people and their families will suffer as a 
result.
  Mr. Pizzella previously served at the Department of Labor, as 
Assistant Secretary of Labor for Administration and Management under 
President George W. Bush. During Mr. Pizzella's previous tenure at DOL, 
the Government Accountability Office, GAO, determined that the 
Department left workers vulnerable to unscrupulous employers while 
investigating complaints of minimum wage, overtime, and child labor 
violations. GAO found that the Wage and Hour Division's complaint 
intake, complaint resolution, and investigation processes were 
ineffective and discouraged workers from lodging wage-theft complaints.
  Mr. Pizzella also has expressed his antipathy to Federal workers and 
their unions. I am proud to represent many of these public servants. 
The Federal workforce is one of our Nation's finest assets, and public 
sector unions make it more productive.
  It is ironic that the Senate is considering two nominees this week 
who are

[[Page S2055]]

openly hostile to the collective bargaining rights of working people. 
Yesterday was Equal Pay Day, which symbolizes the number of extra days 
a typical woman who works full-time, year-round must work into 2018 to 
be paid what a typical man was paid in 2017. Women are still only paid 
80 cents for every dollar paid to a man, a yearly pay difference of 
$10,086, and the disparity is even worse for many women of color.

  Based on an analysis of Census Bureau data, the National Partnership 
for Women and Families is releasing a study which concludes that, in 
sum, women employed full time in the U.S. will lose nearly $900 billion 
to the wage gap this year. If the wage gap were closed, on average, a 
working woman in this country would be able to afford more than 1 
additional year of tuition and fees for a 4-year public university, 74 
more weeks of food for her family, nearly 7 more months of mortgage and 
utility payments, or 14 more months of childcare.
  If Mr. Ring and Mr. Pizzella and President Trump are unwilling to 
protect female workers and try to close that pay gap, which seems 
likely, then let us let us arm women with the most powerful tool in our 
legal system: the U.S. Constitution. Let us finally pass the Equal 
Rights Amendment, ERA.
  The ERA is barely longer than a tweet, but it would finally give 
women full and equal protection under the Constitution. Section 1 of 
the ERA states, quite simply, that ``Equality of rights under the law 
shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on 
account of sex.''
  When Congress proposed the ERA in 1972, it provided that the measure 
had to be ratified by three-fourths of the States--38 States--within 7 
years. This deadline was later extended to 10 years by a joint 
resolution, but ultimately only 35 out of 38 States had ratified the 
ERA when the deadline expired in 1982. Note that the deadline wasn't 
contained in the amendment itself; the deadline was in the text of the 
joint resolution.
  Article V of the Constitution contains no time limits for the 
ratification of amendments, so the ERA deadline is arbitrary. To put 
the matter in context, the 27th Amendment to the Constitution, which 
prohibits congressional pay raises without an intervening election, was 
ratified in 1992, 203 years after it was first proposed.
  The Senate should vote on a Senate Joint Resolution I have 
introduced--S.J. Res. 5--to remove the ERA deadline, and every State in 
our Union that has not yet taken up its consideration should do so 
without any further delay.
  Nevada became the 36th State to ratify the amendment last March, 
leaving the ERA just two States short of the required three-fourths of 
the States threshold under the Constitution if the deadline were to be 
abolished.
  The ERA would incorporate a ban on gender-based discrimination, 
explicitly written or otherwise, into the Constitution. It could change 
outcomes in discrimination cases by requiring the Supreme Court to use 
the higher standard of ``strict scrutiny'' when assessing those cases, 
the same standard used in racial and religious discrimination cases.
  I think many--perhaps most--Americans would be shocked to learn that 
our Constitution has no provision expressly prohibiting gender 
discrimination.
  In a 2011 interview, the late Justice Antonin Scalia summed up the 
need for an Equal Rights Amendment best. He said, ``Certainly the 
Constitution does not require discrimination on the basis of sex. The 
only issue is whether it prohibits it. It doesn't.''
  So I ask my Senate colleagues this question most sincerely: Are we 
willing to do what must be done to prohibit gender discrimination in 
the Constitution? The people being affected by systemic gender 
inequality are our constituents. They are our mothers, sisters, wives, 
daughters, and our granddaughters. They are American citizens who 
deserve basic respect and equality.
  It is time to end the assault on working families in this country. 
Let's end discrimination by making it possible to ratify the ERA. Let's 
close the pay gap. Let's stop denigrating Federal workers. Let's 
support, not attack, the collective bargaining rights that are the 
cornerstone of a strong middle class. I regret that the Senate is 
poised to confirm two individuals who are unlikely to assist these 
efforts. We can and must do better.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oklahoma.


                               Fair Trade

  Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, let me do a quick history lesson with 
this body. In 1773, the Colonies we were getting more and more 
frustrated with King George. There were a lot of issues we raised with 
him--a lot of taxes, a lot of changes, things that were happening in 
the judiciary, things that were arbitrary that were coming down. Then 
it boiled to a head.
  In December of 1773, a group of American colonists went out to Boston 
infuriated with the tariff policy over tea. The British East India 
Company had special access that no one else had. They had no taxes and 
everyone else had a tax--a tariff. It pushed out all of the other 
companies except for the British East India Company. A group of 
American colonists went out to one of the ships, grabbed all the tea in 
the harbor, and threw it overboard, creating the legendary Boston Tea 
Party.
  That was an argument about tariffs. It was an argument about 
international trade. It was an argument about American companies and 
fair trade, and we still talk about it today.
  It is interesting to note that in our letter that Thomas Jefferson 
wrote in 1776, which we now call the Declaration of Independence, in 
the long list of grievances that we wrote out to King George, we 
included this line: We are cutting off our trade with all parts of the 
world as one of our big grievances. That grievance fell between the 
grievance of the British Government allowing British soldiers to murder 
inhabitants in America and our taxes without consent. In between those 
was cutting off our international trade. We have been free traders as a 
nation since even before we were a nation, and we have been passionate 
about keeping it fair but keeping it free and keeping it open.
  Free trade is a big issue for us, and for some reason it has become 
this big national conversation again. Should we have free and fair 
trade? Should we continue to engage? What does it mean to have a 
deficit in our trade? Does it have to be equal with every country, that 
they buy from us as much as we buy from them? Suddenly, this has become 
a brand-new dialogue again.
  I wish to bring a couple of real world moments to this, beginning 
with the history lesson, by stating that trade--and international 
trade, specifically--was important to us even before we were a country. 
We were gathering supplies from all over the world to be able to do our 
basic production. We are still doing that today.
  For some reason I run into people that think this international 
supply chain is something new in this generation. I tell them that they 
should look at our history and see that the United States has always 
had an international supply chain.
  We are also 25 percent of the world's economy. There is no nation in 
the world that can afford to buy as much from us as we buy from them. 
We are the largest economy in the world, by far. We are going to buy 
more from other countries.
  The issue is, How does this work in our economy and how do we make 
sure we protect American manufacturing and the American consumer at the 
same time? Let me walk through what this looks like.
  Charlie and Mary Swanson are Oklahomans and third-generation farmers 
and ranchers who live in Roosevelt, OK, with a whopping population of 
241. The agricultural products they produce help feed the world. They 
raise wheat, cotton, cattle, and milo.
  Every year their crops are harvested using John Deere equipment. We 
look at the John Deere tractor and its beautiful green and we think: 
That is a great American company, except that parts of the equipment 
also come in its original form from Mexico. Parts come from India, and 
parts from Germany. Most of the parts come from the United States. They 
employ 60,000 people in the United States.
  It is a great American company--John Deere--but their cabs are made 
in Germany. Their hydraulic cylinders are made in Mexico. The castings 
from the foundry are from Iowa, but the guidance products are from 
California. Some of the transmission and electronic parts come from 
India, and

[[Page S2056]]

other parts are from Missouri. We see that as a great American tractor.

  The crews that harvest some of the Swanson's crops are folks that 
come in--legally, by the way--from New Zealand, Ireland, or South 
Africa. The wheat they produce goes to export markets all over the 
world. Some of it goes to Egypt, some to India, Japan, and South Korea.
  Their cotton is used all over the United States, but it is also 
shipped to China, as well, to produce fabrics. Some of the fabrics end 
up being made into garments that are shipped from Vietnam. Some of them 
end up right back here in the United States again, having started from 
the cotton from Roosevelt, OK.
  The milo they raise goes to feed. Most of that feed goes to Texas. If 
you are from Oklahoma, you may consider that international trade, but 
it is still domestic trade. A lot of the feed goes to China.
  They raise cattle, our great American beef. We eat as much beef as we 
can possibly eat in Oklahoma, and the rest of it we ship all over the 
world. Their beef is used in Oklahoma and all across the United States, 
but it is also sent to Japan, Korea, and Mexico.
  Understand this, just as an aside: In 2017, U.S. beef producers 
exported 1.2 million metric tons of beef worth $2 billion. That is just 
American beef going around the world. Two leading partners in that are 
Canada and Mexico--$980 million in exports. It is a big part of what 
they do.
  Charlie Swanson drives a Ford F-150 pickup. It is a great American 
product; isn't it? It is a great Ford truck. That F-150, by the way, is 
a fantastic vehicle. It is completely assembled in the United States, 
but the aluminum in that great American truck comes from Canada. About 
15 percent of the components in that great American truck come from 
Mexico. Some parts even come from China. That F-150 is not only used 
extensively in the United States, but it is also shipped around the 
world. There are a lot of F-150 trucks on the roads in Mexico, Canada, 
and, yes, even in China.
  That F-150 rides on four good, solid American-made tires, but the 
steel cord in those good American tires comes from all over the world. 
The steel in most of our tires is not made in the United States. A lot 
of the chemicals that go into the production of those tires are from 
Europe, Asia, and Latin America. They are good American tires. A lot of 
them are made in Oklahoma in the Goodyear facility--a phenomenal 
facility--or the Michelin plant in Ardmore. They make great American 
tires for a lot of vehicles all across the United States, but they have 
parts and pieces from around the world in those American-made tires, 
and they are shipping them out as well. So just speaking about Charlie 
and what is happening in Roosevelt, OK, population 241, the products 
they produce are going all over the world. The products they use, such 
as the John Deere tractor and the Ford F-150 with the Goodyear or 
Michelin tires are American-made, but are dependent on trade from all 
around the world.
  I could talk about Dr. Brent Hancock, born and raised in Kiowa 
County, OK. He left Kiowa County and went to the big city of Stillwater 
to attend Oklahoma State University, where he received his doctor of 
veterinary medicine degree. He returned back to Kiowa County and opened 
a veterinary clinic in Hobart in 1995. For over 20 years, Dr. Hancock 
has been taking care of vaccinations for sheep, cattle, pigs, goats, 
cats, and dogs. It is also rumored that Dr. Hancock can operate on your 
rabbit, but that is a whole different story.
  He vaccinates these animals with vaccines to provide some of the 
safest agricultural products in the world. Some of those vaccines come 
from companies like Bayer, which is an international company based in 
Germany. He also uses products from Merck. They have offices in 50 
countries, and they produce and ship their products to 140 countries 
around the world.
  Again, we look at him and say that he is a good American 
veterinarian. He must be all American, but he actually depends on 
products from all over the world to provide basic things.
  I cannot talk about Oklahoma without talking about oil and gas. Most 
of the pipe that goes down the hole in most of our wells is produced 
from steel that is not made in America. That particular type of steel 
that is down holding those wells is produced around the world but not 
here. We are dependent upon oil and gas that goes in the F-150 pickup 
and the John Deere tractor, and a part of it relies on steel from 
around the world.
  I can take you to Tulsa, OK--slightly larger than Kiowa County, I 
would say--to a manufacturing plant called SWEP. They employ 100 people 
and produce components for refrigerators and air conditioners. They 
import products from Europe, and they combine them with products that 
they are making in the United States and assemble them. That final 
product is sold all over the country and is also sold to Canada and 
Mexico--all from one company in Tulsa, OK.
  Drive up the road from Tulsa to Bartlesville to a manufacturing plant 
operated by ABB. They create a lot of products that are in wells, 
pipelines, and refineries all across America. That company imports 
products from suppliers from Canada and Mexico, and they create a final 
product that is sold all over the United States, and they sell it right 
back to Canada and Mexico as well.
  This shouldn't be shocking to anyone. This is the same structure that 
we have had since the 1700s as Colonies. We produce some of our 
products and ship them out. We buy some to be able to use in 
manufacturing. This is a nation that is very interconnected to the 
world, and it is exceptionally important that our trade agreements get 
resolved as fast as possible.
  I want fair trade. We had unfair trade in 1773 that we protested in 
the Boston Harbor. We still want fair trade agreements right now, but 
those trade agreements need to be resolved as fast as possible. Farmers 
and ranchers in Oklahoma cannot wait a year to find out what is going 
to happen in our trade policy. Some of them are on the edge of the 
knife right now of bankruptcy. They can't get anything on the futures 
market to try to figure out what is happening in the now to be able to 
make the basic investments they need to make for this year's crops.
  Predictability helps us, just like fair and free trade does. So while 
I understand full well that the administration is engaging in trade 
negotiations around the world, I encourage them to move from talking 
about these trade agreements to settling them--getting them resolved 
with Mexico and Canada and getting the best deal that we can have, 
resetting this agreement with NAFTA for another generation to prepare 
us for the future. Let's get that resolved. Those are our two largest 
trading partners. Resolve our trade agreement with Korea, locking that 
one in and finishing out all the area around Asia as well. Twelve of 
those nations have already resolved the trade agreements they are into, 
putting us behind. Those nations are forming contracts now. We need to 
engage as soon as we possibly can.
  There are big issues with China and trade. They have not been fair in 
all their trade agreements. We need to resolve our issues with China, 
and I am pleased that this administration is leaning in to resolve a 
long-term issue with China trade. It is about time someone does it, but 
we also need to get it resolved. We don't need retaliatory tariffs 
moving across every industry in our Nation destabilizing what we are 
doing in the economy. Let's get these issues resolved.
  Quite frankly, many of the trade issues that we have with the rest of 
the world aren't their tariffs, but they are our regulations. When our 
regulations and American redtape from our own government slow down our 
own economy, let's deal with our own house to make sure what we produce 
is competitive around the world, but in the meantime, let's move our 
trade conversations to trade agreements so we can continue to move on 
toward doing the same thing we have done since the 1700s as Americans; 
that is, trading with the entire world and leading the world with it.
  With that, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Ernst). The Senator from Alaska.


                                 China

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam President, as we all know, our country is facing 
a lot of challenges, particularly overseas, and a lot of them are in 
the news--Iran, Syria, North Korea. When you

[[Page S2057]]

look out across the landscape of what the big, long-term, geostrategic 
challenges are that face our Nation, in my view, there is no doubt that 
the No. 1 challenge economically and from a national security 
standpoint is the rise of China as a great power. We need to be 
thinking about that a lot more because that is going to be the issue 
our country faces, not just this year or next year but for decades.
  I come from the great State of Alaska. We are an Asia-Pacific State. 
We are always looking to that region--as a matter of fact, we are in 
that region. My hometown of Anchorage is closer to Tokyo than it is to 
Washington, DC. What I see as a positive on this issue--having been 
someone in this body for a little over 3 years, I have come down to the 
floor and talked a lot about this challenge, the rise of China. It is a 
little concerning that a couple of years ago nobody was talking about 
it. Very few people were talking about it, but that is changing, and I 
think that is positive.
  It is changing. This administration is focusing, and it is changing 
with my colleagues--Democrats and Republicans. Certainly, this is an 
area where, I think, there is a lot of agreement. I was just presiding 
for the last hour. The majority whip and the Senator from Oklahoma both 
were talking about issues dealing with China and trade and strategy, 
and that is positive.
  The administration is talking about it. If you look at the national 
security strategy of the Trump administration, they are starting to 
focus on this issue. Front and center is the return of great power 
rivalries, with China as the leading, pacing threat and challenge, but 
it is also an opportunity for this great Nation of ours.
  When you look at the history of our country, particularly post-World 
War II, the United States set up the international system--the 
international trading system and security system. We have been leading 
them, and so many countries--hundreds of millions of people in the 
world--benefited from that. The irony, of course, is that the one 
country that benefited probably more than almost anyone is China.
  The rise of China was not only helped, but it was spurred by the 
American international trading system, the sealanes of commerce that we 
have kept open for decades. So there was a moment in the last couple of 
decades where we reached out very much--there was a great speech by our 
former Deputy Secretary of State in the Bush administration, a 
gentleman by the name of Bob Zoellick, who went on to become head of 
the World Bank. He asked in a speech to the Chinese: You need to now 
become a responsible stakeholder in this system that we created because 
you have benefited so dramatically. You are big, you are powerful, and 
now help become a stakeholder in the international order that we set 
up. Here is the offer to you.
  Well, unfortunately, whether it is a Democrat or Republican, in the 
national security and foreign policy realm, most people are sensing 
that China has rejected that notion. No, we are not going to be a 
responsible stakeholder in your system. We are going to set up our own 
system. As a matter of fact, we might even try to undermine your 
system--the global system set up by the United States of America by 
Democrats and Republicans over decades.
  You see it everywhere, whether it is decades-long theft of 
intellectual property, whether it is high tariffs, whether it is any 
American company coming into China and being forced to transfer their 
technology. No other countries do this to China, but they are doing it 
to our companies and have been doing that for decades.
  So there is a rethinking right now. Clearly, the Trump administration 
is thinking about what the new strategy should be. The national 
security strategy of this administration, which I commend people to 
read--it is quite a good document, written by the outgoing National 
Security Advisor, H.R. McMaster--focuses a lot on this issue of 
reciprocity and great power rivalry again.
  So as we are thinking about it, I would like to briefly touch on 
three principles I think will be key as we debate this. As we help 
formulate this--hopefully, in a bipartisan manner--this issue is going 
to be with us for decades. There are three key principles.
  The first key principle is reciprocity--true reciprocity. The 
majority whip was just talking about this. The national security 
strategy of the Trump administration talks a lot about it. The 
President talks a lot about this. This is just a fairness issue. As I 
mentioned, there is IPR theft; high tariffs; the forced tech transfer 
from American companies to China; giant, subsidized, state-owned 
enterprises and state-backed investment funds buying up companies all 
over the world. No other country does that to China.
  So when you look at the issue of reciprocity, I would like to break 
it down into a positive and negative. You have negative reciprocity. If 
we can't do that in your country, you shouldn't be able to do it in our 
country. It is pretty simple, pretty fair, and everybody understands 
that.
  Then there is positive reciprocity. One thing I have been encouraging 
the Chinese to do for many years--and I have been over there a lot and 
spent a lot of time with senior leaders in that country. The United 
States has been going over and investing in China for decades. 
Factories have been rebuilt from the ground up and we have employed 
tens of thousands of Chinese with American capital. Well, you know 
what, China is getting big enough. They can do that in America. The 
Japanese did that in the 1980s. We had major trade disputes with them. 
What did they do? They started coming to our country and investing in 
our States with their capital, greenfield investments--auto factories, 
for example--and employing tens of thousands, if not hundreds of 
thousands, of Americans. We would welcome that. As a matter of fact, in 
Alaska, the Chinese are talking about helping us develop a large-scale 
Alaska natural gas project. Greenfield investment, employing Alaskans 
would be positive if that is going to happen. So that is the way we 
need to think about reciprocity.
  The second key principle is allies--allies, allies, allies. The 
United States is an ally-rich nation. Our adversaries and potential 
adversaries--think about whom that might be: Russia, North Korea, Iran, 
potentially China. They are ally-poor. No one wants to join the North 
Korea team or the Iran team--well, maybe Syria--but the United States 
for decades has had allies because they trust us. We are not a perfect 
nation, but they trust us. Look all over the world.
  So what we need to do with regard to our strategy on China is make 
sure we remember not only our allies and deepen current relationships 
with Japan, with Korea, with Australia, but expand them--Vietnam. The 
Presiding Officer and I went to Vietnam with the chairman of the Armed 
Services Committee, a war hero who spent time in prison in Vietnam, 
Senator McCain. The Vietnamese are very interested in doing more with 
us. India, there are incredible opportunities to have a deeper alliance 
between the oldest democracy in the world, us, and the biggest 
democracy in the world, them. So allies have to be a key part of our 
strategy as we look at how we deal with the rise of China for the next 
two or three or four or five decades because all of these countries--
all of our allies--are having the same challenges.
  Finally, the third principle we cannot lose sight of--and for too 
long this body lost sight of it--is robust American economic growth. 
Since the founding of our Nation, we have been growing at about 3 or 4 
percent GDP growth. I have a chart, and I talk about it all the time 
down here. Yet, over the last decade, because of policies we inflicted 
on the American people, we were barely growing at 1-percent GDP growth. 
What does that mean? Everybody talks about numbers, wonky. That is a 
proxy for the American dream, and we were not growing. We weren't 
growing. In Asia, the coin of the realm of power more than anything--
more than military power--is the power of your economy, and we have not 
had that. We have not shown up, and that matters.
  What we are trying to do in this body now--tax reform, regulatory 
reform, unleashing American energy--is we are going to start growing 
this economy again, and that is going to help the American people, that 
is going to reignite the American dream, but that is going to be key 
with any policy we deal with China.

[[Page S2058]]

  So as we are thinking through this challenge--and I am going to talk 
about this a lot, and I know all my colleagues are interested in this. 
I know my colleague from Michigan is interested in it--we need to 
continue to focus on these core principles--reciprocity, our allies, 
and robust economic growth as we all struggle with and put together a 
long-term strategy to deal with the rise of China, the challenges and 
the opportunities.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.
  Mr. PETERS. Madam President, our Nation's middle class was built by 
the hard work of American workers. At a time when our country has 
become increasingly polarized, we should all be able to agree that 
everybody should have a fair chance to succeed if they are willing to 
work hard and play by the rules.
  These truly American values have inspired generations of workers who 
stand together and collectively bargain for basic workplace protections 
such as fair wages, safe workplaces, and reasonable hours. These 
protections allow American workers and their families to be productive 
members of the economy and achieve their version of the American dream, 
but the American dream only exists if hard work is rewarded with the 
opportunity to earn a good living, provide for your loved ones, and, 
when it is all said and done, be able to retire with dignity.
  This is deeply personal to me. As a nurse's aide, my mother found 
opportunity and led the effort to organize her workplace. She went on 
to serve as an SEIU union steward.
  Unfortunately, in the years since I grew up in Rochester Hills, it 
feels as though the American dream has moved out of the reach for too 
many American families. Joining or staying in the middle class can be a 
daily struggle.
  We must fight every day to support and build the middle class, not 
chip away at fundamental worker rights. The laws, regulations, and 
administrative decisions that come out of Washington have a direct 
impact on American workers, unions, and the middle class.
  The National Labor Relations Board plays a central role in protecting 
the rights of American workers. The NLRB was created to safeguard their 
ability to unionize and engage in collective bargaining for fair 
workplace conditions.
  To work as intended, the NLRB must be made up of members deeply 
committed to representing the interests of American workers. 
Unfortunately, the nominee we will be considering shortly, Mr. John 
Ring, does not share this commitment. In fact, he is the third labor 
attorney President Trump has nominated to the committee with zero--let 
me say that again--zero track record of representing workers. He has 
only represented clients on the corporate and management side of labor 
issues.
  During Mr. Ring's tenure at one of the country's largest firms, he 
advised corporations on how to undermine worker protections. He also 
posted blogs opposing commonsense reforms to modernize union election 
procedures, classifying the NLRB actions as ``some of the biggest 
assaults on employer rights in recent history.''
  Mr. Ring would join recently confirmed Board member William Emanuel, 
who quickly ran into ethics trouble based on his history of 
representing corporations. Just 5 months after Mr. Emanuel's 
appointment, the NLRB was forced to vacate a major decision related to 
employer liability due to his conflicts of interest. Yet the 
administration continues full steam ahead with new nominees with 
extensive corporate ties and conflicts of interest.
  This administration is also breaking precedent and all conception of 
fairness by refusing to nominate new NLRB members in bipartisan pairs. 
Despite a pending Democratic vacancy on the panel, the President and 
Senate majority leader have instead chosen a partisan approach--
doubling down on the one-sided nature of a supposedly independent 
Federal agency. This is simply an unacceptable development, and it is 
an ongoing effort to silence our Nation's workers. Protecting American 
workers, the American middle class, and the American dream should not 
be a partisan issue.
  I am deeply concerned with Mr. Ring's appointment to the NLRB. If 
confirmed to the five-member Board, the voting majority of an agency 
charged with protecting workers' voices will be stacked with members 
who are focused on undermining fundamental worker rights. I think 
employers should be treated fairly but not at the expense of our 
Nation's workers and the American middle class. We need a balanced and 
fair NLRB, and we need NLRB members who will stick up for American 
workers and the middle class. Mr. Ring will not be that kind of NLRB 
member. The administration and the majority are actively preventing 
seating someone who will stand up for workers.
  I will be voting against Mr. Ring's confirmation, and I urge my 
colleagues to do the same.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, all time is expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Ring 
nomination?
  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The assistant bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Arizona (Mr. McCain).
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) 
is necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 50, nays 48, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 67 Ex.]

                                YEAS--50

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Hyde-Smith
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Paul
     Perdue
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--48

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Donnelly
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Hirono
     Jones
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCaskill
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Peters
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--2

     Duckworth
     McCain
       
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



