

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S101-S104]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-69, 
     concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Japan for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $133.3 million. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,

                                            Charles W. Hooper,

                                          Lieutenant General, USA,
                                                         Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-69

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Japan.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $123.0 million.
       Other $10.3 million.
       Total $133.3 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Four (4) Standard Missile-3 (SM-3) Block IIA Missiles.
       Non-MDE: Also included are four (4) MK 29 missile 
     canisters, U.S. Government and contractor representatives' 
     technical assistance, transportation, engineering and 
     logistics support services, and other related elements of 
     logistical and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Navy (JA-P-ATB).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: January 9, 2018.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

          Japan--Standard Missile-3 (SM-3) Block IIA Missiles

       Government of Japan has requested a possible sale of four 
     (4) Standard Missile-3 (SM-3) Block IIA missiles. Also 
     included are four (4) MK 29 missile canisters, U.S. 
     Government and contractor representatives' technical 
     assistance, transportation, engineering and logistics support 
     services, and other related elements of logistical and 
     program support. The estimated total case value is $133.3 
     million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security of the United States by improving the 
     security of a major ally that has been, and continues to be, 
     a force for political stability and economic progress in the 
     Asia-Pacific region.
       The proposed sale will provide Japan with an increased 
     ballistic missile defense capability to assist in defending 
     the Japanese homeland and U.S. personnel stationed there. 
     Japan will have no difficulty absorbing these additional 
     munitions and support into the Japan Maritime Self Defense 
     Force (JMSDF).

[[Page S102]]

       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The principal contractors will be Raytheon Missile Systems, 
     Tucson, AZ (SM-3); and BAE Systems, Minneapolis, MN (MK 29). 
     There are no known offset agreements proposed in connection 
     with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require annual 
     trips to Japan involving U.S. Government and contractor 
     representatives for technical reviews, support, and oversight 
     for approximately five years.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-69

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1)of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The proposed sale will involve the release of sensitive 
     technology to the Government of Japan related to the Standard 
     Missile-3 (SM-3) Block IIA missile. The ship- or ground-
     launched SM-3 Block IIA is the most recent iteration in the 
     SM-3 family. It has two distinct new features: larger rocket 
     motors that will allow it to defend broader areas from 
     ballistic missile threats; and a larger kinetic warhead. The 
     kinetic warhead has been enhanced, improving the search, 
     discrimination, acquisition and tracking functions, to 
     address emerging threats. Once enclosed in the canister, the 
     SM-3 Block IIA missile is classified CONFIDENTIAL. The optics 
     hardware and signal processor are classified SECRET.
       2. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of specific hardware, the information could be used 
     to develop countermeasures which might reduce weapons system 
     effectiveness or be used in the development of a system with 
     similar or advanced capabilities.
       3. A determination has been made that Japan can provide 
     substantially the same degree of protection for sensitive 
     technology being released as the U.S. Government. This 
     proposed sustainment program is necessary to the furtherance 
     of the U.S. foreign policy and national security objectives 
     outlined in the policy justification.
       4. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Japan.
                                  ____

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-50, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Oman for defense articles and 
     services estimated to cost $62 million. After this letter is 
     delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news release to 
     notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,

                                            Charles W. Hooper,

                                          Lieutenant General, USA,
                                                         Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-50

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1)of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Oman.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $0 million.
       Other $62 million.
       Total $62 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase: The Government of 
     Oman has requested a possible sale of items and services to 
     support an incremental Operational Flight Profile (OFP) 
     software upgrade for F-16 subsystems, as well as 
     Identification Friend or Foe (1FF) and secure communications 
     equipment for Mode 5 operations, on twenty-three (23) F-16 
     aircraft.
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
       Non-MDE includes: Non-MDE items and services consist of 
     twenty-nine (29) KIV-78 cryptographic/timing modules (twenty-
     three (23) installed and six (6) spares); twenty-nine (29) 
     KY-100M cryptographic radio encryptors (twenty-three (23) 
     installed and six (6) spares); twenty-nine (29) AN/APX-126 
     Combined Interrogator Transponders (twenty-three (23) 
     installed and six (6) spares); Classified and Unclassified 
     Computer Program Identification Numbers (CPINS) upgrades; OFP 
     upgrades for IFF Mode 5 capable systems; Joint Mission 
     Planning (JMPS) upgrade; Sniper Advanced Targeting Pod 
     software, service support, support equipment, spares, and 
     training; systems support and test equipment; spare and 
     repair parts; publications and technical documentation; 
     training and training equipment; U.S. Government and 
     contractor engineering; logistics and technical support 
     services; and other related elements of logistics and program 
     support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (MU-D-QAR).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: January 5, 2018.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

Oman--F-16 Operational Flight Profile and Identification Friend or Foe 
                             Mode 5 Upgrade

       The Government of Oman has requested a possible sale of 
     items and services to support an incremental Operational 
     Flight Profile (OFP) software upgrade for F-16 subsystems, as 
     well as Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) and secure 
     communications equipment for Mode 5 operations on twenty-
     three (23) F-16 aircraft. Non-MDE items and services consist 
     of twenty-nine (29) KIV-78 cryptographic/timing modules 
     (twenty-three (23) installed and six (6) spares); twenty-nine 
     (29) KY-100M cryptographic radio encryptors (twenty-three 
     (23) installed and six (6) spares); twenty-nine (29) AN/APX-
     126 Combined Interrogator Transponders (twenty-three (23) 
     installed and six (6) spares); Classified and Unclassified 
     Computer Program Identification Numbers (CPINS) upgrades; OFP 
     upgrades for IFF Mode 5 capable systems, Joint Mission 
     Planning (JMPS) upgrade; Sniper Advanced Targeting Pod 
     software, service support, support equipment, spares, and 
     training; systems support and test equipment; spare and 
     repair parts; publications and technical documentation; 
     training and training equipment; U.S. Government and 
     contractor engineering; logistics and technical support 
     services; and other related elements of logistics and program 
     support. The estimated cost is $62 million.
       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and 
     national security objectives of the United States by helping 
     to improve the security of a friendly country which has been, 
     and continues to be, an important force for political 
     stability and economic progress in the Middle East.
       The proposed sale allows the U.S. military to support the 
     Royal Air Force of Oman, further strengthen the U.S.-Omani 
     military-to-military relationship, and ensure continued 
     interoperability of forces and opportunities for bilateral 
     training and exercises with Oman's military forces.
       This proposed sale of items and services will enable Oman's 
     twenty-three (23) F-16s currently using Mode 4 IFF to become 
     interoperable on Mode 4/5. Mode 5 IFF allows U.S. and partner 
     airborne and surface armed forces to conduct complimentary 
     air operations. Incremental OFP software upgrades required to 
     support Mode 5 will provide additional incremental 
     improvement for other associated F-16 subsystems. Oman will 
     have no difficulty in absorbing these upgrades into its F-16 
     fleet.
       This proposed sale of equipment and support will not alter 
     the basic military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor will be Lockheed Martin of Fort Worth, 
     Texas. There are no known offset agreements proposed in 
     conjunction with this potential sale.
       The proposed sale will not require the long-term assignment 
     of any additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     representatives to Oman.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-50

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1)of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. This proposed sale of items and services to upgrade 
     Oman's F-16 aircraft will involve the release of sensitive 
     technology related to the Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) 
     and secure communications equipment.
       2. The AN/APX-126 Combined Interrogator Transponder is an 
     IFF dual Mode 4 and 5 capable system. It is UNCLASSIFIED 
     unless/until Mode 4 and/or Mode 5 operational evaluator 
     parameters are loaded into the equipment, which are 
     classified up to SECRET. Classified elements of the IFF 
     system include software object code, operating 
     characteristics, parameters, and technical data. Mode 4 and 
     Mode 5 anti-jam performance specifications/data, software 
     source code, algorithms, and tempest plans or reports will 
     not be offered, released, discussed, or demonstrated.
       3. KIV-78 is a crypto applique for Mode 5 IFF. The hardware 
     is UNCLASSIFIED unless loaded with Mode 4 and/or Mode 5 
     classified elements, which are classified up to SECRET.
       4. KY-100M is a cryptographic encryptor for voice radios to 
     provide secure communication capabilities. The hardware is 
     UNCLASSIFIED unless loaded with cryptograph keys, which are 
     classified up to SECRET.
       5. Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS) is a multi-
     platform, PC-based mission planning system. JMPS hardware is 
     UNCLASSIFIED, but the software is classified up to SECRET.
       6. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures that 
     might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the 
     development of a system with similar or advanced 
     capabilities.
       7. A determination has been made that Oman can provide 
     substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive 
     technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale 
     is necessary in furtherance

[[Page S103]]

     of the U.S. foreign policy and national security objectives 
     outlined in the policy justification.
       8. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Oman.
                                  ____

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-63, 
     concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Mexico for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $98.4 million. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,

                                            Charles W. Hooper,

                                          Lieutenant General, USA,
                                                         Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-63

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: The Government of Mexico.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $55.0 million.
       Other $43.4 million.
       Total $98.4 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Six (6) RGM-84L Harpoon Block II Surface Launched Missiles.
       Twenty-three (23) Block II Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM) 
     Tactical Missiles.
       Six (6) MK 54 Mod 0 Lightweight Torpedoes.
       Non-MDE includes: Also included are eight (8) MK 825 Mod 0 
     RAM Guided Missile Round Packs (GMRP) tri-pack shipping and 
     storage containers; RAM Block 2 MK 44 Mod 4 Guided Missile 
     Round Pack (GMRP); two (2) MK 32 Surface Vessel Torpedo Tubes 
     (SVTT) triple tube launchers; two hundred and fifty (250) 
     rounds of AA98 25 mm high explosive and semi-armor piercing 
     ammunition; seven hundred and fifty (750) rounds A976 25mm 
     target practice and tracer ammunition; four hundred and 
     eighty (480) rounds of BA22 57mm high explosive programmable 
     fuze ammunition; nine hundred and sixty (960) rounds of BA23 
     57mm practice ammunition; containers; spare and repair parts; 
     support and test equipment; publications and technical 
     documentation; personnel training and training equipment; 
     U.S. Government and contractor representatives' technical 
     assistance; engineering and logistics support services; 
     installation services; associated electronics and hardware to 
     control the launch of torpedoes; and other related elements 
     of logistics and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Navy.
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid. Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: January 5, 2018.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

 Government of Mexico--Harpoon Block II Missiles, RAM Missiles, and MK 
                              54 Torpedoes

       The Government of Mexico has requested to buy six (6) RGM-
     84L Harpoon Block II surface launched missiles, twenty-three 
     (23) Block II Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM) tactical 
     missiles and six (6) MK 54 Mod 0 lightweight torpedoes. Also 
     included are eight (8) MK 825 Mod 0 RAM Guided Missile Round 
     Packs (GMRP) tri-pack shipping and storage containers; RAM 
     Block 2 MK 44 Mod 4 Guided Missile Round Pack (GMRP); two (2) 
     MK 32 Surface Vessel Torpedo Tubes (SVTT) triple tube 
     launchers; two hundred and fifty (250) rounds of AA98 25 mm 
     high explosive and semi-armor piercing ammunition; seven 
     hundred and fifty (750) rounds A976 25mm target practice and 
     tracer ammunition; four hundred and eighty (480) rounds of 
     BA22 57mm high explosive programmable fuze ammunition; nine 
     hundred and sixty (960) rounds of BA23 57mm practice 
     ammunition; containers; spare and repair parts; support and 
     test equipment; publications and technical documentation; 
     personnel training and training equipment; U.S. Government 
     and contractor representatives' technical assistance; 
     engineering and logistics support services; installation 
     services; associated electronics and hardware to control the 
     launch of torpedoes; and other related elements of logistics 
     and program support. The estimated cost is $98.4 million.
       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and 
     national security of the United States by helping to improve 
     the security of a strategic partner. Mexico has been a strong 
     partner in combating organized crime and drug trafficking 
     organizations. The sale of these ship-based systems to Mexico 
     will significantly increase and strengthen its maritime 
     capabilities. Mexico intends to use these defense articles 
     and services to modernize its armed forces and expand its 
     existing naval and maritime support of national security 
     requirements and in its efforts to combat criminal 
     organizations.
       Mexico intends to use the weapon systems on its Mexican 
     Navy Sigma 10514 Class ship. The systems will provide 
     enhanced capabilities in effective defense of critical sea 
     lanes. The proposed sale of these systems and support will 
     increase the Mexican Navy's maritime partnership potential 
     and align its capabilities with existing regional navies. 
     Mexico has not purchased these systems previously. Mexico 
     will have no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its 
     armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment will not alter the 
     basic military balance in the region.
       The equipment will be provided from U.S. stocks. There are 
     no known offset agreements proposed in connection with this 
     potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require annual 
     trips to Mexico involving U.S. Government personnel and 
     contractor representatives for technical reviews, support, 
     and oversight for approximately two years.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-63

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The MK 32 SVTT system is UNCLASSIFIED, but the system 
     has one classified firmware card that controls launches. The 
     system is currently in service in the U.S. Navy and in 
     various other foreign nations that utilize shipboard launched 
     torpedoes. The firmware card is essential to the ability of 
     the system to successfully launch torpedoes when directed by 
     the shipboard command and control system.
       2. The RGM-84L Harpoon Surface Launched Block II missile 
     system, to include publications, documentation, operations, 
     supply, maintenance, and training to be conveyed with this 
     proposed sale have the highest classification level of 
     CONFIDENTIAL. The Harpoon Block II missile is a non-nuclear 
     tactical weapon system currently in service in the U.S. Navy 
     and in 29 other foreign nations. It provides a day, night, 
     and adverse weather, standoff surface-to-surface capability 
     and is an effective Anti-Surface Warfare missile. The RGM-84L 
     incorporates components, software, and technical design 
     information that are considered SENSITIVE.
       3. The following components being conveyed by the proposed 
     sale are considered sensitive and are classified 
     CONFIDENTIAL:
       a. The Radar Seeker
       b. The GPS/INS System
       c. Operational Flight Program Software
       d. Missile operational characteristics and performance data
       These elements are essential for the Harpoon Block II 
     missile to selectively engage hostile targets under a wide 
     range of operational, tactical and environmental conditions. 
     The version being sold to Mexico is not the Coastal Target 
     Suppression land attack missile version.
       4. MK 54 All-Up-Round Lightweight (Warshot) torpedoes and 
     associated support equipment, training, test equipment, and 
     technical support; Recoverable Exercise Torpedoes (REXTORPs); 
     and Exercise Torpedoes (EXTORPs) are associated with this 
     sale. The MK 54 Lightweight Torpedo (LWT) can be launched 
     from surface ships, helicopters, and fixed wing aircraft. The 
     MK 54 LWT is an upgrade to the MK 46 Torpedo. The MK 54 LWT 
     contains new sonar, guidance and control systems with modern 
     technology. The new guidance and control system uses a 
     mixture of commercial-off-the-shelf and custom-built 
     electronics. The warhead, fuel tank, and propulsion system 
     from the MK 46 torpedo are re-used in the MK 54 configuration 
     with minor modifications. The MK 54 is highly effective 
     against modern diesel and nuclear submarines. It has advanced 
     logic that allows it to detect and prosecute threat 
     submarines operating in challenging littoral environments. It 
     is also effective in the presence of advanced countermeasures 
     that may be deployed by threat submarines. The assembled MK 
     54 torpedo and several of its individual components are 
     classified CONFIDENTIAL. The MK 54 operational software is 
     classified as SECRET as is any hardware upon which the 
     software has been installed. Mexico has not requested nor 
     will it be provided the source code for the MK 54 operational 
     software. The MK 54 has a feature referred to as ``Memory 
     Scuttle'' that erases the operational software at the 
     conclusion of any exercise firing so that the software will 
     not be compromised if the torpedo is not recovered after the 
     exercise firing. Possession of MK 54 Torpedoes and associated 
     equipment should not lead to any vulnerability disclosures.
       5. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures or 
     equivalent systems which might reduce weapon system 
     effectiveness or be used in the development of a system with 
     similar or advanced capabilities.
       6. A determination has been made that the Government of 
     Mexico can provide substantially the same degree of 
     protection for the sensitive technology being released as the 
     U.S. Government. This proposed sale is necessary to the 
     furtherance of the U.S. foreign

[[Page S104]]

     policy and national security objectives outlined in the 
     Policy Justification.
       7. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Mexico.

                          ____________________



