

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S549-S550]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 243

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 243, a bill to provide for a 
permanent extension of the enforcement instruction on supervision 
requirements for outpatient therapeutic services in critical access and 
small rural hospitals.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in

[[Page S550]]

recognition of his heroic achievements and courageous contributions to 
peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 337

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 337, a bill to 
provide paid family and medical leave benefits to certain individuals, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 505

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 505, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an energy equivalent of a 
gallon of diesel in the case of liquefied natural gas for purposes of 
the Inland Waterways Trust Fund financing rate.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with disabilities to 
save additional amounts in their ABLE accounts above the current annual 
maximum contribution if they work and earn income.


                                 S. 836

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 836, a bill to amend the 
Federal Credit Union Act to exclude a loan secured by a non-owner 
occupied 1- to 4-family dwelling from the definition of a member 
business loan, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1344

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1344, a bill to 
promote the development of local strategies to coordinate use of 
assistance under sections 8 and 9 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 with public and private resources, to enable eligible families to 
achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1453

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1453, a bill to 
allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to designate certain 
substance use disorder treatment facilities as eligible for National 
Health Service Corps service.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1503, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th 
anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1678

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1678, a bill to 
amend the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to improve access 
to grants and loans for evidence-based substance use disorder treatment 
services in rural areas, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2219

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2219, a bill to 
reduce the number of preventable deaths and injuries caused by 
underride crashes, to improve motor carrier and passenger motor vehicle 
safety, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2341

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2341, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the processing of veterans 
benefits by the Department of Veterans Affairs, to limit the authority 
of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to recover overpayments made by 
the Department and other amounts owed by veterans to the United States, 
to improve the due process accorded veterans with respect to such 
recovery, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 361

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 361, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States Government 
shall, both unilaterally and alongside the international community, 
consider all options for exerting maximum pressure on the Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), in order to denuclearize the DPRK, 
protect the lives of United States citizens and allies, and prevent 
further proliferation of nuclear weapons.


                              S. RES. 368

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) and the Senator 
from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 
368, a resolution supporting the right of all Iranian citizens to have 
their voices heard.


                              S. RES. 376

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 376, a 
resolution urging the Governments of Burma and Bangladesh to ensure the 
safe, dignified, voluntary, and sustainable return of the Rohingya 
refugees who have been displaced by the campaign of ethnic cleansing 
conducted by the Burmese military.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono), the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 377, a 
resolution recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those 
individuals who have faithfully served and retired from the Armed 
Forces of the United States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military 
Retiree Appreciation Day'', and encouraging the people of the United 
States to honor the past and continued service of military retirees to 
their local communities and the United States.

                          ____________________



