

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1081-H1083]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    LEXINGTON VA HEALTH CARE SYSTEM

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 4533) to designate the health care system of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs in Lexington, Kentucky, as the 
``Lexington VA Health Care System'' and to make certain other 
designations, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 4533

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds the following:
       (1)(A) Private First Class Franklin Runyon Sousley was born 
     on September 19, 1925, in Hilltop, Kentucky. Sousley served 
     as a marine in the United States Marine Corps during the 
     period beginning on January 5, 1944, and ending March 21, 
     1945. Sousley graduated from Fleming County High School in 
     May 1943 and chose to enlist in the United States Marine 
     Corps. Upon completion of military basic training, he was 
     assigned to Company E, 2d Battalion, 28th Marines, of the 5th 
     Marines Division at Camp Pendleton, California, as an 
     automatic rifleman.
       (B) Private Sousley was promoted to a private first class 
     on November 22, 1944. Pfc. Sousley landed on Iwo Jima on 
     Friday, February 19, 1945, and actively fought in the battle 
     for the islands. During the intense fighting, members of the 
     United States Armed Forces secured Mount Suribachi and 
     hoisted a United States flag on top of the summit on February 
     23, 1945. On February 23, 1945, Pfc. Sousley, alongside 
     Corporal Harlon Block, HM John Bradley, Pfc. Rene Gagnon, 
     Pfc. Ira Hayes, and Sergeant Michael Strank followed orders 
     to raise a larger United States flag so it could be seen over 
     the island. The iconic photograph taken of the 6 men, while 
     they raised the United States flag attached to a heavy 
     Japanese pipe has led to an immortalized symbol of American 
     bravery, perseverance, and sacrifice endured by members of 
     the United States Armed Forces during the intense battles of 
     World War II. Pfc. Sousley was killed in combat by a Japanese 
     sniper around Kitano Point on March 21, 1945.
       (C) Originally buried in the 5th Marine Division Cemetery 
     at Iwo Jima in plot 9, row 8, grave 2189, on March 22, 1945, 
     his remains were returned to the United States on May 8, 
     1947, where he was finally laid to rest at Elizaville 
     Cemetery in Fleming County, Kentucky. Pfc. Sousley was 
     posthumously awarded the Purple Heart, the Combat Action 
     Ribbon, the Presidential Unit Citation with \5/16\" Silver 
     Star, the American Campaign Medal, the Asiatic-Pacific 
     Campaign Medal with \3/16\" Bronze Star, and the World War II 
     Victory Medal.
       (2)(A) Mr. Troy Bowling was born on July 2, 1926, in 
     Hamilton, Ohio and completed his life's service on June, 17, 
     2017, at the age of 90 years old. At age 17, Mr. Bowling 
     began his service as a United States Marine and was a proud 
     member of the Easy Company, 2nd Battalion, 27th Marines, 5th 
     Division. During the United States campaign to end the war 
     against Japan, Mr. Bowling's unit was among the first to 
     arrive on the beachheads of Iwo Jima.
       (B) While attempting to secure Mt. Suribachi, his unit came 
     under intense and concentrated fire, completely overwhelming 
     his unit. Two projectiles struck Mr. Bowling in the chest and 
     leg, leaving him critically wounded on the battlefield. At 
     that moment, Mr. Bowling said he looked to the heavens and 
     committed to serving mankind for the rest of his life if he 
     survived.
       (C) Miraculously, a combat photographer and medical team 
     then carried Mr. Bowling to the safety of a landing craft 
     where he witnessed the planting of the American flag atop Mt. 
     Suribachi--an iconic image that persists as one of the most 
     legendary and triumphant moments of the war. The United 
     States Marines eventually took control of the island; 
     however, this victory came at a heavy cost as more than 6,800 
     United States service members gave their lives during the 
     battle of Iwo Jima.
       (D) In keeping faith with his commitment to God made during 
     that battle, Mr. Bowling devoted more than 78,000 hours of 
     volunteer service to others at the Lexington VA Medical 
     Center. For more than 66 years, Mr. Bowling has risen through 
     the ranks within the Disabled American Veterans (DAV) 
     organization, holding nearly every position possible, 
     including State Commander. Mr. Bowling received the George H. 
     Seal Award for outstanding volunteer, which he received at

[[Page H1082]]

     the 2005 National DAV Convention in Las Vegas and the 
     Lifetime Service Achievement Award from the Department of 
     Veteran Affairs. Mr. Bowling was also nominated and selected 
     to be inducted in the Kentucky Veterans Hall of Fame for his 
     lifetime of service to veterans.

     SEC. 2. LEXINGTON VA HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.

       (a) Designation.--The health care system of the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs in Lexington, Kentucky, shall after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act be known and designated as 
     the ``Lexington VA Health Care System''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     health care system referred to in subsection (a) shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to the ``Lexington VA Health Care 
     System''.

     SEC. 3. TROY BOWLING CAMPUS.

       (a) Designation.--The health care facility of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs located at 1101 Veterans Drive 
     in Lexington, Kentucky, shall after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act be known and designated as the ``Troy Bowling 
     Campus''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     health care facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to the ``Troy Bowling Campus''.

     SEC. 4. FRANKLIN R. SOUSLEY CAMPUS.

       (a) Designation.--The health care facility of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs located at 2250 Leestown Road 
     in Lexington, Kentucky, shall after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act be known and designated as the ``Franklin R. 
     Sousley Campus''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     health care facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to the ``Franklin R. Sousley 
     Campus''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Roe) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Takano) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4533, as amended, a bill 
to designate the collective healthcare facilities of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, VA, in Lexington, Kentucky, as the Lexington VA 
Health Care System; to designate the Lexington VA Medical Center 
Leestown Division as the Franklin R. Sousley Campus; and to designate 
the Lexington VA Medical Center Cooper Division as the Troy Bowling 
Campus.
  The bill is sponsored by my good friend Congressman Andy Barr from 
Kentucky, and I am grateful to him for introducing this legislation in 
honor of two American heroes.
  One healthcare facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs located 
at 2250 Leestown Road in Lexington, Kentucky, would be named the 
Franklin R. Sousley Campus in honor of Private First Class Franklin 
Runyon Sousley.
  Private First Class Sousley was born in Hilltop, Kentucky, and became 
a marine in 1944. Following basic training, he was assigned to the 
newly formed Fifth Marine Division at Camp Pendleton, California, and 
slated for the upcoming invasion of Iwo Jima.
  A force of 70,000 marines, including Private First Class Sousley, 
landed on February 19, 1945, on the south side of the island of Iwo 
Jima. On the fourth day of the invasion, Private First Class Sousley 
was one of the six men in the famous photograph of United States 
Marines raising the flag on Mount Suribachi. Tragically, he was killed 
in action by a Japanese sniper 27 days later.
  Private First Class Sousley was posthumously awarded the Purple 
Heart, the Combat Action Ribbon, the Presidential Unit Citation with a 
Silver Star, the American Campaign Medal, the Asiatic Pacific Campaign 
Medal with a Bronze Star, and the World War II Victory Medal.
  The other healthcare facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
located at 1101 Veterans Drive in Lexington, Kentucky, would be named 
the Troy Bowling Campus in honor of Private Troy Bowling.
  Private Troy Bowling was born in Hamilton, Ohio, and was another 
proud marine who served during World War II. Private Bowling's unit was 
among the first to land at the beaches of Iwo Jima. His unit came under 
intense and concentrated fire, completely overwhelming his unit.
  Two projectiles struck Mr. Bowling, leaving him critically wounded on 
the battlefield. At that moment, Private Bowling said he looked to the 
heavens and committed to serving mankind for the rest of his life if he 
survived. Miraculously, a combat photographer and medical team then 
carried Mr. Bowling to the safety of a landing craft, where he 
witnessed the planting of the American flag atop Mount Suribachi.
  Private Bowling followed through on his battlefield promise to God, 
devoting over 78,000 hours of volunteer service at the Lexington VA 
Medical Center and rising through the ranks of the Disabled American 
Veterans, eventually holding nearly every position possible, including 
state commander.
  At the 2005 DAV National Convention, Private Bowling received the 
George H. Seal Award for outstanding volunteer and the VA Lifetime 
Service Achievement Award. Mr. Bowling was also nominated and selected 
to be inducted into the Kentucky Veterans Hall of Fame for his lifetime 
of service to veterans.
  After a life of service to our Nation and his brothers and sisters in 
arms, he passed away on June 17, 2017.
  Mr. Speaker, it is only fitting and appropriate that, a week before 
the 73rd anniversary of the invasion of Iwo Jima, we honor both these 
heroes by naming the two VA medical center campuses in Lexington, 
Kentucky, after them. This legislation satisfies all the committee's 
naming criteria and is cosponsored by the entire Kentucky congressional 
delegation and supported by many Kentucky veteran service 
organizations. I am proud to support it, as well, and urge my 
colleagues to join me.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support H.R. 4533, which designates the 
healthcare system of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Lexington, 
Kentucky, as the Lexington VA Health Care System.
  However, it is two other designations in this bill that I wish to 
highlight because they honor the memories of two extraordinary Greatest 
Generation heroes from Kentucky: Troy Bowling and Franklin R. Sousley. 
H.R. 4533 names two campuses in the Lexington, Kentucky, healthcare 
system after these brave marines.
  Seventy-three years ago this month, United States Marines landed on 
the Pacific island of Iwo Jima and engaged the Japanese forces in some 
of the most intense and costly fighting of World War II. Among them 
were Troy Bowling and Franklin R. Sousley, just teenagers at the time.
  Bowling's unit was among the first to arrive on Iwo Jima. On the 
second day, he was critically wounded by mortars and eventually 
evacuated to the beach, where he received lifesaving care and witnessed 
the raising of the American flag atop Mount Suribachi. Lying wounded on 
that beach, Mr. Bowling made a deal with God that, if he survived, he 
would spend his life in the service of others.
  He kept that promise over the next 72 years through more than 78,000 
hours of volunteer service at the Lexington VA Medical Center. In his 
work with the Disabled American Veterans, he has held nearly 
every position possible, including state commander, among others; and 
he is the recipient of the Lifetime Service Achievement Award from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.

  Now, upon his arrival on the island of Iwo Jima, Private Sousley was 
also involved in intense, concentrated fighting. Eventually, as we all 
know, American forces prevailed. Private Sousley was among the six 
marines proudly hoisting that flag. Tragically, less than a month 
later, he would be killed in action. Highly decorated for bravery, 
Private Sousley is now buried in the Elizaville Cemetery in Fleming 
County, Kentucky.
  These two men are the personification of duty, patriotism, and self-
sacrifice. It is entirely appropriate that the two campuses of the 
Lexington VA Health Care System be named in their honor.

[[Page H1083]]

  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. Barr), who is my good friend and Mr. Bowling's 
Congressman from Lexington.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Roe for his tireless 
leadership as a veteran himself, as a physician, and for his 
exceptional leadership on veterans issues as chairman of the committee.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4533, to designate the 
healthcare system of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Lexington, 
Kentucky, my hometown, as the Lexington VA Health Care System and to 
individually designate medical facilitates located at 1101 Veterans 
Drive in Lexington, Kentucky, as the Troy Bowling Campus, a campus 
where my own grandfather, a World War II veteran, spent his final days; 
and to designate the Department of Veterans Affairs Healthcare Center 
located at 2250 Leestown Road in Lexington, Kentucky, as the Franklin 
R. Sousley Campus.
  Born in Hilltop, Kentucky, Marine Private First Class Franklin R. 
Sousley landed on Iwo Jima on Friday, February 19, 1945, and he 
actively fought in the battle for the islands. During these intense 
fighting moments, members of the United States Armed Forces secured 
Mount Suribachi and hoisted a United States flag on top of the summit.
  On February 23, 1945, Private First Class Sousley, alongside five 
other brave U.S. servicemembers, raised a larger U.S. flag so it could 
be seen over the island. The iconic photograph taken of these six 
marines while they raised the U.S. flag attached to a heavy Japanese 
pipe soon became the immortalized symbol of American bravery, 
perseverance, and sacrifice endured by members of the United States 
Armed Forces during the intense battles of World War II.
  Tragically, Private First Class Sousley was killed in combat by a 
Japanese sniper around Cayetano Point on March 21, 1945, and was 
finally laid to rest at the Elizaville Cemetery in Fleming County, 
Kentucky. I have been to that grave site many times. The VFW in Fleming 
County always, on an annual basis, goes out there to pay their respects 
to the Sousley family right at that grave site.
  Private Troy Bowling bravely fought at Iwo Jima. While attempting to 
secure Mount Suribachi, his unit came under intense and concentrated 
fire, as was previously said, completely overwhelming his unit. Two 
projectiles struck Private Bowling in the chest and leg, leaving him 
critically wounded on the battlefield. At that moment, Bowling said: 
``As I lay bleeding on the black sands of Iwo Jima, I looked to the 
heavens, promising that, if I survived, I would serve mankind for the 
rest of my life.''
  Troy's unit received the Presidential Unit Citation, and he received 
the Purple Heart. In keeping faith with his commitment to God made 
during that battle, Private Bowling, whom I had the honor of meeting on 
several occasions, devoted the next 66 years of his life by giving over 
78,000 hours of volunteer service to others at the Lexington VA Medical 
Center, and he rose through the ranks within the Disabled American 
Veterans organization, holding nearly every position, including state 
commander.
  He also received a Lifetime Service Achievement Award from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and was nominated and selected to be 
inducted into the Kentucky Veterans Hall of Fame for his lifetime of 
service to veterans.
  These two deserving veterans, Franklin Sousley and Troy Bowling, 
embody the best of American ideals, values, and commitment to serving 
others, never abandoning the marine motto of ``semper fidelis,'' always 
faithful. Therefore, it is fitting that we rename the Lexington VA 
Medical Center campuses during the 73rd anniversary of the landing of 
the U.S. forces on the beaches of Iwo Jima and honor these two 
servicemembers for their service and sacrifice to our country and to 
our veterans.
  I would like to thank the members of the Sixth Congressional District 
Veterans Coalition for bringing the idea for this legislation to my 
attention. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Kentucky 
congressional delegation--Leader Mitch McConnell, Senator Rand Paul, 
Congressman Hal Rogers, Congressman John Yarmuth, Congressman Brett 
Guthrie, Congressman Thomas Massie, and Congressman James Comer--for 
their support as well.
  Mr. Speaker, in closing, I urge my colleagues in the House to support 
the passage of this meaningful legislation honoring veterans in 
Kentucky.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I urge my 
colleagues to join me in passing this meaningful piece of legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1545

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support this 
legislation. From this Army veteran, I wish Private Sousley and Private 
Bowling to rest in peace. Semper fi.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 4533, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



