

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2033]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(l) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-24, 
     concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Qatar for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $300 million. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                Gregory M. Kausner
       (For Charles W. Hooper,
       Lieutenant General, USA,
       Director).
       Enclosure.


                         Transmittal No. 17-24

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(l) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Qatar.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $250 million.
       Other $50 million.
       Total $300 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       MDE:
       Five thousand (5,000) Advanced Precision Kill Weapon 
     Systems (APKWS) II Guidance Sections.
       Non-MDE: Also included are five thousand (5,000) MK66-4 
     2.75 inch Rocket Motors, five thousand (5,000) High Explosive 
     Warheads for Airborne 2.75 inch Rockets, inert MK66-4 2.75 
     inch Rocket Motors, Inert High Explosive Warhead for Airborne 
     2.75 inch Rockets, support equipment, spares, training, 
     publications, engineering technical assistance, program 
     management technical assistance, logistics support services, 
     and other related elements of program support.
       (iv) Military Department: U.S. Army (QA-B-WYX).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: QA-B-WYX, 19 Aug 14).
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 9, 2018.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

  Qatar--Five thousand (5,000) Advanced Precision Kill Weapon Systems 
               (APKWS) and Related Equipment and Support

       The Government of Qatar has requested a possible sale of 
     five thousand (5,000) Advanced Precision Kill Weapon Systems 
     (APKWS) II Guidance Sections. Also included are five thousand 
     (5,000) MK66-4 2.75 inch rocket motors, five thousand (5,000) 
     high explosive warheads for airborne 2.75 inch rockets, inert 
     MK66-4 2.75 inch rocket motors, inert high explosive warhead 
     for airborne 2.75 inch rockets, support equipment, spares, 
     training, publications, engineering technical assistance, 
     program management technical assistance, logistics support 
     services, and other related elements of program support. The 
     estimated total program value is $300 million.
       This proposed sale supports the foreign policy and national 
     security objectives of the United States. Qatar is an 
     important force for political stability and economic progress 
     in the Persian Gulf region. Our mutual defense interests 
     anchor our relationship and the Qatar Emiri Air Force (QEAF) 
     plays a predominant role in Qatar's defense.
       Qatar intends to use these defense articles and services to 
     modernize its armed forces. This will contribute to Qatar's 
     military goal by providing additional capability to its new 
     AH-64E aircraft fleet. The APKWS will provide Qatar with a 
     low-cost precision strike capability, decreasing collateral 
     damage and expanding its options for counterterrorism 
     operations. Qatar will have no difficulty absorbing this 
     equipment into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The principal contractor involved in this program is BAE, 
     Nashua, New Hampshire. There are no known offset agreements 
     proposed in connection with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require two U.S. 
     Government or contractor representatives to travel to the 
     State of Qatar for a period of one week to train in assembly 
     and Wing Slot Seal replacement.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-24

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(l) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The APKWS II All-Up-Round is an air-to-ground weapon 
     that consists of an APKWS II Guidance Section (GS), legacy 
     2.75 inch MK66 Mod 4 rocket motor and legacy MK152 and MK435/
     436 warhead/fuse. The APKWS II GS is installed between the 
     rocket motor and warhead and provides a Semi-Active Laser 
     (SAL) precision capability to legacy unguided 2.75-inch 
     rockets. The APKWS II is procured as an independent component 
     to be mated to the appropriate 2.75-inch warhead/fuse; 
     however, for this case the APKWS II will be delivered as an 
     All-up-Round (AUR).
       2. The GS is manually set with the appropriate laser code 
     during loading and is launched from any platform configured 
     with a LAU-68F/A, or similar launcher(s). After launch, the 
     GS activates and the seeker detects laser energy reflected 
     from a target designated with a remote or autonomous laser. 
     The control system then guides the rocket to the target.
       3. The only interface required with the host platform is a 
     28V Direct Current (DC) firing pulse.
       4. APKWS II increases stowed kills by providing precise 
     engagements at standoff ranges with sufficient accuracy for a 
     high single-shot probability of hit against soft and lightly 
     armored targets, thereby minimizing collateral damage. The 
     APKWS II is capable of day and night operations and 
     performance is many adverse environments.
       5. All training for APKWS II is UNCLASSIFIED. The training 
     required is: pilot training to effectively employ the APKWS 
     II, ordnance handler for safe handling and preparation of the 
     APKWS II and AUR, and maintenance training for replacement of 
     the Wing Slot Seal (WSS).
       6. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     State of Qatar.

                          ____________________



