

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1686-S1688]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a 
voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to 
amend title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and services provided 
by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 804

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 804, a bill to improve the 
provision of health care for women veterans by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 948

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 948, a bill to designate 
as wilderness certain Federal portions of the red rock canyons of the 
Colorado Plateau and the Great Basin Deserts in the State of Utah for 
the benefit of present and future generations of people in the United 
States.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for certain 
rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center services 
furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the 
Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 1112, a bill to support 
States in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers during 
pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to eliminate 
disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related and 
pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve health 
care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1864

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1864, a 
bill to expand the

[[Page S1687]]

use of open textbooks in order to achieve savings for students.


                                S. 2046

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2046, a bill to 
amend titles 5 and 44, United States Code, to require Federal 
evaluation activities, improve Federal data management, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2060

  At the request of Ms. Warren, her name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2060, a bill to promote democracy and human rights in Burma, and for 
other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2060, supra.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2076, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of 
activities related to Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain 
health under the Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2109

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2109, a bill to count 
revenues from military and veteran education programs toward the limit 
on Federal revenues that certain proprietary institutions of higher 
education are allowed to receive for purposes of section 487 of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2135, a bill to enforce 
current law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check 
System.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2236, a bill to 
require covered discrimination and covered harassment awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered discrimination and covered harassment complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2263

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2263, a bill to 
amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to require base acres planted to 
fruits, vegetables, and wild rice to be considered planted to a covered 
commodity for purposes of any recalculation of base acres.


                                S. 2334

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2334, a bill to amend title 17, United States Code, 
to provide clarity with respect to, and to modernize, the licensing 
system for musical works under section 115 of that title, to ensure 
fairness in the establishment of certain rates and fees under sections 
114 and 115 of that title, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets under 
direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and other 
figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2356

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2356, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to address staffing and other issues 
at facilities, including underserved facilities, of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2383

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator 
from Arizona (Mr. Flake) were added as cosponsors of S. 2383, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to improve law enforcement access 
to data stored across borders, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2421, a bill to amend the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 to provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and 
penalties for releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at 
farms.


                                S. 2497

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2497, a bill to 
amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control 
Act to make improvements to certain defense and security assistance 
provisions and to authorize the appropriations of funds to Israel, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2500

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2500, a bill 
to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the women in the 
United States who joined the workforce during World War II, providing 
the vehicles, weaponry, and ammunition to win the war, that were 
referred to as ``Rosie the Riveter'', in recognition of their 
contributions to the United States and the inspiration they have 
provided to ensuing generations.


                                S. 2525

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2525, a bill to ensure 
that the Federal Government shall not take any discriminatory action 
against a person, wholly or partially on the basis that such person 
speaks, or acts, in accordance with a sincerely held religious belief 
or moral conviction that marriage is or should be recognized as a union 
of one man and one woman, or two individuals as recognized under 
Federal law, or that sexual relations outside marriage are improper.


                              S.J. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 54, a joint 
resolution to direct the removal of United States Armed Forces from 
hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that have not been authorized by 
Congress.


                              S. RES. 386

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley), the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the 
Senator from Georgia (Mr. Isakson) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 
386, a resolution urging the Government of the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo to fulfill its agreement to hold credible elections, comply 
with constitutional limits on presidential terms, and fulfill its 
constitutional mandate for a democratic transition of power by taking 
concrete and measurable steps towards holding elections not later than 
December 2018 as outlined in the existing election calendar, and 
allowing for freedom of expression and association.


                              S. RES. 424

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 424, a resolution 
honoring the 25th anniversary of the National Guard Youth Challenge 
Program.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2107

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2107 
intended to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, 
provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2134

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
2134 intended to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic 
growth, provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer 
protections, and for other purposes.

[[Page S1688]]

  



                           AMENDMENT NO. 2157

  At the request of Ms. Cortez Masto, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2157 
intended to be proposed to S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, 
provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



