

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 20, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1845-S1846]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to maximize 
discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of promising 
childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to 
expand eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for 
family caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand 
benefits available to participants under such program, to enhance 
special compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 661

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 661, a bill to assist 
entrepreneurs, support development of the creative economy, and 
encourage international cultural exchange, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 905

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 905, a bill to require a report on, and to authorize technical 
assistance for, accountability for war crimes, crimes against humanity, 
and genocide in Syria, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1050, a bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
collectively, to the Chinese-American Veterans of World War II, in 
recognition of their dedicated service during World War II.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1112, a bill to 
support States in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers 
during pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to 
eliminate disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related 
and pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve 
health care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1917

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Kentucky (Mr. Paul) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1917, a bill to reform sentencing laws and 
correctional institutions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1988

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1988, a bill to streamline 
broadband infrastructure permitting on established public rights-of-
way, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2085

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2085, a bill to amend the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 to streamline application processes and reduce 
the administrative burden for the commodity supplemental food program, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current law 
regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2244

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2244, a bill to 
create opportunities for women in the aviation industry.


                                S. 2278

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, a bill to amend 
the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to improve health care 
in rural areas.


                                S. 2343

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2343, a bill to require 
the Federal Communications Commission to establish a task force for 
meeting the connectivity and technology needs of precision agriculture 
in the United States.


                                S. 2374

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2374, a bill to amend the Improper 
Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012, including 
making changes to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for improved detection, 
prevention, and recovery of improper payments to deceased individuals, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2387

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2387, a bill to provide 
better care and outcomes for Americans living with Alzheimer's disease 
and related dementias and their caregivers while accelerating progress 
toward prevention strategies, disease modifying treatments, and, 
ultimately, a cure.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2421, a bill to amend the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 to provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and 
penalties for releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at 
farms.


                                S. 2495

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Tennessee

[[Page S1846]]

(Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2495, a bill to reauthorize the grant program 
for school security in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968.


                                S. 2497

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly), the 
Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. 
Duckworth) were added as cosponsors of S. 2497, a bill to amend the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act to make 
improvements to certain defense and security assistance provisions and 
to authorize the appropriations of funds to Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2500

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2500, a bill to award a Congressional Gold 
Medal, collectively, to the women in the United States who joined the 
workforce during World War II, providing the vehicles, weaponry, and 
ammunition to win the war, that were referred to as ``Rosie the 
Riveter'', in recognition of their contributions to the United States 
and the inspiration they have provided to ensuing generations.


                                S. 2502

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio), the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander), the Senator 
from Indiana (Mr. Young) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. 
Scott) were added as cosponsors of S. 2502, a bill to address gun 
violence, improve the availability of records to the National Instant 
Criminal Background Check System, address mental illness in the 
criminal justice system, and end straw purchases and trafficking of 
illegal firearms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2515

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2515, a bill to amend the 
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act to provide 
further self-governance by Indian Tribes, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2563

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2563, a bill to improve the water 
supply and drought resilience of the United States, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2565

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2565, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to require the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to provide child care assistance to veterans receiving 
certain training or vocational rehabilitation, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 54, a joint resolution to direct the removal of 
United States Armed Forces from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen 
that have not been authorized by Congress.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent 
resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 61

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 61, a resolution calling on the Department of Defense, other 
elements of the Federal Government, and foreign governments to 
intensify efforts to investigate, recover, and identify all missing and 
unaccounted-for personnel of the United States.


                              S. RES. 224

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 224, a resolution 
recognizing the 5th anniversary of the death of Oswaldo Paya Sardinas, 
and commemorating his legacy and commitment to democratic values and 
principles.


                              S. RES. 376

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 376, a resolution 
urging the Governments of Burma and Bangladesh to ensure the safe, 
dignified, voluntary, and sustainable return of the Rohingya refugees 
who have been displaced by the campaign of ethnic cleansing conducted 
by the Burmese military.


                              S. RES. 407

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) 
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 407, a resolution recognizing the 
critical work of human rights defenders in promoting human rights, the 
rule of law, democracy, and good governance.


                              S. RES. 432

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the names of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 432, a resolution congratulating the Baltic 
states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania on the 100th anniversary of 
their declarations of independence.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 2213

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 2213 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 1865, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
to clarify that section 230 of such Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sexual 
exploitation of children or sex trafficking, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



