

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S651]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 2377. A bill to designate the Federal building and 
     United States courthouse located at 200 West 2nd Street in 
     Dayton, Ohio, as the ``Walter H. Rice Federal Building and 
     United States Courthouse''; to the Committee on Environment 
     and Public Works.
           By Mr. ROUNDS:
       S. 2378. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide an exclusion from gross income for interest on 
     certain small business loans; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mrs. 
             Murray):
       S. 2379. A bill to improve and expand authorities, 
     programs, services, and benefits for military spouses and 
     military families, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 2380. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act with respect to aliens associated with criminal gangs, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Daines, Mr. Gardner, 
             and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 2381. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Transportation to require that 
     broadband conduits be installed as a part of certain highway 
     construction projects, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr. King):
       S. 2382. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for requirements relating to the reassignment of 
     Department of Veterans Affairs senior executive employees, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Graham, and 
             Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 2383. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     improve law enforcement access to data stored across borders, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Tillis, 
             Mr. Graham, Mr. Brown, Mr. Coons, Mr. Cardin, Mr. 
             Kaine, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 2384. A bill to amend the National Agricultural 
     Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to make 
     funding available to 1890 institutions without fiscal year 
     limitation; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Ms. Harris, Mr. Gardner, 
             Mr. Sullivan, and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 2385. A bill to establish best practices for State, 
     tribal, and local governments participating in the Integrated 
     Public Alert and Warning System, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Manchin, and Mrs. 
             Ernst):
       S. 2386. A bill to provide additional protections for our 
     veterans; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



