

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1431-H1434]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         THE DREAM WILL SURVIVE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee). Under the 
Speaker's announced policy of January 3, 2017, the Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Soto) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, tonight, I rise for the 92,000 Dreamers in the 
State of Florida. Tonight, I rise for the 3.6 million Dreamers across 
this Nation.
  President Trump may have terminated the DACA program this week, but 
the dream will survive.
  These Dreamers are serving in our military. They are our teachers. 
They are students and businessowners, lawyers, doctors, and engineers. 
They are an ambitious group of young people who are renewing our 
democracy and who are some of the very best of what the next generation 
has to offer.
  I have no doubt, despite this termination this week, these young 
people will continue to fight, and we in the Congressional Hispanic 
Caucus will stand with them. We in the Democratic Caucus will continue 
to stand with them.
  I hope some of my colleagues who have signed on to this bill in the 
Republican Conference will continue, but we need a vote on the floor.
  Seventy percent of Americans already stand with our Dreamers.
  It is true that the Federal courts this week have continued with 
their injunction enjoining the termination of the DACA program. This 
will help those who are already in the program, but that is a small 
fraction of the Dreamers in this country.
  It is a sad state of affairs that Dreamers could only find justice in 
our courts. This is the people's House, and the people's business needs 
to be done. It is time to have a vote on the floor in a bipartisan 
fashion--a clean Dream Act now, or in November the voters will have 
their own vote regarding Dreamers.


         Honoring Seretha Tinsley During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Seretha Tinsley.
  Seretha Tinsley is a Winter Haven resident, trailblazer, and 
overachiever. She was the first African-American female to attend and 
graduate from Wesleyan College, in 1971.
  In the early 1980s, Seretha became one of the first Black female 
general managers in radio.
  In 2008, she became the first African-American president of the 
Winter Haven Chamber of Commerce board of directors.
  She is an entrepreneur, civic leader, mother, and wife.
  Desiring to become a missionary, she took a trip to West Africa, 
visited six countries, and studied with educators. Consequently, she 
became an educator so that she could have a greater impact empowering 
young lives with knowledge.
  Tinsley served as executive director and cofounded Chain of Lakes 
Achievers, an achievement center devoted to empowering youth through 
tutoring, leadership, and life skills training. She maintains her 
passion for teaching by mentoring on a daily basis.
  She is a businesswoman who takes pride in assisting others in 
reaching their phenomenal potential. Tinsley is the CFO/owner of 
several family businesses, KFC, Tinsley Family Concessions, where she 
oversees administrative and fiduciary responsibilities.
  Seretha's community service and progressive leadership have earned 
her

[[Page H1432]]

numerous honors, recognitions, and media coverage.
  Seretha is involved with multiple organizations in the community. She 
is a Winter Haven Chamber of Commerce business member; First Missionary 
Baptist Church trustee; life member of the NAACP; Polk Academies 
Advisory Board; Winter Haven Chamber; past president of the National 
Coalition of 100 Black Women, Polk County Chapter; among many other 
accomplishments.
  Seretha Tinsley, we honor you.


           Honoring Lisa Landers During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Lisa Landers.
  Lisa Landers has served in the executive director position of the 
Winter Haven Housing Authority since 2009. She leads in the overall 
operations of the agency's public housing Section 8, low-income tax 
credit, and multifamily housing programs.
  Known for her tenacious spirit, Lisa has been recognized for 
successfully transforming a once nonperforming troubled agency into one 
now competitively recognized by Florida housing officials.
  Prior to joining the WHHA in 2004 as a volunteer, Lisa championed 
research on infant mortality and neonatology for the late Florida 
Governor Lawton Chiles and wife, Rhea Chiles, at their Center for 
Healthy Mothers and Babies at the University of South Florida in Tampa.
  Ms. Landers is also an award-winning journalist for The Tampa 
Tribune.
  Her career includes leadership as director of public relations for 
The Spring of Tampa Bay, one of Florida's largest domestic violence 
centers.
  A graduate of Florida A&M University with a B.S. in journalism, Ms. 
Landers has also pursued advanced studies in public administration at 
USF and holds the distinguished Executive Director's Education 
Certification from Rutgers University's Center for Government Studies.
  Among her board and outside interests, Ms. Landers is a member of the 
Winter Haven Leadership Class of 35, currently serves as the Florida 
State public relations representative for the Florida Association of 
Housing and Redevelopment Officials and its Southeastern Regional 
Council, and is currently a member of the Leadership Polk Class XI.
  Lisa Landers, we honor you.


          Honoring Twanna Dewdney During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Twanna Dewdney.
  Twanna Dewdney is a Winter Haven resident and proprietor of Salon 
Ashanti. She has proudly operated her salon in Winter Haven for over 13 
years and considers it a vital resource to the community.
  As a community activist, Twanna advocates for HIV and AIDS education 
and prevention. Her salon is an HIV testing site for the Polk County 
Health Department.
  Salon Ashanti also serves as a location for voter outreach, 
registration, and school supply drives. Children within the 
neighborhood utilize Salon Ashanti as a place of refuge, and she prides 
herself as a mentor to young women.
  Her ministry extends beyond her local community, as she also 
organizes toiletry drives for women's and men's prison ministries.
  Twanna began Project Park Bench as a drive where warm items and food 
could be brought to the salon for donations to the homeless. Items are 
then donated to the Mission of Winter Haven.
  Further, she also uses her salon to promote other entrepreneurs.
  In 2010, Twanna received the Community Service Award from the Jewett 
Alumni Association and the Bringing Your Business Back Award from the 
NAACP.
  In 2011, she received her associate of arts degree from Polk State 
College and bachelor of applied science in supervision management in 
2013.
  Twanna is an usher, president of HIV/AIDS Ministry, and member of the 
Willing Workers Committee at Hurst Chapel AME Church.
  She was the 2014 recipient of Girls Inc. She Knows Where She's Going 
``George Jenkins'' Award.
  In 2015, Twanna received the Outstanding Entrepreneur's Self-
Determination Award, presented by presiding elder Jimmy Thompson and 
the Lakeland District African Methodist Episcopal Church.
  She also received the Shining Star Award for outstanding ministry and 
community service and was the recipient of the Minerva Achievement 
Award from the Lakeland Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc.
  Twanna Dewdney, we honor you.


           Honoring Glenda Jones During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Glenda Jones.
  It has been said that humility is often found in those who serve 
others. Glenda Jones best personifies that statement.
  For 45 years, Glenda has and continues to champion the elderly by 
seeking to empower them with knowledge, skill, and resources through 
the Winter Haven Neighborhood Service Center Inc.
  As a registered nurse, she provides care and compassion for her 
community through civic engagement. Glenda actively serves her 
community and has been recognized for her participation with a number 
of organizations in our community.
  Glenda won Woman of the Year, the highest honor in Winter Haven, in 
the 2008 Banker's Cup. She is involved with St. Joseph's school board, 
the Keep Winter Haven Clean and Beautiful organization, a charter 
member of the East Central Democratic Club, secretary for the Polk 
County Democratic Black Caucus, and the United Way of Central Florida 
board of directors.
  She is also a current member of the Agricultural and Labor Program 
board of directors, PRIDE of Polk County, the Women's Club of Winter 
Haven, Silver Life member of the NAACP, and chair of the Winter Haven 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Commemorative Commission as well.
  Glenda has been an official sponsor of the Winter Haven MLK Parade 
and other activities during King Week. She is current chair of the 
Florence Villa CRA in the city of Winter Haven and a past recipient of 
the Winter Haven Girls, Inc., She Knows Where She's Going Award.
  Glenda Jones, we honor you.

                              {time}  1815


          Honoring Lakecia Gunter During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Lakecia Gunter.
  Lakecia Gunter is a Haines City native. She is currently Intel's 
chief of staff and technical assistant of Intel. Prior to her current 
role, she was the general manager of the consumer desktop segment 
marketing team in the client computing group, where she was responsible 
for maximizing desktop profitability to grow the desktop P&L.
  She is an active member of the Intel Black Leadership Council, 
Intel's network of Intel African Americans, and Women at Intel.
  Lakecia started from humble beginnings, growing up in a single-parent 
household. Her late mom, Barbara Griffin, always described her as a 
curious child. She is a trailblazer who has never been afraid to be the 
only one.
  ``If they let me in the door, I'm going to make the entrance wider,'' 
she says. And she does just that by sharing her time and talents with 
several nonprofits focused on improving educational outcomes for high 
school dropouts and underprepared college students. In her mentoring, 
she tries to impress upon kids that challenges are designed to help 
them grow.
  Lakecia earned an MS in electrical engineering from the Georgia 
Institute of Technology and a bachelor of science degree in computer 
engineering from the University of South Florida. She also earned her 
project management professional certification.
  Her efforts in the engineering career field and the community have 
garnered her national recognition. She recently was named to Business 
Insider's list of the 26 most powerful female engineers in 2016. She 
was the recipient of the Society of Women Engineers' Prism Award for 
demonstrating outstanding career technology leadership as well as 
leadership in STEM and in the community.
  Further, she was named to Diversity MBA Magazine's 2014 list of top 
100

[[Page H1433]]

under 50 diverse executive leaders for her technology leadership and 
achievements at Intel and in the community.
  For that, Lakecia Gunter, we honor you.


           Honoring Gloria Niec During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Gloria Niec. Ms. Niec is the executive director of the 
Celebration Foundation and has tackled serious issues affecting Osceola 
County.
  In 2012, the Celebration Foundation led the effort to increase 
awareness of those experiencing hunger in the county by creating 
Osceola Connected. The group became very involved in combating 
childhood hunger. Today, Osceola Connected provides food to over 1,000 
Osceola County elementary students every week during the school year.
  While handing out bags of food or taking children to summer camp, 
Gloria learned that many graduating seniors had no postsecondary plans. 
Once she learned that most students had never even visited a college 
campus before, Gloria and her committee began sponsoring campus tours 
of Technical Education Center Osceola and Valencia College Osceola 
Campus. The first year, just over 100 students toured the campuses. 
Since then, over 6,000 students have toured the campuses, which have 
helped improve the county's college-going rate.
  Education is one of the cornerstones of Celebration Foundation's 
mission ``to work hand in hand with our neighbors to build a strong and 
caring central Florida community.''
  Gloria was concerned about the effect of media on girls and young 
women. She convened a group of talented women, and they formed WINGS, 
Women's Initiative Nurturing Girls' Strength. The goal is to help girls 
and women create powerful life journeys.
  Gloria also gathered a group of architects and urban planners who are 
committed to preserving, protecting, and advancing the principles upon 
which Celebration was based. They teach at Lifelong Learning, lead 
tours, and sponsor an annual speaker.
  The Concert Series, in its 16th year, is enjoying robust attendance 
and sponsorship. Gloria has helped to grow the series, which offers a 
cultural opportunity for residents in Celebration, Osceola County, and 
central Florida. She has also been involved with Thriving in Place and 
Lifelong Learning, programs that enable seniors to live healthy, safe, 
independent, and have enriched lives.
  And for that, Gloria Niec, we honor you.


          Honoring Heather Wilkie During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Heather Wilkie.
  Heather Wilkie is the executive director of the Zebra Coalition, a 
network of community organizations which provide services to lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, transgender, and all youth. Following the tragic Pulse 
nightclub shooting, the Zebra Coalition evolved as a leading 
organization in the community's provision of services to victims and 
their families, and Wilkie continues to lead these efforts to ensure 
the LGBTQ-plus youth in central Florida have a safe space to turn.
  Wilkie serves on the task force for the LGBTQ Alliance, a group of 
appointed LGBTQ organizations and community leaders formed to address 
our community's needs as a result of the Pulse shooting.
  She is an experienced executive leader in the nonprofit sector with 
over 13 years of personal commitment and dedication to community 
service. A dynamic and energetic advocate for global change and 
equality, Wilkie contributes a strong passion for social justice.
  Prior to joining the Zebra Coalition, Wilkie served as chief 
operating officer for the leading central Florida domestic violence 
organization Harbor House. During that time, she chaired the LGBTQ 
Caucus with the Coalition Against Domestic Violence, where she led the 
statewide initiative to enhance services for LGBTQ survivors of abuse.

  Wilkie holds a master's degree in mental health counseling from 
Rollins College.
  And for that, we honor you, Heather Wilkie.


           Honoring Mary Downey During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Mary Downey.
  Reverend Mary Lee Downey is the executive director and founder of the 
nonprofit Community Hope Center. The Community Hope Center is a one-
stop shop providing services to the homeless and disenfranchised in 
Osceola County. In 2016, the Community Hope Center was awarded the 
prestigious Bank of America Neighborhood Builders Award and, in 2015, 
the Bob Allen Award by Walt Disney World for innovative approaches to 
helping the homeless in the community.
  In the last five years, the Community Hope Center has served over 
25,000 individuals in the central Florida area. The Center focuses on a 
``housing first'' model of care while also including a strong position 
regarding poverty alleviation.
  Reverend Downey is a deacon in the United Methodist Church for the 
Florida Annual Conference. Her focus is on missional outreach through 
social justice in the nonprofit organizations. She is also a clergy at 
the Spring of Life United Methodist Church.
  Previously, Mary served as the deputy director of Helping Others Make 
the Effort, HOME, a nonprofit committed to ending homelessness in 
Osceola County. She was also the program and evangelism director for 
the First United Methodist Church of Kissimmee, where she focused on 
spiritual formation, outreach, and missions.
  Before moving to central Florida, Mary was a journalist. In 2004, 
Mary graduated cum laude from Henderson State University in Arkansas 
with a bachelor of art in mass media. In 2016, she graduated from 
Henderson State with a master of art in art history and liberal arts. 
In 2012, Mary graduated with a master of Christian leadership with an 
emphasis in missions from Asbury Theological Seminary.
  Mary and her amazing husband, Martin, have three children. She enjoys 
writing, preaching, and reading. In her free time, you can find her and 
her family enjoying the theme parks in central Florida.
  And for that, Mary Downey, we honor you.


           Honoring Sheri Morton During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Sheri Morton.
  For over half a century, Sheri Morton has volunteered for progressive 
causes. From the peace, civil rights, and women's movements in the 
1960s to voting, equal rights, and quality affordable healthcare, Ms. 
Morton has volunteered tens of thousands of hours to help improve the 
quality of life for people in our community, our country, and our 
world.
  Ms. Morton began volunteering as a teenager and continued doing so 
during her undergraduate years, when she was the first woman from her 
high school to attend Harvard College. She earned a master's degree at 
Harvard Graduate School of Education, where she later worked.
  After receiving her JD, she became an attorney and is now retired.
  Sheri has held numerous volunteer political positions as well as 
served on the Osceola County Library Advisory Board.
  A lifelong supporter of quality affordable healthcare for all 
Americans, she was a local volunteer spokesperson, encouraging 
enrollment in the Affordable Care Act health insurance exchanges.
  Ms. Morton's volunteer work has ranged from teaching English to 
immigrants and tutoring a blind student in high school math to 
collecting food for Appalachia's needy and warm clothes for the 
homeless. Currently, she regularly volunteers hosting Jewish cultural 
events for the residents of a local assisted living facility.
  After half a century of volunteering, Ms. Morton's dedication to 
improving the lives of others continues unabated.
  And for that, Sheri Morton, we honor you.


         Honoring Kathleen Plinske During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Kathleen Plinske.
  Kathleen Plinske serves as campus president of the Osceola, Lake 
Nona, and Poinciana campuses at Valencia College in Orlando, Florida, 
and in central Florida. She has served as an advocate for increasing 
access to higher

[[Page H1434]]

education in historically underserved communities and has been 
instrumental in Osceola County's ``Got College?'' efforts, which have 
resulted in an increase in the community college's going rate by more 
than 20 percent over the last 5 years.
  Prior to joining Valencia in 2010, Plinske began her career at 
McHenry County College, rising up to ultimately becoming interim 
president of institutional effectiveness. A graduate of Illinois 
Mathematics and Science Academy, Plinske attended Indiana University 
Bloomington as a Herman B. Wells scholar, earning a bachelor of arts in 
Spanish and physics with highest distinction and honors. A member of 
Phi Beta Kappa, she completed a master of arts in Spanish from 
Roosevelt University, a doctorate in education technology from 
Pepperdine University, and a master of business administration from the 
University of Florida.
  Actively involved in her community, Plinske has served as a board 
chair of the Education Foundation of Osceola County and as president of 
the Rotary Club of Lake Nona. She has also served on the board of 
CareerSource Central Florida, the Osceola Center for the Arts, Junior 
Achievement of Osceola County, and the Lake Nona Education Council.
  In 2010, Plinske was recognized as one of 24 emerging leaders in the 
world by Phi Delta Kappa. In 2012, she was named Woman of the Year by 
Orlando Business Journal in its 40 Under 40 competition and the 
Outstanding Young Alumna by Indiana University.

  In 2014, she received the Compadre Award from the Hispanic Business 
Council of the Kissimmee/Osceola Chamber of Commerce and the Don 
Quijote Hispanic Community Champion Award from the Hispanic Chamber of 
Commerce of Metro Orlando.
  Plinske was selected as an Aspen Presidential Fellow in 2016 and was 
named Pepperdine University's Distinguished Alumna in 2017.
  And for that, Kathleen Plinske, we honor you.


           Honoring Kathy Wandel During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of Women's History Month, I would 
like to honor Kathy Wandel.
  Kathy Wandel comes from a career in transportation, which focused on 
sales, operations, and training. Upon her retirement, she and her 
husband relocated from Texas to central Florida.
  She served on the board of directors for the Senior Resource 
Alliance, the Area Agency on Aging for Central Florida, representing 
Osceola County, and was board chair for three years. She also delivered 
Meals on Wheels for the Osceola County Council on Aging.

                              {time}  1830

  She became a volunteer guardian ad litem, helping to provide a 
powerful voice in court on behalf of Florida's abused, neglected, and 
abandoned children in 2003.
  She was soon invited to join the local nonprofit for the Guardian Ad 
Litem Program in Osceola County, Voices for Osceola's Children, where 
she is serving as board chair. This nonprofit supports the efforts of 
over 200 certified local volunteer GALs, as well as provides for the 
unmet needs of over 500 local children while they are under the 
supervision of the court dependency system.
  She is a longtime member of Rotary International's Kissimmee West 
Rotary Club in Osceola County. She plans on continuing to support her 
club's fundraising efforts through local causes, including the Adopt-A-
Precinct program for the Osceola County Supervision of Elections.
  She finds the Rotary ideal of ``Service Above Self'' a wonderful way 
to meet new people who share the ideal and work to give back to the 
community.
  For that, Kathy Wandel, we honor you.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



