

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S152-S153]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 THOMASINA E. JORDAN INDIAN TRIBES OF VIRGINIA FEDERAL RECOGNITION ACT 
                                OF 2017

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise today on a happy occasion, to 
discuss a House bill, H.R. 984, the Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes 
of Virginia Federal Recognition Act. This is a bill with a long 
history, and we are joined in the Chamber by the chiefs of six Virginia 
Tribes whose past, present, and certainly future are connected to this 
bill. I will speak briefly. Then, Senator Warner will speak. Then, the 
matter will be called up for a voice vote. Various objections have been 
heard and then cleared, and so we are now ready to move forward with 
this bill, which passed the House in May.
  This is about Virginia Tribes that were here and encountered the 
English when they arrived at Georgetown in 1607--the Tribes of 
Pocahontas and so many other wonderful Virginians. They are living, 
breathing, active Tribes. They have never been recognized by the 
Federal Government for a series of reasons.
  First, they made peace too soon, in a way, and they have been 
punished for that. They entered into peace treaties with the English in 
the 1670s.
  Second, many of their Tribal records were destroyed in the Civil War. 
Third, a State official destroyed other records during the 1920s 
through 1960s. The power of these Tribes having achieved State 
recognition beginning many years ago--and they have never given up hope 
that they would be recognized by the U.S. Government, just as they have 
been recognized for hundreds of years by the Government of England. In 
fact, last spring, they went to England to celebrate the 400th 
anniversary of the death of Pocahontas. They were treated as 
sovereigns, treated with respect, and all they have asked is to be 
given the same treatment by the country they love.
  This bill for Tribal recognition was first introduced by a Virginia 
Governor, then-Senator George Allen, in the 107th Congress. A House 
companion bill to the Senate version was passed in May, and that is the 
third time the House has passed this bill--first in 2007, and the 
second time was in 2009.
  I have had many productive discussions, as has Senator Warner, over 
the last months about the bill, various questions about the history. We 
are now in a position where all objections have been cleared, and we 
are ready to move ahead.
  It is such a treat to be joined by the chiefs. It is such a treat to 
be joined by my colleague, my senior Senator. Senator Warner has worked 
tremendously hard on this, as have I, from the day he was Governor. I 
also have to give praise to Congressman Wittman on the House side, who 
has worked very hard to get to this day.
  It is a fundamental issue of respect and fairly acknowledging a 
historical record and a wonderful story of Tribes who are living, 
thriving, and surviving and are a rich part of our heritage. This is a 
happy day to stand upon their behalf.
  With that, I wish to yield to the senior Senator.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Virginia.
  Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, let me join my friend and colleague 
Senator Kaine. We and some of the folks who are in the Gallery today 
were not sure if this day would ever come. Even in the U.S. Congress 
and the U.S. Senate, occasionally we get things right. And, boy oh boy, 
this is a day where we get things right on a civil rights basis, on a 
moral basis, and on a fairness basis.
  To our friends who are representatives of some of the six Tribes who 
are finally going to be granted Federal recognition, we thank you for 
your patience, your perseverance, and your willingness to work with us 
and others.
  This has become an issue over the last 20-plus years. Democrats and 
Republicans alike in Virginia have acknowledged the fact that these six 
Tribes, whose history predates any European settlement in this country, 
whose history goes back, as Senator Kaine mentioned, where they were 
recognized by the United Kingdom and recognized by the British 
Government when they controlled our country--but through a series of 
circumstances, in many cases abetted by a backwards-looking government 
earlier in the 20th

[[Page S153]]

century in Virginia that discriminated against these Native Americans 
in ways that were outrageous, where in many ways records that told of 
their proud history in our Commonwealth were destroyed after the Civil 
War in fires and courthouses--these Tribes have persevered.
  Today, finally, they are going to be granted Federal recognition and 
the respect that goes with that Federal recognition, and they will be 
granted certain additional opportunities in terms of special education, 
housing grants, affordable healthcare services, and most importantly, 
the ability to recover important artifacts in their history.
  As has been mentioned, this bill has already passed the House. Rob 
Wittman, a Republican Member, has been a champion.
  Senator Kaine and I, both as Governors--in that role of Governor, one 
of the things that happen every day--every Thanksgiving day, these 
Tribes come in and, in effect, pay their taxes to the Commonwealth of 
Virginia. While Virginia has recognized these Tribes for some time, 
every year when we would have this ceremony--one of the most moving 
ceremonies that I know I have participated in as Governor, and I think 
Senator Kaine and Senator Allen, who was also a champion on this issue 
before us--these Tribes would come in and say: When will the U.S. 
Government recognize our existence, our history, and our legacy? Well, 
that wait is finally over.
  In a moment, I am going to be asking for unanimous consent, and the 
long, long wait will come to an end.
  As in legislative session, I ask unanimous consent that the Indian 
Affairs Committee be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 984 
and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the bill by title.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (H.R. 984) to extend Federal recognition to the 
     Chickahominy Indian Tribe, the Chickahominy Indian Tribe--
     Eastern Division, the Upper Mattaponi Tribe, the Rappahannock 
     Tribe, Inc., the Monacan Indian Nation, and the Nansemond 
     Indian Tribe.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill.
  The bill was ordered to a third reading and was read the third time.
  Mr. WARNER. I know of no further debate on the measure.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there further debate?
  If not, the bill having been read the third time, the question is, 
Shall the bill pass?
  The bill (H.R. 984) was passed.
  Mr. WARNER. I further ask unanimous consent that the motion to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no 
intervening action or debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



