

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S348]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 14

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 14, a bill to provide that 
Members of Congress may not receive pay after October 1 of any fiscal 
year in which Congress has not approved a concurrent resolution on the 
budget and passed the regular appropriations bills.


                                 S. 299

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 299, a bill to require the 
appropriation of funds to use a fee, fine, penalty, or proceeds from a 
settlement received by a Federal agency, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 792

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 792, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to establish an H-2B temporary non-
agricultural work visa program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 915, a bill to amend title 
II of the Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension offset 
and windfall elimination provisions.


                                 S. 918

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 918, a bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
provide for automatic continuing resolutions.


                                S. 1168

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1168, a bill to facilitate 
efficient investments and financing of infrastructure projects and new, 
long-term job creation through the establishment of an Infrastructure 
Financing Authority, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1218

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1218, a bill to promote 
Federal employment for veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1304

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1304, a bill to 
amend part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act to exclude 
customary prompt pay discounts from manufacturers to wholesalers from 
the average sales price for drugs and biologicals under Medicare, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1676

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1676, a bill 
to amend the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 to provide grants for 
access to broadband telecommunications services in rural areas, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1719

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1719, a bill to eliminate 
duties on imports of recreational performance outerwear, to establish 
the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1809

  At the request of Ms. Cortez Masto, the name of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1809, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of Transportation to establish the Strengthening 
Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Challenge Grant 
Program to promote technological innovation in our Nation's cities.


                                S. 2114

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2114, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to the 5307th Composite Unit (Provisional), 
commonly known as ``Merrill's Marauders'', in recognition of their 
bravery and outstanding service in the jungles of Burma during World 
War II.


                                S. 2173

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2173, a bill to amend subpart 2 
of part B of title IV of the Social Security Act to extend State court 
funding for child welfare, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2208

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2208, a bill to provide for 
the issuance of an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal Stamp.


                                S. 2235

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2235, a bill to establish a 
tiered hiring preference for members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces.


                                S. 2274

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth), the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and the 
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2274, a bill to provide for the compensation of Federal employees 
affected by lapses in appropriations.


                              S. RES. 367

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 367, a resolution condemning the Government of 
Iran for its violence against demonstrators and calling for peaceful 
resolution to the concerns of the citizens of Iran.

                          ____________________



