

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1448]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF MARVIN R. EDWARDS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Rutherford) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the life of 
Mr. Marvin R. Edwards, who was a veteran, a hero, and a predominant 
member of the Jacksonville community.
  Mr. Edwards served his country during World War II flying missions 
with the Office of Strategic Services, which was the precursor of the 
CIA. He often flew into enemy territory, collecting information that 
changed the course of the war. For his bravery with the OSS, Mr. 
Edwards was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal in 2016.
  Following the war, he returned to Jacksonville, where he became an 
economist and a fixture in our community, starting organizations such 
as the Economic Roundtable of Jacksonville, which brings together 
businesses and community leaders to discuss economic trends.
  In addition to his passion for business and economics, Mr. Edwards 
was a champion of public schools and fought for accountability in local 
and State governments. He was active in the community and never shy 
about sharing his opinion on major projects in Jacksonville.

  Mr. Edwards passed away at 96 years of age. He is survived by his 
wife, Helene Edwards; and his children, Jeffrey, Douglas, and Carolyn.
  On behalf of a thankful city and country, I stand today to thank Mr. 
Edwards for his years of dedication to his community and public 
service.


         Congratulating Petty Officer 1st Class Genesis Mariano

  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and congratulate 
Petty Officer 1st Class Genesis Mariano for being named the 2017 Sea 
and Shore Sailor of the Year.
  Growing up, Petty Officer Mariano's father served in the Navy until 
1994, when he retired as a chief petty officer. Genesis credits his 
father's service as the source of his inspiration for joining the Navy.
  After his father's retirement, Mariano's family continued to reside 
in Jacksonville, where he attended school at Florida State College, 
pursuing his associate's degree until he joined the Navy in 2004, 
following in his father's footsteps.
  He went to boot camp in April of 2004, and upon completion, went to 
Field Medical Service School in Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.
  He worked at duty stations all over the world and is now the medical 
leading petty officer for Expeditionary Warfare Training Group Pacific.
  He aspires to make chief petty officer and to eventually become a 
master chief.
  When asked about him, Mariano's commanding officers have only the 
highest regard for him. They speak of his integrity and his loyalty to 
his fellow soldiers and sailors, as well as his exceptional medical 
program expertise.
  One of Mariano's primary goals is to have an impact on all the 
sailors and marines he encounters. He wants to provide them with the 
same mentorship and leadership that he was shown during his early years 
in the Navy.
  Outside of his service, Mariano is actively pursuing his bachelor's 
of science in healthcare administration from Kaplan University. He 
currently maintains a 4.0 GPA and plans to receive his master's degree.
  So today, Mr. Speaker, I salute Petty Officer 1st Class Genesis 
Mariano for being named Sea and Shore Sailor of the Year. He 
exemplifies the Navy's core values in every aspect of his life, and I 
admire Petty Officer Mariano's commitment to the military and our 
Nation. I congratulate him on receiving this honor and I thank him for 
his service.

                          ____________________



