

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 22 (Monday, February 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S604-S605]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       TRIBUTE TO WILLIAM U. HILL

 Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Wyoming 
Supreme Court Justice William U. Hill.
  After serving over 19 years on the judicial bench, Justice Hill is 
retiring from the Wyoming Supreme Court on February 16, 2018. As an 
outstanding jurist and public servant, he dedicated his life to serving 
the people of Wyoming. Justice Hill's wisdom and unwavering dedication 
to the law has had a tremendous impact on our State.
  Justice Hill has deep roots in Wyoming. He was raised in Riverton, 
WY. In 1970, he earned his B.A. in English from the University of 
Wyoming. Justice Hill graduated from the University of Wyoming College 
of Law in 1974. Throughout his successful career, he held several 
important positions in the government. He was an Assistant U.S. 
Attorney, an assistant attorney general for Wyoming, and attorney 
general for Wyoming. In addition, he worked as the chief of staff and 
chief counsel in Washington, DC, for U.S. Senator Malcolm Wallop. 
Justice Hill also worked in private practice in Cheyenne, WY; Riverton, 
WY; and Seattle, WA.
  On November 3, 1998, Wyoming Governor Jim Geringer appointed Justice 
Hill to the Wyoming Supreme Court. He was elected as the 44th chief 
justice of the Wyoming Supreme Court in 2002. During his 4 years as 
chief justice, he oversaw the administrative responsibilities of the 
Wyoming court system, as well as ran the scheduling, case assignments, 
and court proceedings. Justice Hill also served as chairman of the 
judicial nominating commission and chairman of the board of judicial 
policy and administration. He demonstrated great leadership and 
distinction in each of these significant roles.
  Supreme Court Justices can have a lasting impact on a State and its 
future. Justice Hill leaves a legacy of consistency and fidelity to the 
law. He always strived to uphold justice and ensure a fair judgment in 
every case.

[[Page S605]]

His decisions and opinions show respect for due process and strict 
adherence to the law. Justice Hill is a mentor and inspiration to 
Wyoming's legal community. He enjoys sharing his experiences and his 
passion for the legal profession with students and individuals just 
entering the legal field.
  Justice Hill earned a reputation for being a hard worker and a 
thorough decisionmaker. Anyone fortunate enough to work with him speaks 
highly of his character and his drive. He respects the rule of law and 
our foundational legal principles. Justice Hill has consistently shown 
his commitment to justice and upholding the Constitution.
  He has also been a recipient of several prestigious honors throughout 
his successful career. In 2017, he received the Larry L. Lehman Award 
for Judicial Excellence presented by the Wyoming State Bar. The award 
is named in honor of Justice Lehman for his efforts to improve the 
operation of the Wyoming court system and to provide greater access to 
justice for all Wyoming citizens. Justice Hill was also inducted as an 
honorary member of the University of Wyoming's Order of the Coif in 
2011.
  Justice Hill is married to Mary Kay Hill, and they have two children: 
Brian and Erin. Their son Brian Hill is married to Molly Hill. Their 
daughter Erin is married to Chase Rutherford. Mary Kay Hill worked for 
U.S. Senator Al Simpson in Washington, DC, for 10 years before 
returning to Wyoming as a policy adviser for former Governor Geringer 
and current Governor Mead.
  The law plays such a major role in Justice Hill's life that he even 
plays guitar in a band called The Law North of Crow Creek. He is a man 
of many talents and can captivate a room with his stories. He leaves a 
lasting mark on everyone he meets.
  Retirement opens the door to a new world of adventure and happiness. 
Justice Hill will continue to inspire and touch the lives of the people 
of Wyoming for years to come.
  It is a great honor to recognize this exceptional member of our 
Wyoming community. My wife, Bobbi, joins me in extending our gratitude 
and well wishes to Justice Hill on his retirement.

                          ____________________



