

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1338]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       S. 2490. A bill to amend the Real Estate Settlement 
     Procedures Act of 1974 to modify requirements related to 
     mortgage disclosures; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 2491. A bill to permit voluntary economic activity; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Nelson, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Graham, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, Ms. Collins, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 2492. A bill to provide for the reporting to State and 
     local law enforcement authorities of cases in which the 
     national instant criminal background check system indicates 
     that a firearm has been sought to be acquired by a prohibited 
     person, so that authorities may pursue criminal charges under 
     State law, and to ensure that the Department of Justice 
     reports to Congress on prosecutions secured against 
     prohibited persons who attempt to acquire a firearm; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 2493. A bill to clarify the congressional intent behind 
     the requirements relating to immediate suspension orders and 
     corrective action plans under the Controlled Substances Act 
     that were added by the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective 
     Drug Enforcement Act of 2016; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Cardin, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Smith, Mr. 
             Kaine, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Warren, Ms. Harris, Mr. 
             Sanders, Ms. Hassan, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Stabenow, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 2494. A bill to provide standards for short-term limited 
     duration health insurance policies; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Rubio, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Grassley, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
             Heller, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Cassidy, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. 
             Capito, Mr. Brown, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Udall, Mrs. 
             Ernst, Mr. Jones, Ms. Collins, Mr. King, Mr. Young, 
             Ms. Smith, Mr. Daines, and Mr. Peters):
       S. 2495. A bill to reauthorize the grant program for school 
     security in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
     1968; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ENZI:
       S. 2496. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to establish Small Business Health Accounts; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 2497. A bill to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     and the Arms Export Control Act to make improvements to 
     certain defense and security assistance provisions and to 
     authorize the appropriations of funds to Israel, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Cassidy, 
             and Mr. Peters):
       S. 2498. A bill to reduce identity fraud; to the Committee 
     on Finance.

                          ____________________



