

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1348]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              LANCE CORPORAL JORDAN S. BASTEAN POST OFFICE

  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2673) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 514 Broadway Street in Pekin, Illinois, as the 
``Lance Corporal Jordan S. Bastean Post Office''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2673

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. LANCE CORPORAL JORDAN S. BASTEAN POST OFFICE.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 514 Broadway Street in Pekin, Illinois, 
     shall be known and designated as the ``Lance Corporal Jordan 
     S. Bastean Post Office''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Lance Corporal Jordan S. Bastean Post 
     Office''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Palmer) and the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.


                             General Leave

  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
to include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Alabama?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2673, introduced by the 
gentlewoman from Illinois (Mrs. Bustos).
  H.R. 2673 names the post office at 514 Broadway Street in Pekin, 
Illinois, after Lance Corporal Jordan S. Bastean. Lance Corporal Jordan 
S. Bastean enlisted in the United States Marine Corps after graduating 
high school. He deployed to the Helmand province of Afghanistan, where, 
on October 23, 2011, he gave his life in service of our country.
  H.R. 2673 pays tribute to Corporal Bastean's sacrifice. I urge my 
colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 2673, a bill to designate the facility of the U.S. Postal Service 
located at 514 Broadway Street in Pekin, Illinois, as the Lance 
Corporal Jordan S. Bastean Post Office.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to the gentlewoman 
from Illinois (Mrs. Bustos) to tell us more about Lance Corporal Jordan 
S. Bastean.
  Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from the great State of 
Missouri (Mr. Clay) for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, which would 
designate the post office in Pekin, Illinois, as the Lance Corporal 
Jordan S. Bastean Post Office.
  A 2010 graduate of Pekin Community High School, Jordan was a 4-year 
cadet in the Junior ROTC and was the captain of the air rifle team. As 
an avid hunter, an athlete, and a big fan of taking his dad's Jeep off-
roading, he was the very definition of what it means to be a 
Midwesterner.
  Just like a lot of young men and women from the heartland, Jordan 
believed in service, and he believed in being the best he could be. 
That is why he joined the Marines. And Lance Corporal Bastean's 
commitment to service was so infectious that his dad quit his job and 
followed him into the military.
  But on October 23, 2011, during his first deployment to Afghanistan, 
Lance Corporal Bastean made the ultimate sacrifice for our Nation in 
the Helmand province. Back home, Steve and Kathy Bastean lost their 
only child at the age of 19.
  Mr. Speaker, this Saturday, when his family releases balloons at his 
grave site to mark what would have been only his 26th birthday, I hope 
they know that a grateful Nation mourns with them.
  On behalf of the families of the 17th Congressional District of 
Illinois and from the entire United States, I want to offer my deepest 
condolences to the entire Bastean family, to all of Lance Corporal 
Bastean's friends, and to all of the brave men and women in uniform who 
fight for our freedom today.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. I urge the passage 
of H.R. 2673, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Palmer) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2673.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



