

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 33 (Friday, February 23, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 33 (Friday, February 23, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1226]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. HILL:
       H.R. 5078. A bill to amend the Real Estate Settlement 
     Procedures Act of 1974 to modify requirements related to 
     mortgage disclosures, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Katko, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, and 
             Mr. Gallagher):
       H.R. 5079. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require the Department of Homeland Security to 
     develop an engagement strategy with fusion centers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. HOLDING:
       H.R. 5080. A bill to amend title XVIII to provide for 
     coverage under the Medicare program of opioid treatment 
     program services; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mrs. Watson Coleman, and Mr. 
             McCaul):
       H.R. 5081. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish within the Transportation Security 
     Administration the Surface Transportation Security Advisory 
     Committee, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for himself and Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas):
       H.R. 5082. A bill to amend the Fair Debt Collection 
     Practices Act to exclude law firms and licensed attorneys who 
     are engaged in activities related to legal proceedings from 
     the definition of a debt collector, to amend the Consumer 
     Financial Protection Act of 2010 to prevent the Bureau of 
     Consumer Financial Protection from exercising supervisory or 
     enforcement authority with respect to attorneys when 
     undertaking certain actions related to legal proceedings, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. NEAL (for himself and Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 5083. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for coverage of certain services 
     furnished by opioid treatment programs under the Medicare 
     program; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself and Mr. Meadows):
       H.R. 5084. A bill to amend section 6906 of title 31, United 
     States Code, to provide funding for the payment in lieu of 
     taxes program for an additional five years, to provide a 
     five-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community 
     Self-Determination Act of 2000, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. McHENRY (for himself, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Hudson, 
             Mr. Budd, Mr. Rouzer, Ms. Adams, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, Mr. Walker, Ms. Foxx, Mr. 
             Holding, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Meadows):
       H. Con. Res. 107. Concurrent resolution authorizing 
     Reverend Billy Graham to lie in honor in the rotunda of the 
     Capitol; to the Committee on House Administration. considered 
     and agreed to.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Foster, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Brown of Maryland, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. 
             Lee, and Mr. Norcross):
       H. Res. 746. A resolution supporting the goal and ideal of 
     increasing the number of African American women and girls in 
     the engineering profession; to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.

                          ____________________



