

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H559-H560]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO OFFER RESOLUTION RAISING A QUESTION OF THE 
                        PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE

  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, pursuant to clause 2(a)(1) of 
rule IX, I rise to give notice of my intent to raise a question of the 
privileges of the House.
  The form of the resolution is as follows:
  Resolution, impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United 
States, of high misdemeanors.
    Resolved, that Donald John Trump, President of the United States, 
is unfit to be President, unfit to represent the American values of 
decency and morality, respectability and civility, honesty and 
propriety, reputability and integrity, is unfit to defend the ideals 
that have made America great, unfit to defend liberty and justice for 
all as extolled in the Pledge of Allegiance, is unfit to defend the 
American ideal of all persons being created equal as exalted in the 
Declaration of Independence, is unfit to ensure domestic tranquility, 
promote the general welfare and secure the blessings of liberty to 
ourselves and our posterity as lauded in the preamble to the United 
States Constitution, is unfit to protect government of the people, by 
the people, for the people as elucidated in the Gettysburg Address, and 
is impeached for high misdemeanors, and that the following Article of 
Impeachment be exhibited to the Senate:
  Article of Impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of 
the United States, in the name of itself and of the people of the 
United States, against Donald John Trump, President of the United 
States, in maintenance and support of its impeachment against him for 
high misdemeanors committed as President constituting harm to American 
society to the manifest injury of the people of the United States:
  Article I
  In his capacity as President of the United States, unmindful of the 
high duties of his high office, of the dignity and proprieties thereof, 
and of the harmony, and respect necessary for stability within the 
society of the United States, Donald John Trump has with his bigoted 
statements done more than simply insult individuals and groups of 
Americans, he has harmed the American society by attempting to convert 
his bigoted statements into United States policy and by associating the 
Presidency and the people of the United States with bigotry on one or 
more of the following occasions:
  On January 27, 2017, Donald John Trump issued Executive Order 13769 
providing for a partial shutdown of immigration from mainly Muslim 
countries to fulfill a bigoted campaign promise that read as follows: 
``DONALD J. TRUMP STATEMENT ON PREVENTING MUSLIM IMMIGRATION (New York, 
NY) December 7th, 2015--Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and 
complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our 
country's representatives can figure out what's going on,'' thereby 
attempting to convert a bigoted campaign promise into United States 
policy, associating the presidency and the people of the United States 
with bigotry, thereby casting contempt upon Muslims, inciting hate and 
hostility, and sowing discord among the people of the United States on 
the basis of religion.
  On July 26, 2017, Donald John Trump made a public statement 
substantially

[[Page H560]]

as follows: After consulting with my generals and military experts, 
please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or 
allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. 
military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming 
victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and 
disruption that transgender in the military would entail, thereby 
attempting to convert his bigoted statement into United States policy, 
associating the Presidency and the people of the United States with 
bigotry, thereby casting contempt on transgender individuals, inciting 
hate and hostility, and sowing discord among the people of the United 
States on the basis of gender.
  On August 15, 2017, Donald John Trump made a widely published 
statement characterizing a group of anti-Semites, bigots, racists, 
White nationalists, and Ku Klux Klansmen who rallied in 
Charlottesville, Virginia, as ``very fine people,'' thereby associating 
the Presidency and the people of the United States with bigotry.
  On October 7, 2017, hate groups returned to Charlottesville, 
Virginia, at the statue of Robert E. Lee, the Confederate general, 
chanting, ``You will not replace us!'' after having chanted in their 
August Charlottesville rally that ``Jews will not replace us!''. Since 
this event on October 7, the President has made widely published 
statements about many issues, including the National Football League, 
but has not made one widely published statement condemning the hate 
groups for returning to the place where an innocent person lost her 
life at the hands of hate.
  On January 11, 2018, Donald John Trump held a meeting with a 
bipartisan group of congressional leaders that focused primarily on 
legislation that would provide a statutory protected status for 
individuals brought to the United States without documentation. At this 
meeting, as has been widely published, Donald John Trump made 
references to people from s-h-i-t-h-o-l-e (or s-h-i-t-h-o-u-s-e) 
countries. He also questioned why we need more Haitians or people from 
African countries, proclaiming that we should take them out. Donald 
John Trump then suggested that Norwegians were better suited to be 
immigrants to this country, thereby casting contempt on citizens and 
noncitizens who were welcomed here by previous Presidents due to 
natural disaster and civil unrest, thereby attempting to convert his 
bigoted statements into United States policy, associating the 
Presidency and the people of the United States with bigotry, inciting 
hate and hostility, and sowing discord among the people of the United 
States on the basis of national origin.
  In all of this, the aforementioned Donald John Trump has, by his 
statements, brought the high office of President of the United States 
in contempt, ridicule, disgrace and disrepute, has sown discord among 
the people of the United States, has demonstrated that he is unfit to 
be President, and has betrayed his trust as President of the United 
States to the manifest injury of the people of the United States, and 
has committed a high misdemeanor in office.
  Therefore, Donald John Trump by causing such harm to the society of 
the United States is unfit to be President and warrants impeachment, 
trial, and removal from office.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under rule IX, a resolution offered from the 
floor by a Member other than the majority leader or the minority leader 
as a question of the privileges of the House has immediate precedence 
only at a time designated by the Chair within 2 legislative days after 
the resolution is properly noticed.
  Pending that designation, the form of the resolution noticed by the 
gentleman from Texas will appear in the Record at this point.
  The Chair will not at this point determine whether the resolution 
constitutes a question of privilege. That determination will be made at 
the time designated for consideration of the resolution.

                          ____________________



