

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1753-H1754]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Poe 
             of Texas, and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 5357. A bill to amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to 
     require congressional approval of agreements for peaceful 
     nuclear cooperation with foreign countries, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr. Hollingsworth, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Grothman, and Mr. Sensenbrenner):
       H.R. 5358. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to issue regulations relating to commercial motor vehicle 
     drivers under the age of 21, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Serrano, Ms. Meng, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Pascrell, and Mr. 
             Courtney):
       H.R. 5359. A bill to amend title 13, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of

[[Page H1754]]

     Commerce to provide advance notice to Congress before 
     changing any questions on the decennial census, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. MEADOWS:
       H.R. 5360. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for a credit against tax for qualified 
     special law enforcement officers; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. PAULSEN:
       H.R. 5361. A bill to require that the Secretary of the 
     Treasury establish a program for the issuance of identity 
     protection personal identification numbers; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI:
       H.R. 5362. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modernize and improve the management of Internal 
     Revenue Service information technology; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Costa):
       H.R. 5363. A bill to safeguard the Crime Victims Fund; to 
     the Committee on the Budget, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Rules, and the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Smith of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 5364. A bill to improve security at State and local 
     courthouses; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania (for himself, Ms. 
             McCollum, and Mr. Stivers):
       H.R. 5365. A bill to amend the Community Services Block 
     Grant Act to reauthorize and modernize the Act; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER (for herself, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 5366. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for certain authorized actions regarding interdiction 
     of unmanned aircraft, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Homeland Security, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS:
       H.R. 5367. A bill to amend Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of 
     Civil Procedure to protect the ``gig economy'' and small 
     businesses that operate in large part through contractor 
     services from the threat of costly class action litigation, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan (for himself, Mrs. Walorski, 
             and Mr. Renacci):
       H.R. 5368. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require that certain tax refunds be made by 
     electronic funds transfer, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. COOPER (for himself, Mr. Norman, Mr. Budd, and 
             Miss Rice of New York):
       H.R. 5369. A bill to prohibit the consideration in the 
     House of Representatives of any legislation containing an 
     earmark; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas:
       H.R. 5370. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to eliminate the IRS Oversight Board; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 5371. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide student loan eligibility for mid-career, part-time 
     students, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. MITCHELL:
       H.R. 5372. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make permanent certain provisions of Public Law 115-
     97, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Kilmer, and 
             Mr. Biggs):
       H.R. 5373. A bill to provide support for the production of 
     algae, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Scott 
             of Virginia, Mr. Takano, Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. Pocan, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Barragan, 
             Mr. Crowley, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Evans, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Crist, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Sherman, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Peters, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Kildee, Ms. Norton, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Pallone, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Himes, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Titus, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Langevin, Ms. DeGette, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Frankel 
             of Florida, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Bass, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Vela, Mr. Yarmuth, Mrs. Dingell, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Payne, Ms. Moore, Ms. Matsui, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Gallego, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Kilmer, 
             Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Costa, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Cooper, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Bera, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Welch, Mr. Ruiz, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Vargas, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mr. O'Rourke, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Carbajal, 
             Mr. McEachin, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, and Mrs. Torres):
       H.R. 5374. A bill to end discrimination based on actual or 
     perceived sexual orientation or gender identity in public 
     schools, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             and Mr. Bishop of Michigan):
       H.R. 5375. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to submit to Congress a comprehensive customer service 
     strategy for the Internal Revenue Service; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RENACCI:
       H.R. 5376. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to ensure that contractors to whom return information is 
     disclosed comply with confidentiality safeguards; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mrs. Black, and Mr. Bishop 
             of Michigan):
       H.R. 5377. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to make available an internet platform to prepare and file 
     Forms 1099, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. SCALISE:
       H.R. 5378. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to conduct a proceeding to determine whether 
     certain activities by licensees of the Commission are 
     undertakings under division A of subtitle III of title 54, 
     United States Code, or major Federal actions under the 
     National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. FASO:
       H. Res. 793. A resolution recognizing the importance of the 
     Upper Delaware River in New York State; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ROSS (for himself and Mrs. Walorski):
       H. Res. 794. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the national parks, national forests, 
     and public lands and waters of the United States contribute 
     greatly to the economic and physical well-being of Americans 
     and can be further improved by public-private partnerships; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself and Mr. 
             Norcross):
       H. Res. 795. A resolution recognizing the United States 
     role in the evolving energy landscape of the Gulf Cooperation 
     Council countries; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



