

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 19 (Monday, January 29, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S554]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





         VETERAN PARTNERS' EFFORTS TO ENHANCE REINTEGRATION ACT

  On Thursday, January 25, 2018, the Senate passed S. 1873, as amended, 
as follows:

                                S. 1873

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Veteran Partners' Efforts to 
     Enhance Reintegration Act'' or the ``Veteran PEER Act''.

     SEC. 2. PROGRAM ON ESTABLISHMENT OF PEER SPECIALISTS IN 
                   PATIENT ALIGNED CARE TEAM SETTINGS WITHIN 
                   MEDICAL CENTERS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
                   AFFAIRS.

       (a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall carry out a program to establish not fewer than two 
     peer specialists in patient aligned care teams at medical 
     centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs to promote the 
     use and integration of services for mental health, substance 
     use disorder, and behavior health in a primary care setting.
       (b) Timeframe for Establishment of Program.--The Secretary 
     shall carry out the program at medical centers of the 
     Department as follows:
       (1) Not later than December 31, 2018, at not fewer than 25 
     medical centers of the Department.
       (2) Not later than December 31, 2019, at not fewer than 50 
     medical centers of the Department.
       (c) Selection of Locations.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary shall select medical centers 
     for the program as follows:
       (A) Not fewer than five shall be medical centers of the 
     Department that are designated by the Secretary as polytrauma 
     centers.
       (B) Not fewer than ten shall be medical centers of the 
     Department that are not designated by the Secretary as 
     polytrauma centers.
       (2) Considerations.--In selecting medical centers for the 
     program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider the 
     feasibility and advisability of selecting medical centers in 
     the following areas:
       (A) Rural areas and other areas that are underserved by the 
     Department.
       (B) Areas that are not in close proximity to an active duty 
     military installation.
       (C) Areas representing different geographic locations, such 
     as census tracts established by the Bureau of the Census.
       (d) Gender-Specific Services.--In carrying out the program 
     at each location selected under subsection (c), the Secretary 
     shall ensure that--
       (1) the needs of female veterans are specifically 
     considered and addressed; and
       (2) female peer specialists are made available to female 
     veterans who are treated at each location.
       (e) Engagement With Community Providers.--At each location 
     selected under subsection (c), the Secretary shall consider 
     ways in which peer specialists can conduct outreach to health 
     care providers in the community who are known to be serving 
     veterans to engage with those providers and veterans served 
     by those providers.
       (f) Reports.--
       (1) Periodic reports.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once 
     every 180 days thereafter until the Secretary determines that 
     the program is being carried out at the last location to be 
     selected under subsection (c), the Secretary shall submit to 
     Congress a report on the program.
       (B) Elements.--Each report required by subparagraph (A) 
     shall, with respect to the 180-day period preceding the 
     submittal of the report, include the following:
       (i) The findings and conclusions of the Secretary with 
     respect to the program.
       (ii) An assessment of the benefits of the program to 
     veterans and family members of veterans.
       (iii) An assessment of the effectiveness of peer 
     specialists in engaging under subsection (e) with health care 
     providers in the community and veterans served by those 
     providers.
       (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     Secretary determines that the program is being carried out at 
     the last location to be selected under subsection (c), the 
     Secretary shall submit to Congress a report detailing the 
     recommendations of the Secretary as to the feasibility and 
     advisability of expanding the program to additional 
     locations.

                          ____________________



