

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2077-S2078]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I have 14 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 10:15 
a.m. to conduct a hearing.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Kirsten Dawn Madison, 
of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary (International Narcotics and 
Law Enforcement Affairs), and Thomas J. Hushek, of Wisconsin, to be 
Ambassador to the Republic of South Sudan, both of the Department of 
State.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, 
at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Patrick 
Fuchs, of Wisconsin, and Michelle A. Schultz, of Pennsylvania, both to 
be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board, Department of 
Transportation, and Rebecca Kelly Slaughter, of Maryland, to be a 
Federal Trade Commissioner.


            Committee Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized to

[[Page S2078]]

meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 
10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Opioid Crisis Response Act 
of 2018.''


        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 
11, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``FEMA: 
Prioritizing a Culture of Preparedness.''


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``The President's FY2019 budget Request for 
Indian Programs''.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing on S. 1250 and S. 2515.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Mark Jeremy Bennett, of 
Hawaii, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Nancy 
E. Brasel, and Eric C. Tostrud, both to be a United States District 
Judge for the District of Minnesota, Robert R. Summerhays, to be United 
States District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, and Wendy 
Vitter, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of 
Louisiana.


                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Paul R. Lawrence, of 
Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Benefits, and 
Joseph L. Falvey, Jr., of Michigan, to be a Judge of the United States 
Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.


            Subcommitee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities

  The Subcommitee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities of the Committee 
on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing.


            Subcommitee on Readiness and Management Support

  The Subcommitee on Readiness and Management Support of the Committee 
on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing.


                    Subcommitee on Strategic Forces

  The Subcommitee on Strategic Forces of the Committee on Armed 
Services is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing.


Subcommitee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness

  The Subcommitee on International Trade, Customs, and Global 
Competitiveness of the Committee on Finance is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 2:30 
p.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Market Access Challenges in 
China.''


                   Subcommitee on Crime and Terrorism

  The Subcommitee on Crime and Terrorism of the Committee on the 
Judiciary is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Defeating Fentanyl: Addressing the Deadliest Drugs Fueling the Opioid 
Crisis.''

                          ____________________



