

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1257-H1262]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       THE TAX CUTS AND JOBS ACT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Ferguson). Under the Speaker's announced 
policy of January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell) 
is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.


                             General Leave

  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material germane to the topic of this Special 
Order.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Michigan?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I am here with Mrs. Walters from 
California, who is the co-chair of the Tax Truth Squad. This has been 
an exciting first 14 months for me serving Michigan's 10th 
Congressional District. I had the privilege of representing the 
freshman class in House leadership.
  Tax cuts and tax reform are important to me, as I grew up the oldest 
of seven kids in a family in which dad built trucks in a line and my 
mom worked full time more often than not to support our family. I saw 
firsthand the difficulties experienced to make ends meet and support 
that family. That is why I am committed to ensuring policies that 
create jobs, economic growth, and wages in the pockets of people who go 
to work every day and get a paycheck.
  Until last December, it seemed to be only a dream that we could 
achieve meaningful tax cuts and reform. It had been more than 30 years 
since that had been updated. Since that time, layers of rules and new 
additions to the Tax Code had grown that into a beast of 74,000 pages. 
You would have to be a wizard to know what was in it.
  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act addressed these problems and put more money 
in the pockets of hardworking Americans so they can make decisions 
about how to use their own money.
  Up until now we have talked about the possibilities and the dream of 
tax cuts and reform. Now we can talk about the realities of what tax 
reform is bringing to America.
  Representative Walters and I have organized a series of floor 
speeches that begin tonight a little later than originally planned. 
Each legislative week we have designated one or more States' 
delegations that will join us and talk about tax reform, tax cuts, and 
the impact it is having on their constituents and their districts.
  Texas is kicking off that initiative tonight.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from California (Mrs. Mimi 
Walters), who is the co-chair of the Tax Truth Squad.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman 
from Michigan for yielding and for his efforts to share the stories of 
Americans who are seeing the positive impacts of tax reform.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to set the record straight on the Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act. From day one, misinformation about the benefits of this 
historic tax reform plan have circulated. The truth is that Americans 
across the country are receiving bonuses, pay increases, and other 
benefits that are helping them support their families and save for 
their futures.
  Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Michigan and I started the Truth 
Tellers Initiative on Tax Reform to highlight the many ways this bill 
helps the American people.
  Since December, we have witnessed the positive impacts of tax reform. 
Small businesses are expanding, jobs are being created, retirement and 
benefit packages are increasing in value, and the American people are 
keeping more of their hard-earned paychecks.
  Over the coming months, Representatives from each State will have the 
opportunity to share how tax reform has helped their constituents.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, as we go through the evening, I will try 
to highlight some important components of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  I think one of the most important components is the larger standard 
deduction. We have doubled the standard deduction from $12,000 to 
$24,000 for married couples. We created a simpler filing process. What 
we created was, in essence, a filing process where 90 percent of 
Americans can file their taxes on a form about this size, significantly 
better than the current Tax Code.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Brady), who is 
a good friend, a colleague, and the gentleman who led us through the 
whole battle to achieve this epic change. Congressman Kevin Brady is 
the author of the legislation and a true champion for American 
taxpayers. He is the Representative of the Eighth District of Texas and 
the chairperson of the Ways and Means Committee.
  Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Mitchell and 
Congresswoman Mimi Walters for arranging this Special Order to 
highlight the benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. I am excited to be 
joined by our Texas colleagues.
  Texas is a big winner, like many States, because of the Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act. They estimate it will create 81,000 new, good-paying jobs in 
our State alone. But that is not just our State. You see huge job gains 
in California, New York, throughout the Southern States, throughout our 
Midwest area, and throughout our manufacturing regions.
  This historic tax reform is making a real difference for our families 
and our workers. We all know about tax relief for our small businesses, 
the first ever 20 percent small business deduction in history. The bill 
will be a write-off on day one in new investment in plants, equipment, 
software, and technology.
  People know that we made our companies more competitive so they can 
compete and win all around the world, especially here at home.
  I get excited about what we did for families, lowering the tax rates 
at every level. So whether you made $20,000 or $520,000, you keep more 
of what you earn. We doubled the standard deduction so few people have 
to itemize. We doubled the child credit and quadrupled how many 
Americans can actually use it. For the first time, all middle class 
Americans are going to get help raising children. We are doing away 
with the AMT except for households up to $1 million. What that means 
next year is, instead of 5 million Americans getting caught up with 
that double tax, it is about 200,000, a fraction of what it is today.

  What I really love are the stories. I was in Home Depot the other 
day, on Sunday. Apparently, we are redoing our bathroom. So my wife was 
looking at samples, and a woman came up and introduced herself. Her 
name is Pam. She is a small-business person. She redoes furniture, 
repaints, and all that, but she works at Home Depot to make ends meet. 
She introduced herself and said:

       Thank you. I get $184 more every paycheck. Maybe that 
     couple thousand dollars doesn't mean much in Washington, but 
     for my family, it really means a lot. Thank you for that.

  Donald from Willis, Texas, saw the benefits of this law in his pay 
stub. He said:

       My Federal tax deducted from my paycheck went from 12 to 9 
     percent. Yes, I am very happy.

  Mr. Speaker, because of tax reform, Texans are excited for a strong 
and growing economy.
  Larry from Spring, Texas, said:

       As a 78-year-old retiree working part time, even a small 
     difference in take-home pay is

[[Page H1258]]

     welcome. I am delighted to see the spur to overall economic 
     activity that should benefit all, locally and nationally.

                              {time}  2045

  Every day, I hear stories like this: people receiving raises and 
bigger benefits at work. And we did, simply, the Code. As Congressman 
Mitchell pointed out, under the new Tax Code, next year, nearly 90 
percent of Americans will be able to file their taxes using a simple 
postcard-style system. That is fairness. That is growth. That is 
increasing jobs and paychecks.
  I want to thank my colleagues from Texas joining us here tonight for 
their critical role in passing this historic Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 
Without this support, it wouldn't have happened.
  I also thank Congressman Mitchell and Congresswoman Walters for 
arranging this Special Order and continuing, as they did during the 
debates, informing people of the tax reform plan. I thank them for 
playing such a leadership role.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Brady for his leadership on 
this issue. He talked a little bit of the impact it has had on his 
district in Texas. Here, we have a sign. Since the tax reform bill 
passed, more than 400 companies have given a pay raise, a bonus, 
increased 401(k) contributions, or, in the case of utilities, lowered 
their rates.
  At least 4 million Americans are receiving special tax reform 
bonuses. The direct bonus announcements already, to date, exceed $3 
billion. There are companies like JetBlue, KeyBank, and DTE Energy in 
my district back home, Alaska Airlines. We could go through the list. 
Four hundred companies have already announced major changes and major 
investments. These have a major impact throughout the country and on 
our constituents.
  Next, we are going to hear from another colleague and a good friend. 
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the Representative from the 25th District of 
Texas (Mr. Williams), who has consistently been a voice of 
businessowners throughout his district and America through his work on 
the Financial Services Committee.
  Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to take this time to talk 
about how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is benefiting Texas, especially 
folks in the 25th Congressional District that I represent.
  There are approximately 28 million people lucky enough to call 
themselves Texans. Of that, I have the great honor of representing 
hundreds of thousands of hardworking Americans who wake up and go to 
work every day, just like you and me.
  For 5 years, I have traveled up and down the 25th District of Texas, 
most recently, just last week, where I visited many local businesses 
along the way. I have witnessed firsthand the hardships that families 
and small businesses face day in and day out due to an intrusive 
Federal Government and overreaching administration.
  I pledged to these people that I would bring my commonsense business 
perspective to Washington in order to jump-start this economy, and I am 
proud to say that I upheld that promise.
  When I visited these folks last week, there was something different 
about them. For the first time in a long time, I had businessowners and 
their employees telling me about the positive impacts coming from our 
Nation's Tax Code. They were telling me they noticed more money in 
their most recent paychecks. One man even told me he plans to use his 
extra money to put into his 401(k) so that he can save even more for 
his retirement.
  This means parents can now plan for their future and start putting 
away money for their kids' college funds. It means companies are adding 
to their workforce and that those individuals can keep more money in 
their pockets.
  Ultimately, these hardworking Texans are seeing more jobs, fairer 
taxes, and bigger paychecks. I am proud to be their voice in 
Washington, and I will continue fighting on their behalf.
  In God we trust.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, some of our colleagues on the floor, as we 
worked toward passing this epic reform, talked about the Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act as being Armageddon, as being the end of the world. Let's talk 
a little about that.
  On CNBC on February 20, they had a survey: Q1 Small Business 
Confidence Index saw an increase of 5 points. Forty-six percent of 
those surveyed say tax policy changes will have a positive effect on 
their business, up from 38 percent in the fourth quarter. The number of 
those same tax policy changes that have a negative impact fell sharply 
to 23 percent. Only one in three respondents expect to receive a tax 
cut. The independent Tax Policy Center estimates that four out of five 
Americans will actually see a tax cut at the end of the year.
  Not quite the Armageddon some of our colleagues predicted.
  We are now going to hear from another colleague. Representing Texas' 
22nd District and a vocal advocate for a simpler and fairer Tax Code, 
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Olson).
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, my friend from Michigan 
(Mr. Mitchell), and his cohost, Mrs. Walters of California, for this 
first Special Order of the Tax Reform Truth Squad.
  We are thrilled that Texans have the first chance to speak on such an 
important issue. Texans love to brag about Texas, and that is what we 
will do tonight. That is what I will do.
  I want to brag about two stories from home and two faces from home. 
The first face is Justin Mannino. He runs the Houston Shoe Hospital in 
my hometown of Sugar Land, Texas. It is right there at the corner of 
Williams Trace and State Highway 6. For 10 years, I have taken my boots 
to be shined at that store.
  I have talked to Justin about what the Tax Code and the cuts will do 
for his business. He said:

       It is simple. More money in my pocket means I will pay off 
     all my credit cards and all our debt.

  But most importantly, Justin met his bride in Mexico. They were 
married there. With all this new money he has because of our tax cuts, 
he plans to take his two kids to the same church where they were 
married to baptize them in the Lord, Jesus Christ. That is priceless. 
That has happened because of these tax cuts.
  A second story and face that comes to mind is a dear friend, Andres 
Novoa. He is the owner of a Fort Bend County icon, La Cocina Mexican 
Restaurant, right there off of Highway 357.
  He told me that the biggest benefit to his business is that he can 
pay his employees more--more money in their pockets. He can expand his 
business. He can get new equipment. He said the last 4 years of high 
taxes and the exploding regulations have caused a small retraction in 
his business. He is now in full expansion mode. He is giving his 
employees more pay and has plans right now to buy more equipment.
  And there is more.
  Andres is the heart and soul of an annual fundraiser for seniors' 
Meals on Wheels in Fort Bend County. Every Cinco de Mayo, when Mexico 
celebrates their independence from France, he has a fundraiser at La 
Cocina. Last year, he raised over $60,000. With more money in his 
pocket, he thinks he can have a bigger party and maybe raise $100,000, 
or maybe purchase a new van to deliver food.
  This is a picture of Andres. He is smiling because he was talking 
with us about those amazing tax cuts. He is just one more picture.
  I invite America to check out Justin's and Andres' story at my 
website, my Facebook page, or on Twitter. Hear their voices. See them 
speak. Learn what they have learned.
  I will close with a request from Justin and Andres. They want me to 
say thank you to President Donald Trump and thank you to every Member 
of Congress who voted for this bill.
  This bill is not about crumbs. This bill is about real money in real 
people's pockets. I invite everyone to come down to Houston, Texas, in 
Sugar Land, and get your boots shined at Houston Shoe Hospital. If you 
have some time, add another belt buckle, because you will get filled up 
at Andres' restaurant, La Cocina.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for joining us.
  We were talking about some of the improvements in people's lives that 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has created. Over the weekend, I received a 
message from one of my constituents, Mark. I know him. He and his wife 
work hard. They don't make a lot of money.

[[Page H1259]]

  But I got a nice note saying: Thank you so much. They met with their 
accountant about this year's taxes and projected next year. He said 
they will have another $2,700 a year in their pocket that they will 
have to make decisions about fixing their house or maybe taking a 
little vacation up north.
  These are the things the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has done.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Sessions), a 
good friend of mine who has been an instrumental Member in bringing the 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to the House floor. His work on behalf of the 
32nd District of Texas and all Americans has certainly been recognized. 
He is also chairman of the Rules Committee.
  Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, tonight I join to talk and to thank the 
leadership of the Republican Party, who made a firm decision during the 
last elections that our party needed to stand for not only making 
America great again, but every single American who needed an 
opportunity to join in that endeavor.
  Tonight, I stand in this beautiful time that we discuss the tax bill 
that Republicans passed last year and talk about the effects of it and 
how much it has helped in America.
  I think a story needs to be told about what the goal of the tax bill 
was. Why did Republicans work so hard to move these ideas forward?
  The bottom line to it is Americans watched as the Democratic Party 
and President Obama not only had their control of the country, but 
economically, as the policies of the Democratic Party became more 
apparent to people, Americans and the world watched as America dwindled 
in economic activity and economic growth.
  This took place because of the policies that the President, President 
Obama at the time, brought forth and Congress passed: trillion-dollar 
spending plans, trillion-dollar increases in the budget, and talk of 
raising taxes another trillion dollars.
  What happened is, for some 8 years, there was GDP growth of about 1.2 
percent. Mr. Speaker, that means, very plainly, that it would take 
about 70 years to double the size of our economy, which means that 
communities and States and companies and individuals lag behind as they 
would watch other cities and other countries and other people around 
the globe not only have economic activity, but opportunities that came 
to their doorsteps. IPOs, or initial public offerings, and all the 
acronyms that go with economic growth and development went overseas; 
they went other places.
  So Republicans began this discussion with the American people going 
into 2010 that said: We need to be careful about government spending, 
but, on the same side, what we need to do is to grow our economy. That 
is exactly the discussion that took place during the last Presidential 
election.
  So as soon as the election was over, Republicans began the process of 
not only making America great again, but doing it by empowering every 
single State and every single American to be a part of this growth. 
Essentially, there was a look at some $12 trillion worth of economic 
tax components.
  Kevin Brady, who is the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, 
from Houston, Texas--actually, Spring, Texas--was in charge, as the 
chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, of looking at how we were 
going to move our economy forward. I call that pop.
  How we were going to take economic activity and, instead of perhaps 
helping an individual or a company or necessarily one particular part 
of the economy, we wanted where it would go and add pop or 
generationally develop more economic activity than just for a singular 
entity.

                              {time}  2100

  And Kevin Brady, as the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, 
looked at some $5.6 trillion out of this $12 trillion and said: We need 
to take that and make that the engine of the economy.
  So a decision was made to move that directly to the free enterprise 
system. Mr. Speaker, it is the free enterprise system that stands as 
the greatest activity for freedom in the world, an activity that not 
only brings opportunity and investment and entrepreneurship, but more 
than that, wealth. It has brought wealth to the United States of 
America, a free enterprise system that is there to produce for anyone 
that chooses to be participatory in that environment--an opportunity to 
begin by investing your own money, by hard work where you show up at 
work, and having customers or consumers that go and generate economic 
activity, and that is what America has been, and that is what we were 
slowing down.
  The engine of that economy was slowed down because our predecessors, 
not only in the Presidency but also our friends who are Democrats, 
believed that they would engage the free enterprise system in such a 
way that did not allow it to grow, did not allow it to expand, and did 
not allow itself to build.
  So what Kevin Brady did, as chairman of the Ways and Means, was 
propose a tax bill that would take $5.6 trillion worth of tax 
components and move it directly to the free enterprise system. By 
moving it to the free enterprise system, we reduced taxes. We reduced 
taxes from the 37 percent range for corporate down to 21 percent.
  What does that do? Well, that takes America, an American business as 
seen by the world, from 24th in the world to number one. So instead of 
us being what might be on a list of 24th place of easy-to-do business, 
that was generating not only goods and services, but was the ease of 
doing business with, that people wanted to be a part of, that has taken 
us to first in the world.
  That means that America will begin building back not only jobs and 
job creation, but it will build back with the intellectual capacity to 
build the newest, finest ideas and products that the world needs for 
tomorrow because America will be a place that is not only easy to do 
business but is less priced, and because we can be less priced, we can 
become the products of choice all around the world.
  So, Mr. Speaker, I want to say: This is working. This is working to 
take America not only where they are in first place, but it means 
Americans and American companies can be in the same position.
  As a Member of Congress from Dallas, Texas, I have an opportunity to 
see firsthand not only how this impacts people and companies but how it 
impacts the workers. And it wasn't but 2 weeks ago when I was at what 
was called the National Write Your Congressman, which is headquartered 
in Dallas, Texas. Randy Ford is their President; and Randy gave me good 
news. He said that of the small businesses that they had talked to, 
that they believed that 74 percent of small-business owners expected 
revenues to be higher in 2018, and even higher the next year, which 
meant that they felt positive about not only economic growth but, more 
importantly, their companies.
  I also visited Texas Moving Company, which is a family owned business 
of some 40 years old that is in Richardson, Texas, and they told me, 
point-blank, that as a result of us making sure that we would reduce 
the cost of doing business by reducing taxes, that they had increased 
their driver's pay by over $2,400.
  That means that it does come directly to the employees that are able 
to have not only more take-home pay, but they are able to know that 
they can fall into more easily knowing that they may take a part-time 
job to a full-time job, a full-time job to a career, and a career as an 
opportunity to make sure that they better the lives of not only their 
family but their children also in their community.
  And this is why Texas Moving Company made a decision then, as they 
saw this money that they would have; they made a determination that 
they would increase their employees by $2,400, but they also increased 
their health insurance reimbursement to where they now pay $3,484 a 
year to help their employees to pay more of their healthcare costs 
because they can do that on a pretax basis.
  Mr. Speaker, it is all these things that the Republican majority has 
done. When others said it would simply be crumbs or unimportant, we 
said we are going to focus on making America great again; and when you 
do that, you will find that you not only make America great, but you 
make Americans and their families greater also.
  Mr. Speaker, this is why we, as Texans, stand up not only as proud 
Members of the Congress, but also as proud Americans who say: We want 
to make

[[Page H1260]]

sure that everybody, no matter where they live in the United States, 
that they would be a part of making their city, their State, their 
company, and their family even stronger.
  I appreciate Mr. Mitchell allowing me to be here tonight. It is my 
hope that the discussion that we have with the American people and the 
Chair, Mr. Speaker, that you will recognize that if we are going to do 
this, it will mean that we are going to have to understand it is not up 
to government to make this work; it is up to the American people. We 
are giving them the tools in this tax bill, and I think they will do 
the right thing for everybody.
  Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman yielding to me this evening.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate Mr. Sessions joining me 
tonight. As I said, along the way, we are going to highlight some 
aspects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  Real quickly, I want to outline that up to $24,000 of a married 
couple's income is taxed zero. There is no tax on that. We continue to 
allow families to write off State and local taxes, up to $10,000. We 
help families with children in taking care of their loved ones by 
doubling the child tax credit and preserving the child and dependent 
tax credit, while also preserving the adoption tax credit, all critical 
things to families and helping support families through the Tax Code.

  Mr. Speaker, I next yield to the Congressman from Texas (Mr. Flores), 
a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee with decades of 
experience in job creation and providing opportunity for economic 
growth.
  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding to me. 
Today, I rise with my fellow Texas colleagues to share some examples of 
how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is helping hardworking Texans and their 
families.
  Our bold progrowth tax reform bill was signed into law just 67 days 
ago. Since then, more than 4 million Americans have seen some 
combination of a wage boost, a bonus, or enhanced employee benefits. 
Businesses with footprints in the 17th Congressional District, the 
district that I am honored to represent, such as Apple, Best Buy, 
Cognizant, CVS, FedEx, Home Depot, Lowe's, Starbucks, U-Haul, UPS, 
Walmart, Waste Management, and Visa have passed on some of the savings 
that they are getting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on to their 
employees.
  Additionally, we know that there are plenty of other small and large 
businesses in Texas that are doing the same. Another great example of 
the benefits to central Texas families is Oncor Electric, which serves 
about 3.4 million homes and businesses in Texas, including seven 
counties in the 17th Congressional District. They have agreed to return 
all of the tax cut benefits to their customers in the form of lower 
energy bills.
  Now that Federal tax withholding tables have been updated to reflect 
the lower tax rates, many Texans are taking home bigger paychecks. In 
the 17th Congressional District, a typical working class family of four 
will see a tax cut of $1,885. This very welcome influx of cash helped 
central Texans have a chance to save and a chance to get ahead.
  I am also proud to represent a district that includes a significant 
footprint of Texas' best research institutions, including Texas A&M 
University, Baylor University, and the University of Texas at Austin.
  Our new progrowth tax system provides support for graduate students 
by continuing to exempt the value of reduced and free tuition from 
taxes. This is something that I fought hard to preserve so that we can 
continue to have the best and brightest students as they educate and 
pursue important research initiatives in the 21st century and in the 
State of Texas.
  Mr. Speaker, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is doing exactly what we set 
out to do, which is to help create more jobs, bigger paychecks, and 
fairer taxes for hardworking American families. I thank the gentlewoman 
from California (Mrs. Mimi Walters); the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Mitchell); and the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Brady), chairman of the 
House Ways and Means Committee, for leading this great discussion 
tonight on the positive changes that have been brought about through 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. I look forward to learning more about, and 
sharing, these important success stories with the citizens from my 
district.
  As I close, I ask that all Americans continue to pray for our country 
during these difficult times, for the families of the victims in 
Florida, the recent Florida shootings, for our military men and women 
who protect us from external threats, and for our first responders who 
protect us at home.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I continue with the discussion of the 
impact to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act by introducing a colleague on the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the defender of a 
strong rural economy, representing the 36th District of Texas.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to Congressman Brian Babin.
  Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Paul Mitchell for this 
opportunity to talk about our historic tax cut legislation and the 
great benefits that are flowing to small businesses and the tens of 
millions of Americans who work for them.
  This is especially true in the great State of Texas and the nine 
counties that I represent from Houston to the Louisiana State line, 
which has more petrochemical refining facilities than any district in 
the entire United States, and their employees benefitting from lower 
taxes. But the gains and the headlines that we have seen say so much 
more than that. The gains extend far beyond just employees benefitting 
from lower taxes. I am also hearing from hundreds of individuals and 
families about how their tax bills are being cut and what they plan to 
do with their larger paychecks.
  ExxonMobil has announced a $50 billion investment in its U.S. 
operations and employees over the next 5 years. Walmart has already 
boosted hourly wages and provided employees with a bonus. Boeing, 
Incorporated, has announced $300 million in employee-related 
investments and charitable giving.
  Let's break this down even further to the stories that aren't making 
the headlines of major papers but which are improving lives and growing 
businesses all across southeast Texas.

  Juan and Leigh both owned small businesses in Houston and were able 
to hire additional employees with the money that they are saving from 
their tax cuts. That is putting Americans to work immediately.
  Amy in Polk County shared with me that she was able to purchase new 
equipment to run her business much more efficiently. Helen in Tyler 
County took her tax savings and plowed it back into her business to 
help it grow. Julie in Orange shared that she will save enough from the 
tax cuts to purchase a larger inventory for her business.
  Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and I am hearing 
story after story just like this about small businesses growing and 
hiring our friends and our neighbors. The individual tax rate cuts are 
making a huge difference for east Texans as over 90 percent of 
Americans are getting a tax cut.
  Robert from Highlands wrote to tell me that he is using his tax 
savings to help his daughter get a college degree. Alan in Houston has 
decided to put his tax cut into savings for his retirement. Ms. Drake 
is now able to buy a new stove, while Justin from Harris County is 
paying down credit card debt.
  Scott is using his savings to help him buy a brand new home. Mr. 
Woods told me that with his tax savings, he is spending it on his wife. 
He may be the smartest of us all.
  The tax cuts are even helping in Hurricane Harvey recovery. Judy from 
Orange County shared with me how the tax cuts have enabled her to 
replace household items destroyed by Hurricane Harvey, and Jason from 
Baytown is able to now repair his home.
  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is making a real difference in the lives of 
our friends and our neighbors in southeast Texas and all across this 
Nation.

                              {time}  2115

  These decisions add up to tens of billions of dollars of investments 
in our economy, in small businesses, in education, and in the 
improvement of our lives.
  Tens of millions of Americans are seeing lower payroll deductions 
resulting in bigger paychecks, more retirement savings, bigger family 
budgets,

[[Page H1261]]

and relief at every level. This tax cut bill is benefiting families, 
job creators, and our economy.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague from Michigan, Mr. Paul 
Mitchell, for giving us this opportunity to speak about this wonderful 
historic tax package.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Babin for joining us this 
evening.
  Congressman Babin talked about the impact on small businesses. Many 
businesses in his district are what are called pass-throughs--they are 
family businesses. For the first time ever, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 
provides the ability for small businesses to deduct 20 percent of their 
income and tax it at a much lower rate--at 25 percent--to allow those 
businesses to grow.
  It also allows those businesses to immediately write off the full 
cost of new equipment, rather than expense it or amortize it over 7 
years, because money out of their pocket now means it is real money out 
that they can't wait for 7 years to get back to the Tax Code--
significant differences allowing businesses in my district and 
throughout the country to invest in growth.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Weber), my colleague representing the 14th District of Texas, with 
extensive real-world experience in the private sector through his own 
small business.
  Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Mitchell for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, tonight, the Texas delegation comes before the American 
people to say that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is working. It is making a 
positive impact on our paychecks and our lives. This bill is making a 
big difference--not just crumbs--it is making a big difference.
  Mr. Speaker, Ronald Reagan once said: `` . . . whenever we lower the 
tax rates, our Nation is better off.'' President Reagan was on to 
something.
  Mr. Speaker, in just over 2 months--listen to these astounding 
statistics--in just over 2 months, 350 companies have announced more 
than $3 billion worth of bonuses. That benefits over 4 million 
Americans. The success of this bill spans from coast to coast and 
across all industries, both large and small, and across Democrat and 
Republican, I might add, Mr. Speaker.
  During the week, I hear the success of this bill as companies make 
their various announcements. Then, on the weekends, when I am back home 
and out in the district, I have people coming up to me, telling me 
about the great things this bill is doing for them, their families, and 
their businesses.
  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is making a big difference. Everyone has a 
story to share. Paychecks are bigger. There are more opportunities. 
Student loans don't seem as daunting. A new car seems within reach. 
Sports equipment for their children is reasonable. That family vacation 
they have been saving for now is on the verge of reality.
  Mr. Speaker, we have a lot of small businesses in the 14th District 
of Texas. I used to be one of them, as Mr. Mitchell alluded to. Those 
small businesses support the community in more ways than one.
  One, in particular, in my district has announced benefits from the 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and that is Hawkins Lease Service in Alvin, 
Texas. Jay and Adrienne Hawkins are great friends, great business 
people, and great patriots. Jay let me know the other day that they 
recently gave each of their employees a $1,000 bonus. Let me repeat 
that: it is $1,000. If I remember correctly, Jay said they have 120 
employees. Now--do the math--that is $120,000 put back into this 
economy, Mr. Speaker. That is far from crumbs. If you ask me, that will 
make a huge difference.
  ExxonMobil announced they were expanding their Permian Basin project. 
This expansion alone will create thousands of jobs, strengthen the 
economy, and bolster energy security, and national security, I might 
add. The Permian Basin is a bit of a drive away from us on the coast, 
but the increased production will provide low-cost supply and 
feedstocks to their operations throughout the State, including 
ExxonMobil's plant in our very own district, in Beaumont, Texas.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to tell you that there was something my dad 
taught me: if it ain't broke, don't fix it. I will tell you what, he 
also taught me: if it is broke, you better fix it, and fix it we did.
  My hat is off to Kevin Brady--what a great job he did--also, to Mr. 
Mitchell and Mrs. Walters for heading up this Special Order.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Brady for shepherding this bill 
through. We couldn't have done this without him. I also thank 
Congressman Mitchell and Congresswoman Walters for hosting this tax 
reform Special Order.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Arrington), from the 19th District of Texas, who is a member of the 
Budget Committee.
  Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Mitchell), for hosting us and giving us the opportunity 
from the great State of Texas to talk about all of the positive effects 
of this recent tax reform and tax relief for the American people.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have helped pass this historic tax relief 
for the American people and deliver on a promise that we would grow 
this economy, we would create jobs, and we would improve the overall 
quality of life for all Americans. I represent hardworking, God-
fearing, freedom-loving people in rural west Texas. They produce the 
food, fuel, and fiber for this great country. They feed and clothe the 
American people, and they fuel this great American economy.
  The burden of high taxes and regulations hurt all of our job 
creators, but they have a disproportionate negative impact on the 
little guys in rural America. Our small businesses, our community 
banks, our family farmers and ranchers are independent energy 
producers. I can say with great confidence--having been back to the 
district, having talked to numerous people from all over those 29 
counties I represent in the broad swath of land in west Texas--this tax 
cut and reform package is proenergy, it is proagriculture, and it is 
prorural America.

  Back in my district, we hosted some roundtables with small businesses 
and chambers of commerce. We had various events that I participated in. 
We even conducted surveys. According to our survey, over 80 percent of 
the people I represent say that this tax reform package has helped 
everybody.
  At one of our roundtable events, we had a veteran-owned 
agribusinessman who said that he had had 600 new customers this January 
over last year. He said that the effects of that was that he converted 
some of his part-time workers to full-time workers and gave folks a 
raise.
  At the Happy State Bank, the employees are happy, and there are happy 
days for that organization because they are saving $5 million and 
plowing it back into their human capital. Six hundred out of 700 of 
Happy State Bank employees will receive an increase in their pay and 
benefits. Some will receive over a 50 percent pay increase.
  Now, this is not crumbs to the folks whom I represent in west Texas. 
This is real cash in the pockets of real Americans who work hard every 
day to make ends meet.
  There has been a change in west Texas, and, for once, it is not the 
weather. There is a renewed optimism. You can hear it in their voices; 
you can see it in their faces.
  Mr. Speaker, we are witnessing a great American comeback, and the 
formula hasn't changed from the beginning of this great experiment. 
Limit the government and you will unleash the limitless potential of 
the American people.
  God bless America, and go west Texas.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Arrington referenced some of the 
changes in Texas in some of the important improvements in the business 
climate as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  Southwest Airlines and American Airlines both chose to give bonuses 
to their employees of $1,000 each shortly after passage of this bill 
and signed by President Trump.
  A surprise we hadn't anticipated was lowering electricity bills. Both 
in north Texas and in my district back in Michigan, there were massive 
cuts in utility rates as a result of lowering taxes--not something that 
we thought about or bargained for at the time.

[[Page H1262]]

  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Burgess) and 
thank him for bringing his medical expertise to the tax reform 
discussion with his service on the Energy and Commerce Committee, from 
the 26th District of Texas.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  1986 was the last time our Tax Code was refined. I had been 
practicing medicine for 5 years. Now, some 31 years later and after 15 
years in Congress, the reformation of our Tax Code has made a profound 
difference in our country.
  Mr. Speaker, it is not lost on me that the rhetoric prior to the vote 
on the conference report on the tax bill was pretty negative. The idea 
was to sow doubt in the minds of people who would be affected by the 
tax bill, to sow doubt in the minds of people who would otherwise be 
wanting to vote for tax relief for tax improvement.
  And I will have to tell you something: after that vote--and Mr. 
Mitchell referenced Southwest Airlines and American Airlines--I cannot 
remember having ever had the positive feedback for a vote that I have 
taken here in this Congress like there was for this tax vote.
  In my own Walmart, the week after Christmas, people were coming up to 
me saying, ``I work for American Airlines,'' or ``I work for Southwest 
Airlines.'' I have a lot of families in the 26th District of Texas who 
work for American Airlines or Southwest Airlines, and they all got 
$1,000 bonuses because of the tax relief that we had provided. Again, I 
cannot ever remember having that much positive reinforcement on a bill 
that, quite honestly, the rhetoric going into it was pretty negative.
  The benefits have been immediate, as indicated by the increases in 
salaries and bonuses paid to employees. And Southwest Airlines, in 
addition to the bonuses to their employees, donated $5 million to 
charity, as well as made some capital improvements.
  FedEx, which, of course, employs people all over the country, but has 
a big hub in the district that I represent, is going to spend $133 
million increasing hourly wages, as well as $67 million on programs for 
salaried employees, and, get this, $3 billion on their pension plan and 
capital improvements. That is a pretty big turnaround.

  The good folks at Peterbilt trucks, located in the 26th District of 
Texas, received over $170 million in tax benefits in the fourth quarter 
of 2017, as a direct result of this tax bill. Peterbilt also estimates 
that its 2018 effective global tax rate will be reduced by up to 8 
percent and that the lower corporate tax rate and accelerated 
depreciation will, indeed, stimulate capital investment.
  The increased prosperity of these and other companies will 
subsequently improve the financial situation of their employees. 
Coupled with a nearly doubled standard deduction, income for most 
individuals and families will, in fact, increase.
  Chairman Brady mentioned filing taxes on a postcard. Mr. Speaker, 
when I first came to Congress, I really wanted us to enact a flat tax. 
I still do. But I will take the improvement that we have gotten, the 
gift of time, back to, what, 85 to 90 percent of tax filers who no 
longer are going to have to keep up with that shoebox full of receipts 
and spend quality time with their accountants every March and April as 
they prepare their Federal tax return. We are going to allow people to 
pay for necessities, without having to worry about other discretionary 
items and services, often provided by small businesses.
  Local improvements in economic condition will not only benefit Main 
Street business owners, but I like to say it is going to benefit Elm 
Street business owners. That is the small business off of Main Street. 
It is going to allow people to spend money across State lines. 
Increased financial mobility will inject capital into the market and 
continue the growth of our economy.

                              {time}  2130

  Look, we are right on the verge of some pretty significant and 
profound economic changes that are going to be beneficial, I predict, 
to all Americans. This is an important time in this country, time for 
us to get to work and deliver for the American people.
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for joining me this 
evening.
  Mr. Speaker, I did want to, at this point, wrap up this evening's 
version of the Tax Truth Squad.
  Since the tax reform bill was passed and signed into law, let me 
state again that more than 400 companies have given a pay raise; 
bonuses; increased 401(k) contributions; or, in the case of utilities, 
lowered rates--lowered rates dramatically.
  At least 4 million Americans are receiving special tax reform 
bonuses. Direct bonus announcements have already topped $3 billion; $3 
billion into our economy, into people's pockets, decisions they can 
make about what they want to do with the money rather than turning it 
over to the government, rather than turning it over to the IRS, rather 
than having it spent on bureaucracy.
  In my home district, we will talk about that more next week, but I 
want to reference that Fiat Chrysler is moving jobs here from Mexico, 
moving to Macomb County, investing $1 billion--yes, you heard that 
right, investing $1 billion--in expanding a plant and creating 2,500 
new jobs in Michigan just in that one plant.
  By the way, they also announced a bonus--a tax bonus separate from 
their bonus in their contract, which some people said: Oh, it was in 
their contract.
  No, it wasn't. It was a bonus of $2,000 per employee as a result of 
the tax bill.
  These are major cuts that people overlook. Look at these companies, 
look at the list of them, and it grows every day.
  Let me suggest real quickly: I don't know about you, Mr. Speaker, but 
I know my district and I know my constituents, and $1,000 is not 
crumbs.
  I referenced earlier the note I got over the weekend from Mark in my 
district who says his projected taxes next year save him $2,700 in his 
pocket.
  Now, I know where you live, I know where I live, that is real money. 
Maybe for some of my colleagues, it doesn't matter as much, but that is 
why we passed this bill. That is why we worked so hard on this bill. 
That is why we support it. And that is the truth about taxes.
  That is what we want the American people to understand: we are 
putting money back in their pockets, money back in the economy, rather 
than taking money and putting it in government and hoping they do 
something productive with it.
  I thank the Chair for the opportunity this evening.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



