

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H21-H22]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    LAW ENFORCEMENT APPRECIATION DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, on National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day, 
we salute and thank the brave men and women who make up our law 
enforcement community.
  Officers on the local, State, and Federal level dedicate their 
efforts to keep

[[Page H22]]

us safe. They serve to protect the vulnerable and to defend us from 
harm. They patrol the neighborhood beats, walk our streets, and 
willingly put their lives on the line to do the work that makes our 
society safe.
  These men and women preserve our way of life by steadfastly 
safeguarding us from crime. To ensure the safety and protection of 
others, many have lost their lives in the line of duty. Their sacrifice 
must not be forgotten, and their families should always remain in our 
prayers.
  Though today is National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day, I believe 
members of our law enforcement community deserve our gratitude every 
day.


                         New Year, New Tax Code

  Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, it is a new year, and I am thankful that my 
Republican colleagues and I made good on our promise to bring about a 
new Tax Code. Due to the historic passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, 
most citizens, couples, and companies will finally receive the tax 
relief they have so desperately needed.
  The list of companies nationwide that have announced pay raises, 
bonuses, and 401(k) contributions is growing. Companies that weren't 
able to invest more in their employees in the past have found renewed 
confidence in this Nation's economic future.
  My colleagues on the other side of the aisle proclaimed that this 
bill was a tax scam that would only profit the rich. These baseless 
claims are the very epitome of fake news, and nothing could be further 
from the truth.
  Already, more than a million Americans have received bonuses because 
of our efforts to reform the Tax Code. $900 billion is being 
distributed to hardworking American taxpayers by job creators as of 
today.
  Thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we have witnessed companies 
begin to reinvest in the future of employees. In fact, Aflac announced 
it will increase 401(k) matching from 50 percent to 100 percent for the 
first 4 percent of employee contribution, on top of issuing one-time 
bonuses to employees.
  Our job creators are so inspired by the reforms we worked hard for, 
and those who are working toward retirement will enjoy these benefits 
for years to come.
  While some in this Chamber stated that tax reform would lead to 
Armageddon, I would like to point out that, for many, tax reform has 
brought about what Reagan called morning in America again. Proponents 
of the status quo and naysayers claimed that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 
would cost taxpayers. That is simply not the truth.
  Even modest increases in GDP growth caused by the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act will substantially contribute to a leveling off of the deficit. The 
Congressional Budget Office stated, for every one-tenth of 1 percent 
increase in GDP, nearly $270 billion in revenue is added over 10 years.
  Most importantly, hardworking American taxpayers will now keep more 
of their hard-earned cash. Estimates show that married couples taking 
advantage of the new standard deduction in the Fifth District of North 
Carolina may receive a tax cut to the tune of $1,834. That is no small 
sum.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that House Republicans kept our promise to 
bring about more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks in 2017, and 
I look forward to this continued success in 2018.

                          ____________________



