

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H581-H582]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. Roe 
             of Tennessee, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Jones, Mr. Russell, Mr. 
             Long, Mr. Norman, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Flores, Mr. 
             Latta, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Buck, Mr. 
             Biggs, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, and Mr. Perry):
       H.R. 4844. A bill to ensure that women seeking an abortion 
     receive an ultrasound and the opportunity to review the 
     ultrasound before giving informed consent to receive an 
     abortion; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. OLSON:
       H.R. 4845. A bill to provide that the Federal 
     Communications Commission and communications service 
     providers regulated by the Commission under the 
     Communications Act of 1934 shall not be subject to certain 
     provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
     and the National Historic Preservation Act with respect to 
     the construction, rebuilding, or hardening of communications 
     facilities following a major disaster or an emergency 
     declared by the President, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee):
       H.R. 4846. A bill to provide collective bargaining rights 
     for public safety officers employed by States or their 
     political subdivisions; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 4847. A bill to streamline the process for 
     consideration of applications for the placement of 
     communications facilities on certain Federal lands, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Agriculture, Natural Resources, and Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOHMERT:
       H.R. 4848. A bill to amend the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to eliminate automatic 
     increases for inflation from CBO baseline projections for 
     discretionary appropriations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. OLSON:
       H.R. 4849. A bill to require States to report information 
     on Medicaid payments to abortion providers; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida (for himself, Mr. 
             Smith of Texas, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Budd, and Mr. 
             Norman):
       H.R. 4850. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to alter the deadlines by which an application for asylum 
     must be made, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana (for himself, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. 
             Hollingsworth, Mr. Messer, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Visclosky, 
             Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Kennedy, and Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 4851. A bill to establish the Kennedy-King National 
     Historic Site in the State of Indiana, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. 
             Pittenger, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Faso, 
             Mr. Yoder, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Smucker, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Cole, and Mr. 
             Gottheimer):
       H.R. 4852. A bill to make continuing appropriations for 
     military pay in the event of a shutdown of the Federal 
     Government, to reduce the pay of Members of Congress during 
     periods in which such a shutdown is in effect, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, and in addition 
     to the Committees on House Administration, and Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BABIN (for himself, Mr. Weber of Texas, and Mr. 
             Higgins of Louisiana):
       H.R. 4853. A bill to require FERC to examine certain 
     hydropower licences; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CARTER of Texas (for himself, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Reichert, 
             Mr. Schiff, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, and Mr. Ratcliffe):
       H.R. 4854. A bill to amend the DNA Analysis Backlog 
     Elimination Act of 2000 to provide additional resources to 
     State and local prosecutors, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Ms. Pingree, Ms. Moore, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Polis, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Serrano, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Soto, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, and Mr. Lawson of Florida):
       H.R. 4855. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to provide an incentive for households participating in 
     the supplemental nutrition assistance program to purchase 
     certain nutritious fruits and vegetables that are beneficial 
     to good health; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself, Ms. Adams, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mrs.

[[Page H582]]

             Beatty, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Rush, Ms. Sanchez, 
             Mr. Serrano, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Velazquez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Clay, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Crist, and Mr. Carson of Indiana):
       H.R. 4856. A bill to direct the Joint Committee on the 
     Library to obtain a statue of Shirley Chisholm for placement 
     in the United States Capitol; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, 
             Mr. McKinley, Mr. Harper, and Mr. Palazzo):
       H.R. 4857. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to enhance the requirements for secure geological 
     storage of carbon dioxide for purposes of the carbon dioxide 
     sequestration credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 4858. A bill to clarify section 224 of the 
     Communications Act of 1934 as not limiting the ability of a 
     State to adopt a one touch make ready policy for pole 
     attachments, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, and Mr. Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 4859. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to allow certain payments made by public service employees to 
     qualify for public service repayment, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 4860. A bill to relocate the headquarters of the 
     Appalachian Regional Commission, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH:
       H.R. 4861. A bill to nullify certain guidance on deposit 
     advance products, to require the Federal banking agencies to 
     establish standards for short-term, small-dollar loans made 
     by insured depository institutions, to exempt insured 
     depository institutions and insured credit unions from the 
     payday lending rule of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 4862. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow section 529 education accounts to be used for 
     homeschooling expenses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 4863. A bill to establish a competitive bidding 
     process for the relocation of the headquarters of Executive 
     agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself and Mr. Gowdy):
       H.R. 4864. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     penalize unlawful flight to avoid prosecution into or from 
     Indian country; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H.R. 4865. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act 
     to establish a conservation practice-based pilot program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 4866. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to increase the Federal medical assistance percentage for 
     the District of Columbia under the Medicaid Program to 80 
     percent; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 4867. A bill to clarify the definitions of certain 
     terms relating to marriage under Federal law to prevent child 
     marriages, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 4868. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to conduct a special resource study of Fort Pillow 
     Historic State Park in Henning, Tennessee, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SABLAN:
       H.R. 4869. A bill to incentivize the hiring of United 
     States workers in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
     Islands, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             Hollingsworth, and Mr. Budd):
       H.R. 4870. A bill to prohibit the pay of Members of 
     Congress during periods in which a Government shutdown is in 
     effect, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. YARMUTH (for himself and Mr. Cohen):
       H.J. Res. 126. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States relating to 
     contributions and expenditures with respect to Federal 
     elections; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COFFMAN:
       H.J. Res. 127. A joint resolution making continuing 
     appropriations for military pay and for death gratuities and 
     related survivor benefits for survivors of deceased military 
     service members of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
     2018, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Appropriations.
           By Mr. BLUM (for himself, Mr. Visclosky, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Barton, and Mrs. Dingell):
       H. Con. Res. 99. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the 
     proclamation of independence of Czechoslovakia, the 25th 
     anniversary of the independence of the Czech Republic and the 
     Slovak Republic, and reaffirming the bonds of friendship and 
     cooperation between the United States and the Czech Republic 
     and the Slovak Republic; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H. Res. 705. A resolution Impeaching Donald John Trump, 
     President of the United States, of high misdemeanors.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Rush, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mr. Foster, and Mr. Moulton):
       H. Res. 706. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of a ``Women's Health Research Day''; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
       H. Res. 707. A resolution recognizing the growth and 
     transformation of the Republic of Korea and its significant 
     contributions to the international community; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



