

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2077]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 SENATE RESOLUTION 459--RECOGNIZING ``BLACK MATERNAL HEALTH WEEK'' TO 
  BRING NATIONAL ATTENTION TO THE MATERNAL HEALTH CARE CRISIS IN THE 
  BLACK COMMUNITY AND THE IMPORTANCE OF REDUCING THE RATE OF MATERNAL 
               MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY AMONG BLACK WOMEN

  Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Ms. Stabenow, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Murray, 
Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Warren, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Booker, Mr. 
Merkley, Mr. Wyden, and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted the following 
resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions:

                              S. Res. 459

       Whereas according to the Centers for Disease Control and 
     Prevention, Black mothers in the United States die at 3 to 4 
     times the rate of White mothers;
       Whereas Black women in the United States suffer from life-
     threatening pregnancy complications twice as often as White 
     women;
       Whereas United States maternal mortality rates are the 
     highest in the developed world and are increasing rapidly;
       Whereas the United States has the highest maternal 
     mortality rate among affluent countries because of the 
     disproportionate death rate of Black mothers;
       Whereas the premature delivery rate among Black women is 49 
     percent higher than the rate among all other women;
       Whereas Black women are twice as likely to suffer from 
     severe maternal morbidity than White women;
       Whereas high rates of maternal mortality among Black women 
     span across income and education levels, as well as 
     socioeconomic status;
       Whereas racial disparities exist across income and 
     education levels;
       Whereas structural racism, gender oppression, and social 
     determinants of health inequities experienced by Black women 
     in the United States significantly contribute to the 
     disproportionately high rates of maternal mortality and 
     morbidity among Black women;
       Whereas race and racism play an integral role in maternal 
     health outcomes, care, and policy;
       Whereas fair distribution of resources, especially with 
     regard to reproductive health care services and maternal 
     health programming, is critical to closing the maternal 
     health racial disparity gap; and
       Whereas an investment must be made in Black women's 
     maternity care and in policies that support and promote 
     affordable, comprehensive, and holistic maternal health care 
     that is free from gender and racial discrimination: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate recognizes--
       (1) that Black women are experiencing high, 
     disproportionate rates of maternal mortality and morbidity in 
     the United States;
       (2) that the alarmingly high rates of maternal mortality 
     among Black women is unacceptable;
       (3) that Congress must work toward ensuring that the Black 
     community has adequate housing, transportation equity, 
     nutritious food, clean water, environments free from toxins, 
     fair treatment within the criminal justice system, safety and 
     freedom from violence, a living wage, and equal economic 
     opportunity;
       (4) that in order to improve maternal health outcomes, 
     Congress must fully support and encourage policies grounded 
     in the human rights framework that addresses Black maternal 
     health inequity;
       (5) that Black women must be active participants in the 
     policy decisions that impact their lives;
       (6) that ``Black Maternal Health Week'' is an opportunity 
     to increase attention of the state of Black maternal health 
     in the United States, amplify the voices of Black women and 
     families, serve as a national platform for Black-women-led 
     entities and efforts on maternal health, and enhance 
     community organizing on Black maternal health; and
       (7) the significance of April 11 through 17, 2018, as 
     ``Black Maternal Health Week''.

                          ____________________



