

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1328-H1330]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           ISSUES OF THE DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from California (Mr. Garamendi) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the minority leader.
  Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleagues for 
reminding us of the enormously important work that was done for 
tomorrow's session here on the floor and here in the Capitol, where he 
will be lying in state.
  I recall very clearly the day that my wife and I met Reverend Graham 
in Sacramento when he was having one of his ministries there in the 
city. We attended, and it was an incredible experience. We met with him 
personally after the event. And like the millions and, indeed, billions 
of people that heard him speak, we, too, were moved.
  Earlier, when I learned of his passing, I said that, while he is no 
longer with us physically, his work remains with us. His speeches, his 
recordings, and his videos are all there for future generations and, 
indeed, for our generation. So I thank my colleagues for bringing to 
our attention what is a profoundly important event here in the Nation's 
Capitol when Reverend Billy Graham lies in state.
  Mr. Speaker, there are a couple of other things I would like to bring 
to the attention of the floor. One, fortunately, is not a death, but 
rather a retirement. This one is for Debbie Davis, the editor and 
assistant publisher of the Davis Enterprise, for her service to the 
Davis community and to congratulate her on her retirement.
  For over 38 years, Ms. Davis has helped unite and inform the Davis 
community through her work at the Davis Enterprise, the local paper. 
Her work expertise earned her a reputation as a respected journalist, 
and there is no doubt in my mind that her legacy will have a lasting 
impact on the Davis community.
  The breadth of Ms. Davis' accomplishment is in itself an achievement. 
Some of her most notable milestones include the development of the 2017 
centennial magazine that celebrated the businesses and leaders that 
built the Davis community, the ``Those Who Make Memories'' book, and 
over 10,700 editions have been used at the Davis Enterprise.
  I speak on behalf of the entire Davis community when I say ``thank 
you'' to Debbie Davis for her generous service to the community of 
Davis, California. We all wish her the best as she enjoys her well-
deserved retirement.
  If I might, Mr. Speaker, move on to other events, some of them events 
here in Washington, D.C., in the days ahead. If I might retrieve my 
chart, Mr. Speaker. Normally I would bring this out with me, but I 
wanted to cover the Billy Graham event. I think he might have enjoyed 
this particular saying from Franklin Delano Roosevelt. I use this 
whenever I start my presentations here on the floor because it reminds 
me of values, at least a value that I think ought to be basic to our 
work here in Congress. So allow me to repeat not for the first, but 
maybe for another dozen times:

       The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the 
     abundance of those who have much. It is whether we provide 
     enough for those who have too little.

  The test of our progress. It is interesting that there is so much we 
need to do, so much we need to do here in America, particularly for 
those who have too little. It is interesting to note what has actually 
happened over the last several years.
  Are we really making progress?
  Well, I think we ought to spend some moments talking about our 
infrastructure.
  Are we making progress?
  Well, no, not really. We once were the most advanced infrastructure--
highways, rail systems, transit systems, airports, maritime ports--in 
the world. We had great drinking water systems. You could come to 
America and drink water anywhere and not have to worry about the 
quality or the contamination of that water.
  But here it is from the American Society of Civil Engineers: 
aviation, we are ranked a D; bridges, a C; dams, a D; drinking water, a 
D; parks and recreation, a D; ports, a C; rail, we are doing okay; 
roads, a D--we see that every day when we travel back and forth.
  School systems--and we want to talk about safe schools; lots of talk 
as a result of the tragic shooting in Florida about making schools 
safe. Well, schools really rank in the D category. Whether they are 
safe or not, they are ranking as Ds.
  Transit is a D. Declining wastewater is a D.
  We are familiar with places around the Nation.

                              {time}  1930

  This bridge, about 6 years ago, this was a bridge that connected the 
United States to Canada. This was the Interstate 5 bridge, a road, 
Interstate highway from Vancouver, British Columbia, to Tijuana, 
Mexico. Infrastructure. The bridge collapsed.
  On the water side of life, I think most of us would be familiar that, 
1 year ago, the spillway at the Oroville Dam, the highest dam in the 
United States and quite possibly in the world, gave way during the 
heavy rains of the

[[Page H1329]]

2017 year, and we created the biggest waterfall in the world. It went 
on for some time.
  It also threatened the lives of over 200,000 people downstream that 
had less than 3 hours to evacuate; because had this spillway further 
eroded, a 30-foot wall of water would have descended upon those 
communities and the water would have been more than 50 feet deep within 
1 hour. Fortunately, the rain stopped; otherwise, who knows.
  So we have a need for infrastructure. Just 2 weeks ago, the President 
announced his great big infrastructure plan. Two hundred billion new 
dollars, $1.5 trillion of public and private investment beyond the 
Federal participation. Sounds good until you read the big print; not 
even the small print, but the big print.
  So what does the Trump infrastructure plan bring to us? Well, the 
$200 billion of Federal money, it is not new money; it is existing 
money, it is the reprogramming of existing money. In fact, it takes 
$168 billion from existing transportation programs, highways and 
transit, and repurposes it over to some new programs that are supposed 
to do the same thing. No new money; just money taken from an existing 
program that is working, underfunded to be sure, but working, and 
transferred over to a new program that the President can then put his 
gold letters, T-R-U-M-P, on it, and, wow, what a wonderful thing that 
has been done. Oh, yeah. Well, confusion and the like.
  It also paves the way; it doesn't pave the highways, but it does pave 
the way for Wall Street and foreign investors to set up toll roads on 
our interstate freeways. Well, there is a great idea. It slashes 
Federal investments and passes the buck to cash-starved States and 
local governments.
  You see, right now the Federal Government for highways and transit, 
about 80 percent of that money comes from the Federal Government, 20 
percent from the locals.
  In levies--I represent one of the most flood prone areas. I can put 
that picture of Oroville Dam back up. Seventy-five percent Federal, 25 
percent local. So what does the great Trump infrastructure plan do? It 
flips that over, and guess what? The Federal Government will pay 25 
percent for levies and the locals will pay 75 percent. Wow. That is 
helpful. Where are they going to get the money?
  For transit, 80 percent Federal, 20 percent--no, not in the Trump 
plan. It flips it over: 20 percent Federal, 80 percent local. Where are 
they to get the money? Big question.
  So where did the money go? Why is it that the President's big, new, 
fabulous, wonderful transportation/infrastructure program has no money, 
just existing money taken from existing programs and put into new 
labeled programs that are to accomplish the same thing but with less 
Federal support?
  So one might wonder, what happened here? Why is there no new Federal 
money? Why aren't all of those Ds supported by new Federal programs so 
that we have a robust infrastructure program for the United States, one 
in which men and women would be employed building the foundation for 
tomorrow's economy? Tens of thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands, 
millions of people, could be employed if the $1 trillion, $1.5 trillion 
that he talks about, were real money. It is not.
  Where did the money go? Well, I suppose some of you may have been 
listening when the President signed the legislation and then took his 
Air Force One jet to Florida, entered his resort at Mar-a-Lago, and 
announced to his guests: I just made you a whole lot richer.
  Well, indeed he did. One person that he made richer was this 
gentleman, who has said repeatedly over the last 2 years: I don't need 
more money; I am quite wealthy, thank you; don't do a tax cut that 
makes me even more wealthy. Warren Buffett.
  What did the tax cut do for Warren Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway? 
Well, it was a $29 billion Christmas gift.
  Mr. Speaker, the President was quite correct. He did make the rich 
even richer.
  I thank Mr. Buffett for being brutally honest and saying he doesn't 
need more money. He would undoubtedly look at what FDR said: ``The test 
of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those 
who have much.''
  Warren Buffett said this last line: ``It is whether we provide enough 
for those who have too little.''
  I thank Mr. Buffett. I don't know what he is going to do with the $29 
billion, but I know what we could have done with $29 billion. We could 
have repaired the bridges of America. We could have repaired the tens 
of thousands of dams across America that are at risk. That is what 
could have been done with the $29 billion that went to Mr. Buffett.
  And he wasn't the only one who benefited from those tax cuts. One of 
the Wall Street companies, Morgan Stanley, did an analysis of the 
corporate tax cuts, that about $1 trillion of the $1.5 trillion tax cut 
went to corporations.
  So what did the American corporations do with that $1 trillion 
windfall? Morgan Stanley, just this last week, reported that their 
analysis is that 62 percent of that $1 trillion windfall will be used 
by the corporations to buy other companies; mergers and acquisitions, 
about 19 percent; and 43 percent will go for buybacks of stock and 
dividends.
  All the talk about the employees benefiting. Well, let's see. About 
13 percent is headed for bonuses and raises. Just 17 percent of that $1 
trillion is expected to be used to increase the size of the business, 
not through mergers and acquisitions, which usually result in layoffs, 
not in new jobs, but rather in what are called savings, in other words, 
known as layoffs--just 17 percent.

  So where are the jobs? I will give you an example. Nine of the large 
pharmaceutical companies in America have already announced that they 
are going to spend $50 billion of that tax cut that they received in 
buybacks, not in creating new pharmaceuticals and drugs for such 
illnesses as Alzheimer's. In fact, Pfizer, one of the large 
pharmaceutical companies, the day that they announced that they were 
going to stop their research on Alzheimer's, decided that they would 
spend their money instead on buying back their stock.
  So thus far--we haven't finished all this; this is where they expect 
to go--American corporations have already announced $178 billion, 
nearly one-fifth of that $1 trillion tax cut, would be used to buy back 
stock. That is the largest amount ever reported in any single quarter 
in American history.
  Now, many folks here on the floor say: Oh, but look at what Walmart 
is doing; they are giving over $400 million of bonuses.
  Well, if you average that out among all of their workers, it is $190 
per worker. Now, that is not chump change, and that is certainly not 
crumbs. That is $190, and that is important, but the total tax cut to 
Walmart was $18 billion. The $400 million is 2.2 percent for bonuses. 
And so it goes.
  There is more. Boeing said it will spend $300 million on employees in 
increased wages or bonuses, and, at the same time, they will spend $18 
billion to buy back shares.
  Did I explain what a buyback of shares really does? Well, it reduces 
the number of shares that are in the market, and, therefore, 
simultaneously raises the price per share.
  And how are executive salaries and bonuses determined? By the share 
price. The share price goes up, bingo, more money for the corporate 
executives.
  So if you were given a huge $1 trillion windfall in reduced taxes, 
would you use that for capital investment, where the actual return to 
the corporation may take 3, 4, 5 years, or would you use it to buy back 
stock, which automatically will, in virtually every case, raise the 
share price and immediately reward the executives' bottom line salary? 
Not a tough decision. Or would you give it to your employees in bonuses 
and raises, when you could use it to buy back stock? Raise the share 
price, and, lo and behold, guess what? The corporate executive's pay 
increases, because his pay is based on the stock price. Pretty simple 
stuff.
  Did I mention Comcast laid off over 500 employees after reportedly 
saying that they would use their tax cuts to give a $1,000 year-end 
bonus? And at the same time, they announced a $5 billion stock buyback 
for 2018.
  It goes on and on.
  Apple, $38 billion reduction in taxes; Microsoft, $6.3 billion; 
Citibank, $22 billion reduction; Johnson & Johnson, $13 billion; 
Qualcomm, $5.3 billion.

[[Page H1330]]

  So if we wanted to repair the dams or the bridges, we would have to 
have money.
  Where did the money go? Well, it didn't go to the bridges, it didn't 
go to the roads. The great infrastructure plan from the President is 
simply a shell game, moving money from under this shell to under that 
shell, no new money, and making the local governments and State 
governments pay even more.
  And for those of us who represent California, Pennsylvania, New York, 
New Jersey, there is one more, and that is we get to pay taxes on taxes 
that we pay to the State and to the local governments.

                              {time}  1945

  Now, that is a change. When the first income tax law was written 
nearly a century ago--in fact, more than a century ago--they said that 
you would not pay taxes on the taxes that you paid, and so they allowed 
for the deduction of State and local taxes. But, hey, that changed. Our 
President said it is a wonderful gift. Well, it is not for California, 
not for New York, not for New Jersey.
  So where are we going to get the money? We are going to have to go 
back and look at this. We already know that, for every 1 percent 
reduction in the corporate tax rate, there is a $100 billion reduction 
in revenue to the Federal Government. We might want to look at that.
  I am going to wrap this up in just a few moments.
  We have been talking about a better deal for America for a long time. 
What we have from the Trump tax cut is a raw deal, a bad deal, a 
terrible deal for America. The Federal Treasury was gutted.
  Yes, there are benefits for the broad American public, but that is 
like 17 percent of the total tax cut goes to the broad American public: 
middle class, upper middle, and the bottom quartile of Americans. It is 
useful. It is certainly going to be helpful.
  But more than 80 percent went to American corporations, which, as I 
just showed, are not using it for their employees, not using it to 
build their capital infrastructure, their ability to manufacture more, 
but, rather, for those who already have a great deal of wealth: the 
stockholders of America, who happen not to be the bottom 80 percent.
  We need a better deal. We really need to invest in America. We need 
that infrastructure, not the phony infrastructure program that the 
President has proposed, but a real infrastructure with real money. And 
we need to make that infrastructure in America.
  And so make it in America, invest in America. It adds up for a better 
deal for America.
  My colleague, Al Green from Texas, has some important things to add 
to the discussion tonight on a different subject, but I just want to 
remind the public that, when we talk on the floor here, we talk about 
infrastructure, we talk about real concrete, steel, programs that 
actually build infrastructure. We talk about trying to collect 
resources so that we can pay for this. We talk about how we might 
engage in various financing programs so that we can, over time, build 
the solid foundation for economic growth.
  And as we do all of this, we are talking about a better deal for the 
American public, not the raw deal that this tax scam gave to Americans, 
not the kind of deal that The New York Times says: ``Well-Heeled 
Investors Reap the Republican Tax Cut Bonanza.''
  Mr. Speaker, I include this New York Times editorial, dated February 
25, 2018, in the Congressional Record.

                [From The New York Times, Feb. 25, 2018]

       Well-Heeled Investors Reap the Republican Tax Cut Bonanza

                        (By The Editorial Board)

       After President Trump signed the Republican tax cut into 
     law, companies put out cheery announcements that they were 
     giving workers bonuses because of their expected windfalls 
     from the tax reductions. The president and Republican 
     lawmakers quickly held up these news releases as vindication 
     for their argument that cutting the top federal corporate tax 
     rate to 21 percent, from 35 percent, would boost workers' 
     incomes even as it added $1.5 trillion to the debt that 
     future generations would have to pay off.
       Now corporate announcements and analyst reports confirm 
     what honest observers always said--this claim is pure 
     fantasy. As executives tell investors what they intend to do 
     with their tax savings and their spending plans are tabulated 
     into neat charts and graphs, the reports jibe with what most 
     experts said would happen: Companies are rewarding their 
     stockholders.
       Businesses are buying back shares, which creates demand for 
     the stocks, boosts share prices and benefits investors. Some 
     of the cash is going to increase dividends. And a chunk will 
     go to acquiring other businesses, creating larger 
     corporations that face less competition.
       In addition to benefiting investors, these maneuvers will 
     end up boosting the pay of top executives because their 
     compensation packages are often tied to the price of their 
     companies' stock. Finally, a small sliver of the money will 
     find its way into paychecks of rank-and-file employees, but 
     it won't be a big boost and will probably come in the form of 
     a temporary bonus, rather than a lasting raise.
       Morgan Stanley analysts estimated that 43 percent of 
     corporate tax savings would go to buybacks and dividends and 
     nearly 19 percent would help pay for mergers and 
     acquisitions. Just 17 percent would be used for capital 
     investment, and even a smaller share, 13 percent, would go 
     toward bonuses and raises.
       Other Wall Street analysts have issued similar reports. If 
     more evidence was needed, Axios reported that just nine 
     pharmaceutical companies have announced $50 billion in 
     buybacks since the tax law was passed.
       Mr. Trump might argue that it doesn't much matter that the 
     tax cuts will be a boon for investors because many Americans 
     own stocks. The president has recently touted the rising 
     value of 401(k) accounts as a benefit of the tax law. But 
     roughly half of all families own no stock, and most people 
     have holdings that are worth less than $5,000. Most stock 
     holdings, a whopping 84 percent, are in the hands of people 
     whose incomes put them in the top 10 percent of households.
       Republicans might further argue that none of this matters 
     because the tax law is becoming more popular as people learn 
     more about it. Indeed, a recent poll for The Times found that 
     the law now has more supporters than opponents. But this 
     swing in public sentiment might be less important than it 
     appears. Consider the results of a recent Politico/Morning 
     Consult poll that shows that just 25 percent of registered 
     voters said they had noticed an increase in their paycheck 
     because of lower tax withholding while 51 percent had not. 
     The poll also found that high-income people were more likely 
     to notice that their take-home pay had gone up. That's 
     because Republicans designed the law to principally benefit 
     wealthy families while offering crumbs to low-income and 
     middle class families.
       Those crumbs, by the way, disappear after a few years. 
     Further, many taxpayers in states like California, New Jersey 
     and New York will be hit with higher tax bills when they file 
     their 2018 tax returns and realize that they can now only 
     deduct up to $10,000 in state and local taxes.
       There was a legitimate argument for reforming the tax code 
     in a way that reduced the corporate tax rate, closed 
     loopholes and made the economy fairer and more productive. 
     But Republicans chose a plan that rewards the rich at the 
     expense of workers. They had to lie to make this scheme seem 
     legitimate. Now the true effects are coming to fruition.

  Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



