

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 56 (Monday, April 9, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2010]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING DEPUTY JACOB PICKETT

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and honor the 
extraordinary service and sacrifice of Boone County Deputy Jacob 
Pickett of Zionsville, IN. His life was characterized by selflessness, 
dedication to his community, and a deep love for his family and faith.
  Jake graduated from Brownsburg High School in 2002. He graduated from 
the Marion County Sheriff's Office Training Academy in 2010 and the 
Indiana Law Enforcement Academy in 2014. He was employed as a detention 
deputy with the Marion County Sheriff's Office for 3 years. After 
serving the Marion County Sheriff's Office, he served as a deputy at 
the Tipton County Sheriff's Department from 2013 to 2015. In 2015, he 
began his work in Boone County as a taser instructor, K-9 team leader, 
and a member of the Fraternal Order of Police No. 110. From the start, 
his colleagues say they knew he would be a great officer and that he 
was the one who would be there to help if anyone ever needed him.
  Jake grew up with a kind heart, always standing up for those in need. 
He was described by Rev. Steve Reeves, his little league coach and 
pastor who baptized him as a teenager, as someone who ``had a kindness 
about him. He wanted to do well.'' His selflessness carried over into 
adulthood; whether it was serving in uniform, organizing a Christmas 
card drive, or volunteering to rescue animals, he continuously gave 
back to his community. Ultimately, Jake put his life on the line to 
protect the community he loves, and for his service, we are forever 
grateful.
  The morning that he was killed, he was greeting students at Perry-
Worth Elementary with his sidekick K-9, a German Shepherd named Brik. 
Those who knew Jake best said his love for Brik was unwavering, and he 
extended that love to his family and those in the community he worked 
to protect.
  On Friday, March 2, 2018, Jake was fatally shot following a pursuit 
in Lebanon, IN. He was kept on life support for a few days, so that his 
life of service could continue through organ donation. After he was 
taken off life support, his heart was donated to a patient in need at 
St. Vincent Hospital in Indianapolis.
  A devoted and loving father and husband, he is survived by his wife, 
Jennifer Pickett, a teacher at White Lick Elementary School; his two 
sons; parents Marlin and Rebecca Pickett; sister Kristi M. Woo; niece 
Hannah N. Woo; parents-in-law Jon and Carol Lindstrom; brothers-in-law 
Jeremy Lindstrom and Christopher Lindstrom; his faithful K-9 partner 
Brik; and many other relatives and friends. Jake went above and beyond 
for his children, and it was well known that the happiest day of his 
life was when he became a father. He was often seen giving his sons 
rides around the yard on the lawnmower for fun, and he will be 
remembered by his loving spirit.
  Jake set an example for others and will be remembered for his love 
for his family, his faith in God, and his bravery. Let us remember and 
emulate the example this man set for us and honor his commitment to 
serving his fellow citizens.
  (At the request of Mr. Schumer, the following statement was ordered 
to be printed in the Record.)

                          ____________________



