

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1784-S1785]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE VERMONT STATE HOUSING AUTHORITY

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, for 50 years, the Vermont State Housing 
Authority, VSHA, has helped make available secure, safe, and affordable 
housing in my home State of Vermont.

[[Page S1785]]

Founded in 1968, the Vermont State Housing Authority provides thousands 
of Vermonters with the resources they need to find housing that works 
for them. As the first statewide housing authority in the Nation, VSHA 
was a pioneer in the field, as they built a successful program from the 
ground up without existing State models or best practices to replicate.
  Not only does VSHA help Vermonters of all ages and backgrounds find a 
home through Federal or State programs, they also provide critical 
support to those who need it most. The VSHA offers a variety of 
assistance and resources to the refugee population that has settled in 
Vermont, including free interpreter services and the promise of a 
friendly face ready to help navigate a new beginning in an unfamiliar 
culture. Further, VSHA staff make what can be a frightening transition 
more tailored, personal, and comfortable--helping new citizens 
acclimate and assimilate into their new communities.
  From connecting families in need with resources from the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development to developing innovative programs that 
inspire self-sufficiency and long-term independence, to promoting 
affordable housing for veterans, VSHA is involved in every community in 
Vermont. VSHA, though the Family Self-Sufficiency Program, helps 
families achieve economic stability and independence. As of the fall of 
last year, the program has graduated 194 people and has assisted a 
total of 153 Vermonters in becoming first-time homeowners through the 
homeownership program. While homeownership is a critical piece of 
building wealth and a hallmark of the American dream, it is often a far 
off dream for many families who struggle just to find a stable and 
affordable place to call home.
  As more and more families struggle to make ends meet, especially when 
affordable units are few and far in between and housing prices continue 
to rise, the team at VSHA, led by their executive director of more than 
30 years, Richard Williams, has worked hard to ensure that we work to 
meet the needs of our community. Though support for our most vulnerable 
populations is first and foremost in the minds of the VSHA team, it is 
clear that civic engagement and involvement plays a large role as well. 
The VSHA is involved in partnerships with dozens of Vermont nonprofit 
organizations, State and Federal agencies, and private sector 
businesses. Through their work rehabilitating and managing buildings, 
VSHA has revitalized our communities and downtowns one by one.
  The Vermont State Housing Authority has made a lasting difference in 
the lives of Vermonters across our great State. For that, I thank them. 
On behalf of all Vermonters, congratulations on 50 years of hard work, 
dedication, and outstanding commitment to those you serve.

                          ____________________



