

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1234-S1237]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Russell 
Vought, of Virginia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maine.
  (The remarks of Ms. Collins and Mr. Heinrich pertaining to the 
introduction of S. 2458 are printed in today's Record under 
``Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions.'')
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.


                     Remembering Ursula K. Le Guin

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the extraordinary 
life and work of one of Oregon's finest, Ursula K. Le Guin, who, after 
a long life, passed away in my hometown of Portland on January 22 at 
the age of 88.
  You would have a tough time overstating Mrs. Le Guin's impact on 
American literature, particularly on the genres of fantasy and science 
fiction. She didn't invent science fiction or fantasy literature, but 
what she did, in true Oregon fashion, is redefine them.
  Millions of school children in Oregon and around the world know her 
best as the author of the unforgettable Earthsea series. She also wrote 
essays, poetry, and short stories throughout her life. To the end, she 
fiercely resisted the constant attempts to pigeonhole her as a sci-fi 
author.
  Over five decades, she upended conventions, shattered ceilings, and 
inspired generations of readers and authors. She is going to be missed, 
even as her legacy lives on.
  Ursula Le Guin was born Ursula Kroeber on October 21, 1921, in 
Berkeley, CA. Her parents were both successful anthropologists who 
encouraged their kids to think and to question. Exposed to mythology 
and science fiction at an early age, she soon grew tired of what she 
would later describe as White men and soldiers going forth and 
conquering the universe.
  A shy young woman, she escaped the anxieties of adolescence by 
reading authors like Austen, Shelley, and Tolstoy in her local public 
library. She went on to Radcliffe College, graduating Phi Beta Kappa in 
1951. She earned a master's degree from Columbia University the 
following year and won a prestigious Fulbright scholarship to continue 
her studies in Paris.
  She met fellow Fulbright scholar Charles Le Guin on her way there, 
and they were married shortly thereafter.
  The pair returned to the United States and ultimately settled in 
Oregon in the late 1950s, when her husband took a job at Portland State 
University. She focused on the couple's three children and on her 
writing, returning to science fiction with ``Rocannon's World'' in 
1966. Two years later, she published ``A Wizard of Earthsea,'' the 
first in a series of highly acclaimed fantasy novels that have remained 
in print to the delight of millions.
  I can't imagine it is an easy feat for any author to create an entire 
universe that sticks in the minds of readers for generations. In 
building Earthsea, Mrs. Le Guin joined that elite group of fiction 
writers, like Tolkien and C.S. Lewis, who have done just that.
  More impressively, she used her writing to push back against social 
injustices and social constraints. She wrote about environmental 
destruction, about feminism and gender inequality, about racism, about 
war and peace. She wrote about women protagonists and about non-White 
heroes when they were even less commonly highlighted than they are 
today. She wrote about multidimensional characters and others who 
sought to better themselves and their societies rather than bend others 
to their will.
  The more Mrs. Le Guin wrote, the more people would read, and the more 
the awards started to pile up. She racked up awards in the course of 
her career like few authors have--multiple Hugo, Nebula, and Locus 
Awards, a National Book Award, a Newbery Medal, and a Pushcart Prize. 
In 1977, she was shortlisted for the Pulitzer Prize.
  She twice won the Hugo and Nebula Awards in the same year, for 1969's 
``The Left Hand of Darkness'' and in 1974 for ``The Dispossessed.''
  I would be here until next week if I tried to list all of her 
achievements, but because we have a rule in the Wyden household against 
filibustering friends, let me just say that in 2000, the Library of 
Congress made official what all of Oregon had long known. It declared 
that Ursula Le Guin was a ``Living Legend'' for her contributions to 
American literature.
  The fact is, we love our bookstores, and I very often kid Michael 
Powell and my wife Nancy that they are the LeBron James and Damian 
Lillard of bookstores. The fact is, Mrs. Le Guin has been in demand in 
bookstores and libraries for decades, and she has always been sharing 
that wisdom in her books with visitors near and far. Thanks to her 
example and her influence, generations of women writers have blazed new 
trails and defied old dogmas.

  As a dad who knows full well the importance of reading in a child's 
life, this is really a special honor today to be able to stand before 
this distinguished body and remember Ursula K. Le Guin, her life and 
her legacy. Her pioneering writing is going to continue to make readers 
challenge their conceptions and contemplate their role in this 
enormously vast universe for decades to come. Her long career's worth 
of great works will be treasured far into the future. I especially 
appreciate the opportunity to recognize the extraordinary work of a 
woman who did so much to promote writing and attract young readers at 
home in Oregon and the chance to have been able to recognize Ursula Le 
Guin today before the U.S. Senate.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for 
up to 20 minutes as in morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                             Climate Change

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I am here for my 198th ``Time to Wake 
Up'' speech with my increasingly dog-eared and beaten chart.
  My last two speeches focused on, shall we say, the peculiar role two 
of this country's largest trade associations play on climate change. 
They have dozens and dozens of member companies that support action on 
climate change. Renewable energy now provides more jobs than fossil 
fuels and lots of American manufacturing. Yet the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers spend millions 
and millions of dollars lobbying Congress against climate action, 
against renewables, and in favor of the fossil fuel industry. Go 
figure.
  In 2016, Senator Warren and I surveyed the 108 companies on the 
chamber of commerce's board, and we couldn't find a single one that 
would endorse the chamber's anti-climate lobbying--not one. Many of 
these companies had very public pro-climate positions. None said they 
had even been consulted by the chamber about the chamber's anti-climate 
crusade.
  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce's war on climate action isn't just in 
lobbying Congress. It also spends tens of millions of dollars in 
elections, using political attack ads to sink pro-climate candidates. 
So I asked in my last speeches: Why? Why does the chamber and NAM 
advance the special interests of the fossil fuel industry, opposing 
climate action, ignoring their own pro-climate members, and turning 
their backs on the whole renewable energy and green technology economy? 
Why, indeed.
  Well, today I would like to talk about a fossil fuel trade 
association--the American Petroleum Institute,

[[Page S1235]]

API. API is a slightly different beast than the chamber and NAM. It 
represents the oil and gas industry. You wouldn't expect it to care 
about renewable energy or green technology. API's policy positions 
should align with the big oil companies it represents, but it gets 
complicated. It gets complicated because the big oil companies all 
claim to support action on climate change. Here is what ExxonMobil 
claims: ``The risk of climate change is clear and the risk warrants 
action.''
  In 2009, then-Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson said the company supported a 
price on carbon. That is supposedly ExxonMobil's position today.
  Here is Shell on carbon pricing: ``The transition to low-carbon 
solutions is best underpinned by meaningful government-led carbon 
`pricing' mechanisms.''
  On the Paris Agreement, Exxon publicly supported the Paris Agreement, 
as did Chevron, as did Shell, as did BP. In addition, BP and Shell 
signed on to an initiative to eliminate methane flaring.
  So summing up, all of the major oil companies supported the Paris 
Agreement. Three out of four, including ExxonMobil--the big kahuna--
publicly support putting a price on carbon emissions, and two of them 
even support eliminating methane flaring.
  So where is the American Petroleum Institute on these policies? Let's 
start with the Paris Agreement. API funds a group called the American 
Council on Capital Formation, which, along with the Chamber of 
Commerce, funded the debunked study claiming that the Paris Agreement 
would cause massive job losses and huge costs. This debunked report was 
cited by President Trump as justification for withdrawing from the 
Paris accord. So API funded the report used as a basis for withdrawal--
but wait. It gets better. The authors of this API-funded study are the 
same two characters API hired way back in 1997 and 1998 to write 
similar reports critical of the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol, of 
course, was violently opposed in the Senate by the fossil fuel industry 
and API.
  So here we are 20 years after Kyoto, and API used almost exactly the 
same playbook--even the same personnel--against the Paris Agreement 
that they had used against the Kyoto accord, except that this time API 
paid for the report through a front group to hide API's hand in 
torpedoing the Paris Agreement. How do you relate that to the stated 
position of the four oil majors for the Paris Agreement? You would have 
to ask API to explain.
  So now let's look at API's position on carbon pricing, which three 
out of those four oil majors say they support. API's President has 
claimed that his organization doesn't have an official position on 
carbon pricing, but if you take a look at API's website, it is loaded 
with comments critical of putting a price on carbon, and API also 
funded yet another study claiming that a price on carbon emissions 
would be bad for the economy.
  On the issue of methane flaring, API out front led the charge against 
Department of the Interior and Environmental Protection Agency rules. 
Its lobbying campaign has paid off, as two of Trump's fossil fuel 
stooges, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and EPA Administrator Scott 
Pruitt, are busily trying to dismantle these rules. Luckily, they are 
not very bright about it, and courts keep upending their schemes.
  Let's look at the lobbying. Big Oil money provides much of API's 
power in the Halls of Congress. API has spent over $100 million 
lobbying the Federal Government, and apparently its lobbying goes 
against the wishes as stated by its biggest clients, the four oil 
majors. If you look, there is a big bump up in 2009 and here through 
2016--the Obama years--when they wanted to go in and stop all kinds of 
progress on climate change.
  In this building, we all know perfectly well that API is not here 
lobbying for a price on carbon. We know perfectly well that if a 
Republican were to say, ``I am for a price on carbon,'' or sign on to a 
bill, they would probably get a visit from API saying, ``Whoa, not so 
fast there, partner.'' We know perfectly well that they are not in this 
building lobbying for the Paris accord.
  So why the discrepancy? Is it possible that all of this money--$100 
million--is being thrown around without the approval of the big oil 
companies? Has the American Petroleum Institute sort of gone off on its 
own, off the leash, free range, running away from the oil companies? It 
is a puzzlement, this vast gulf between the pro-climate policies the 
oil majors say they support and the anti-climate policies the API 
lobbyists support.
  I said one possibility is, Big Oil doesn't know how its lobbying 
money is being spent. Maybe those CEOs have lost control of their own 
trade association and don't even know it. I mean, after all, around 
here, who pays attention to their own lobbying operation, anyway? Maybe 
the $100 million is such chump change to the big oil companies that 
they have just lost track of it, like we might lose change in our couch 
cushions.

  Maybe--cover your ears, young pages, because I may say something 
shocking here--maybe it is a scam. It is totally shocking that a big 
corporation will say one thing and do another. What a concept, but it 
is a concept that works out great for Big Oil. The Big Oil CEOs get to 
go to cocktail parties in Davos or on Fifth Avenue. They get to go to 
international conferences, and with all their sophisticated friends, 
they get to say: Hey, we are not a bunch of science-hating, heads-in-
the-sand climate deniers. We have sensible climate policies.
  At the same time, they can send their lobbying goons out to make sure 
no one in Congress takes that ``sensible climate policies'' nonsense 
seriously. It is great. Have your front group do your dirty work for 
you, fill your websites with happy assurances, while you let API loose 
on Washington to crush any pro-climate policies that might actually 
reduce carbon emissions and threaten your bottom line.
  Hypocrisy? Yes, but then hypocrisy is famously the tribute vice pays 
to virtue. I suppose it is at least a start. It is a sign that we have 
reached the point where Big Oil recognizes the need to try to at least 
look virtuous. That is a start, but it still leaves us with this huge 
disconnect between the pro-climate policies the big oil companies claim 
to support and their American Petroleum Institute's relentless anti-
climate lobbying.
  Remember, throughout the oil industry's decades-long campaign against 
climate action, they knew all along. Exxon knew decades ago about the 
effects of carbon pollution, but they worked through an elaborate web 
of front groups to propagate doubt and denial about the science they 
knew.
  Shell knew too. In 1991, Shell even produced a documentary warning 
about the serious threat climate change posed to the future of 
civilization. Despite acknowledging this threat, Shell, like Exxon, 
continued to fund API and other front groups that sought to mislead the 
public about climate change and opposed climate action here in 
Congress.
  Exxon's trade group--this American Petroleum Institute--also knew. 
They knew of the reality of climate change. They knew it was caused by 
carbon emissions from fossil fuels, and they knew of the danger it 
poses. Way back in 1959--almost 60 years ago--API was warned by an 
eminent scientist that if we kept burning fossil fuels, we would 
increase the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Back in 
1959, they were warned. The prediction they received was that it would 
warm the atmosphere, melt the icecaps, and submerge coastal cities and 
towns, as we are beginning to see along the Florida coastline right 
now. That was the prediction in 1959.
  In 1959, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere was 
316 parts per million. Then, in 1968, a group of scientists API had 
itself commissioned warned API that significant temperature changes 
could occur by the year 2000 and that, ultimately, potential damage to 
the environment could be severe. By 1968, the atmosphere concentration 
of CO2 was up to 323 parts per million.
  In 1980, scientists hired by API again warned API that carbon 
emissions from burning fossil fuels were likely to have catastrophic 
effects. By 1980, the atmospheric concentration of CO2 was 
339. In 1983, API disbanded the scientific working group it had created 
to study global warming. Apparently, API didn't like what it was 
hearing so, in 1983, they shut it off. There is a legal term for when 
you are on notice but

[[Page S1236]]

then just turn away; it is called ``willful ignorance.'' By 1983, the 
atmospheric concentration of CO2 was 343 parts per million.
  Then came 1999, when James Hansen's famous Senate testimony 
threatened API's willful ignorance scheme. So API and its Big Oil 
members founded a front group with the misleading name Global Climate 
Coalition. What is it with these front groups and these people, anyway? 
Why is it always these front groups? Global Climate Coalition began to 
spread falsehoods and disinformation about climate science, even though 
in 1989 they knew. In 1989, they had known for 30 years, since that 
first report in 1959, and by 1989 the atmospheric concentration was 353 
parts per million.
  In 1993, API hired one of the same men who wrote those phony Kyoto 
and Paris reports that I mentioned to write a report attacking 
President Clinton's so-called Btu tax on fuel sources. In 1993, the 
CO2 concentration in the atmosphere was up to 357 parts per 
million. In 1998, API did that report attacking the Kyoto Protocol. It 
also commissioned what it called its Global Climate Science 
Communications Plan, a plan designed to mislead Americans about climate 
science. By 1998, the atmospheric concentration of CO2 was 
367 parts per million.
  In 2009, API fought and killed the Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade 
legislation that would have controlled carbon emissions. By 2009, the 
atmospheric concentration of CO2 was 387 parts per million.
  Now here we are in 2018. API is still fighting climate action. The 
concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is now 407 parts per 
million, almost 30 percent higher than it was when API probably first 
learned what climate science meant. As we have kept dumping carbon 
pollution into the atmosphere, temperatures and sea levels have indeed 
steadily risen--just as API was told they would. They knew, but they 
lied.
  For decades, they lied on a massive industrial scale. They lied 
through phony science. They lied through phony front groups and bogus 
studies. They lied through talk shows. They lied through rightwing 
media. They lied through AstroTurf, and well-paid PR firms. They lied 
for decades, and now the American people have to pay the price of 
climate change to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars.
  So, from their point of view, what the heck? After decades of lying 
about climate change, what is a little discrepancy now between what Big 
Oil CEOs say and what Big Oil lobbyists do? The industry's 
sophisticated and expensive disinformation and lobbying campaign has 
blockaded climate action in this country for more than half a century. 
When you have been lying that long, maybe it is a hard habit to break.
  Looking back at this whole scam, I guess API and its members actually 
see it as a win--nearly 60 years of industry profits they protected 
behind the barricade of lies, but at what price to our country? At what 
price to Americans whose lives have already, in many cases, been 
upended by climate change? At what price to people around the world who 
will suffer the effects of climate change and one day want an answer 
about why America, through all this period, let this take place--why 
America let them down.
  The time for deception, the time for front groups, for 
misinformation, for inaction is over. API and its fossil fuel allies 
over at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and National Association of 
Manufacturers have blocked climate action in Congress long enough. Look 
at the price we paid to allow the fossil fuel lobby to dictate climate 
policy in this great body. Four hundred seven parts per million is a 
measurement, and it is a measurement unprecedented in the full span of 
human history on this planet.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Rubio). The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                         Indian Health Service

  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I rise today to call on President Trump to 
nominate a Director for the Indian Health Service.
  There are many critical issues facing Indian Country--economic 
development, infrastructure, protection of Native lands, respect for 
Tribal governments--and after years and years of broken promises, 
discrimination, and neglect, Washington owes Tribes a fighting chance 
to build stronger communities and a brighter future.
  The Federal Indian trust responsibility means that Washington has a 
basic legal obligation to the Tribes. Washington also has a fundamental 
moral obligation, and that starts with basic healthcare.
  American Indians have treaty rights to healthcare from the Federal 
Government, but the U.S. Government cannot fulfill our treaty 
obligations if key posts, such as the Director of IHS, lay vacant for 
years.
  The IHS is a big deal. It is the primary Federal healthcare provider 
for American Indians and Alaska Natives. It serves 2.2 million people 
spread across 36 States. It has a budget of nearly $5 billion annually. 
The IHS provides care through more than 660 clinics, hospitals, and 
health stations on or near reservations, many of them in remote and 
rural locations located hours away from other health facilities. It 
serves more than 13 million outpatient visitors a year.
  The doctors, nurses, and other healthcare providers at IHS hospitals 
and clinics do everything from delivering babies, to providing dental 
services, to fighting the opioid crisis.
  Right now, more than a year into President Trump's term, there is 
still no permanent leader at the Indian Health Service. Two weeks ago, 
the nomination for IHS Director was withdrawn, and there hasn't been a 
Senate-confirmed Director for years. This leadership vacuum creates a 
serious problem. The IHS cannot engage in long-term planning without a 
permanent Director at the helm. It cannot officially fix problems at 
hospitals that failed inspections and where Medicare and Medicaid 
funding is in jeopardy. It cannot move as decisively to ensure that IHS 
facilities stay open. It cannot implement agency-wide standards for 
quality of care, as the Government Accountability Office has 
recommended. The IHS cannot prioritize competing issues, solve serious 
and longstanding problems, or work through how to meet multiple goals 
more effectively.
  Its relationship with other Federal agencies is weakened without a 
stable leader--critical relationships with the Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services, the Office of Management and Budget, the Substance 
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, and the rest of the 
Department of Health and Human Services. It cannot ensure that programs 
like the Special Diabetes Program for Indians, which has created real, 
positive outcomes, is implemented as well as possible. The IHS cannot 
work out a direction for the Service and hold a single stable leader 
accountable for doing a good job.

  The IHS faces serious challenges that require the attention of a 
permanent, dedicated Director. The agency is underfunded and has been 
underfunded for a long time. As a result, its facilities often lack 
medical equipment that many Americans take for granted when they visit 
a clinic or a hospital, like an MRI machine or a functioning operating 
room. A 2016 report by the inspector general of the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services found that IHS hospital administrators have 
had difficulty recruiting and retaining critical staff. Aging hospital 
buildings and outdated equipment also raise concerns about patient 
safety. The inspector general cites concerns about corroded pipes 
leaking sewage into the OR and not being able to find replacement parts 
to fix old equipment the hospitals are relying on. Doctors and nurses 
should be able to focus on helping their patients get well, not on 
whether the building is habitable and basic facilities are available.
  There are also serious staffing shortages. At its Great Plains 
facilities, for example, IHS vacancy rates have reached 37 percent. 
Compare that to my home State of Massachusetts, where only 6 percent of 
nursing jobs were vacant in 2015.
  Tribal leaders are understandably concerned about the direction of an

[[Page S1237]]

agency that plays such a vital role in their communities. Here is what 
I heard from Chairwoman Cheryl Andrews-Maltais, of the Wampanoag Tribe 
of Gay Head--the Aquinnah--in Massachusetts: ``This vacancy has created 
significant instability and negatively affects the already burdened IHS 
system.'' She added: ``Not only is it a failure on the part of the 
Federal Government to not adequately fund healthcare for Indians; the 
failure to appoint someone to lead this critical service area is 
considered by many Tribes as gross negligence.'' The chairwoman says 
that the United States is failing to keep its word and failing to 
fulfill its ``solemn responsibility'' to the Tribes. I agree with the 
chairwoman.
  Healthcare is a basic human right, and everyone in this country 
deserves access to quality, affordable healthcare. But the stakes are 
particularly high for Native people.
  An American Indian or Alaska Native baby born today has a life 
expectancy that is almost 4\1/2\ years shorter than the U.S. average. 
These little babies are also more likely to die before they ever reach 
their first birthday. Native infant mortality is about 25 percent 
higher than for the U.S. as a whole.
  Chronic diseases like diabetes and heart disease hit Native Americans 
harder too. For instance, American Indians and Alaska Natives die from 
diabetes at a rate that is three times higher than that of the entire 
American population.
  Mental health and addiction issues are also a very big concern. The 
opioid epidemic has devastated communities all over our country, but it 
is a particularly virulent problem for Native Americans, who have the 
highest per capita rates of opioid overdoses in the country.
  Similarly, the alcohol-related death rate for Native Americans is 
about 500 percent higher than for the rest of the population.
  Suicide rates are about 70 percent higher.
  Everyone struggling with addiction deserves access to high-quality 
treatment, no matter who they are or where they live. That is the only 
way we are going to make progress in tackling this crisis. But right 
now, in a place where the need is great, the Federal Government is 
failing to provide adequate care.
  With so much need, investing in improving the IHS should be a top 
priority for Washington. I am glad that the Trump administration's 
latest budget for the IHS includes a funding increase. Still, this 
government needs to do more--much more. A Senate-confirmed Director can 
serve as the advocate the IHS needs in order to get the resources it 
deserves. In fact, Federal law explicitly says that advocating good 
Indian health policy is one of the Director's job responsibilities. We 
should be doing that job.
  We need a good person in this job, which means the nominee must be 
thoroughly vetted. But that is not an excuse for more delay or for the 
White House to drag its feet. It needs to work with the Tribes to find 
the right person for the job and then submit the nomination quickly.
  The person who heads up the IHS should be knowledgeable and should 
have a vision for how to deliver better healthcare to Native Americans. 
The person should have the determination and commitment to push 
Congress to meet its treaty obligations in providing healthcare to 
Native communities.
  The Trump administration doesn't have a stellar record when it comes 
to nominating the right people for important jobs. I often strongly 
disagree with the President's picks. But leaving hundreds of critical 
posts across our government vacant, including the IHS Director, has a 
devastating effect all its own.
  It wasn't until just 2 weeks ago that President Trump finally named a 
nominee to be Commissioner of the Administration for Native Americans.
  Several offices in the Federal bureaucracy have an important role in 
running important programs for Tribes, and the President hasn't 
nominated heads for some of those offices--for instance, the Director 
of the Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women, which 
administers key grant programs for Tribal programs to combat domestic 
violence and sexual assault, and the Assistant Secretary of the 
Employment and Training Administration in the Department of Labor, 
which provides workforce innovation and opportunity grants to Tribes 
and Tribal organizations. These vacancies hit Native communities hard, 
and they represent one more broken promise to Native people.
  There is no excuse for delay. I urge President Trump to move quickly 
to consult with Tribes and to submit a nomination for IHS Director. The 
Native community should not have to wait any longer.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



