

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 6 (Wednesday, January 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S137]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        REMEMBERING CLIFF EVERTS

 Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to 
remember and pay tribute to a pioneer of Alaska aviation, Cliff Everts, 
who passed away in December at the age of 95. One of the greatest 
compliments you can pay to a longtime Alaskan is to refer to that 
individual as a pioneer. Yes, Cliff was a pioneer, but that understates 
the reverence with which he is held in Alaska's aviation community. He 
is indeed an icon of Alaska aviation.
  Place yourself in a remote Alaskan village in the dead of winter. The 
outdoor temperature is minus 25 degrees, and the village is running 
short of fuel. Imagine the sound of a fuel plane landing on your 
village's gravel runway, delivering thousands of gallons of fuel needed 
to sustain daily life in the bush and power remote work sites. 
Deliveries such as this make life in rural Alaska possible. This is the 
legacy of Cliff Everts.
  Originally born in New York, Cliff's passion for flying began at a 
young age. He took his first flight at 12 years old. As a teenager, he 
delivered newspapers to pay for his flying lessons. Cliff trained on a 
Taylorcraft, a high-winged, two-seater aircraft, and was soloing within 
just 6 months.
  Later Cliff joined the Civilian Pilot Training Program, supporting 
wartime efforts during World War II. It was not long thereafter that he 
made the decision to leave New York, to accept a position flying as a 
copilot for Alaska Star Airlines in Anchorage. Alaska Star Airlines was 
a predecessor of today's Alaska Airlines.
  Having grown to love Alaska, Everts embraced the pioneer spirit and 
accepted another position flying for Wien Airlines in Fairbanks. He 
continued to fly for Wien Airlines for 35 years, logging over 30,000 
hours of flight time. His flights carried mail, cargo, and passengers 
throughout the entire State.
  While Cliff Everts was a pilot by trade, he was also a very savvy 
entrepreneur and was well known for his many business ventures, but he 
is best known for Everts Air Fuel. Cliff started this business in the 
1980s flying a C-46. The C-46 is a World War II era high-altitude, 
multiengine aircraft. He quickly built the fleet, running his business 
on the philosophy that providing for the unique needs of Alaskans can 
be done both efficiently and affordably by Alaskans.
  Cliff's son, Robert, began his own aviation business called Everts 
Air Cargo. Between Everts Air Cargo and Everts Air Fuel, the pair owned 
21 airplanes. I understand that there are six C-46 aircraft remaining 
in revenue service. The Everts enterprises fly four of the six, and 
that is a testament to how well they treat their equipment. They are 
also known for treating their people exceptionally well.
  Alaska was good to Cliff Everts. Cliff was great to Alaska. In 
recognition of his achievements, Cliff amassed numerous awards and 
recognitions. In 2007, Cliff received the Federal Aviation 
Administration's Master Pilot Award. In 2011, the general aviation side 
of Fairbanks International Airport, what we call ``East Ramp,'' was 
dedicated in Cliff's honor. In 2012, the Alaska Air Carriers 
Association designated Cliff as an ``Aviation Legend.'' Cliff was also 
inducted into the Alaska Aviation Hall of Fame. He holds the Alaska 
Aviation Entrepreneur Award. All appropriate recognition for a man best 
known for these words, ``Flying has been my life, and I can't see joy 
in doing anything else.''
  On Saturday, January 13, Alaskans from all walks of life will come 
together in Fairbanks to celebrate the life of Cliff Everts. Cliff's 
friends and admirers will be joined by his wife Betty and their large 
family. On behalf of my Senate colleagues, let me take this opportunity 
to share our condolences with Betty and the family and to thank Cliff 
Everts for his outstanding life of service to aviation and 
Alaska.

                          ____________________



