

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1541-H1543]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mr. Biggs, Mr. 
             Griffith, Mr. Barr, Mr.

[[Page H1542]]

             Barton, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Burgess, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Culberson, Mrs. Black, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Faso, Mr. Hill, 
             Mr. Gallagher, Mrs. Handel, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Issa, 
             Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. Buck, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Messer, Mr. Brooks of 
             Alabama, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Schweikert, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Yoder, Mr. 
             Harper, Mr. Lance, Mr. Allen, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, and Ms. Herrera Beutler):
       H.R. 5247. A bill to authorize the use of eligible 
     investigational drugs by eligible patients who have been 
     diagnosed with a stage of a disease or condition in which 
     there is reasonable likelihood that death will occur within a 
     matter of months, or with another eligible illness, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WEBSTER of Florida (for himself, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Posey, Mr. Jones, Mr. Clay, Mr. Soto, 
             and Mr. Bilirakis):
       H.R. 5248. A bill to amend and enhance the High Seas 
     Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act to improve the 
     conservation of sharks; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Takano, 
             and Mr. Ruppersberger):
       H.R. 5249. A bill to require the Secretary of Agriculture 
     to submit a report to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs on 
     the use of a Federal standard of identity for olive oil, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 5250. A bill to reauthorize the Rural Economic Area 
     Partnership Zones Program through fiscal year 2023; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. TITUS:
       H.R. 5251. A bill to make demonstration grants to eligible 
     local educational agencies or consortia of eligible local 
     educational agencies for the purpose of increasing the 
     numbers of school nurses in public elementary schools and 
     secondary schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Upton, and Mr. 
             Bishop of Michigan):
       H.R. 5252. A bill to amend title 36, United States Code, to 
     authorize a grant to protect young athletes from abuse, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD (for himself and Mr. Cartwright):
       H.R. 5253. A bill to amend section 552(h) of title 5, 
     United States Code, to require agencies provide records to 
     the Director of the Office of Government Information 
     Services; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. BUDD:
       H.R. 5254. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to conduct a study on the feasibility of 
     expanding eligibility for enrollment in Medicare Advantage 
     plans to individuals enrolled under the Medicaid program or 
     enrolled under a group health plan; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
       H.R. 5255. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish a Department of Homeland Security Reserve 
     Service, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. CRAWFORD (for himself and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 5256. A bill to direct the Attorney General to acquire 
     data, for each calendar year, about sexual offenses, 
     including rape, that occur aboard any mode of transportation 
     over which the Federal government exercises jurisdiction; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. DEMINGS (for herself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi):
       H.R. 5257. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to prohibit the expenditure of certain grant funds to 
     purchase firearms, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER:
       H.R. 5258. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand eligibility to receive refundable tax credits 
     for coverage under a qualified health plan; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Mr. Katko, Mr. Young of 
             Iowa, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, 
             Mr. Pocan, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Faso, and Mr. Nolan):
       H.R. 5259. A bill to amend the Food, Conservation, and 
     Energy Act of 2008 to reauthorize the farm and ranch stress 
     assistance network, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
       H.R. 5260. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     direct the Secretary of Energy to carry out demonstration 
     projects relating to advanced nuclear reactor technologies to 
     support domestic energy needs; to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 5261. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for regional centers of excellence in substance use 
     disorder education, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself 
             and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 5262. A bill to redesignate the Hudson River Valley 
     National Heritage Area as the Maurice D. Hinchey Hudson River 
     Valley National Heritage Area, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself 
             and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 5263. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 40 Fulton Street in 
     Middletown, New York, as the ``Benjamin A. Gilman Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. McEACHIN (for himself, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Johnson 
             of Georgia, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Cartwright, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 5264. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior, 
     in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency, provide grants to States to facilitate the 
     acquisition of land, water, and interests therein, made to 
     substantially improve, preserve, or maintain water quality 
     for an area in perpetuity, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 5265. A bill to amend the Religious Freedom 
     Restoration Act of 1993 to eliminate the applicability of 
     such Act to the District of Columbia; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROSS (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. David Scott 
             of Georgia, and Mrs. Wagner):
       H.R. 5266. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial 
     Protection Act of 2010 to make the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection an independent Financial Product Safety 
     Commission, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California):
       H.R. 5267. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     clarify the process for denying, revoking, or suspending a 
     registration to manufacture, distribute, or dispense a 
     controlled substance, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Mr. Pocan):
       H. Con. Res. 114. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 
     contributions of the public elementary schools and secondary 
     schools in the United States as an investment in our 
     country's future and expresses the position of Congress that 
     public funds should be spent to strengthen public elementary 
     and secondary schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. EVANS (for himself and Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H. Res. 771. A resolution honoring and recognizing the 40th 
     anniversary of Cheyney University's historic, momentous, and 
     epic 1978 NCAA Division II Basketball Championship win; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself and Mr. Gohmert):
       H. Res. 772. A resolution condemning Louis Farrakhan for 
     promoting ideas that create animosity and anger toward Jewish 
     Americans and the Jewish religion; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. DENHAM (for himself, Mr. Upton, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Barton, Mr. 
             Coffman, Mr. Valadao, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mrs. Love, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. Mast, Mr. Shuster, 
             Mr. Knight, Mr. Rouzer, and Mr. Katko):
       H. Res. 774. A resolution providing for consideration of 
     the bill (H.R. 4760) to amend the immigration laws and the 
     homeland security laws, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Mr. Rutherford, 
             Mr. Mast, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Hastings, Mr.

[[Page H1543]]

             Curbelo of Florida, Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, 
             Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Soto, Mr. Gaetz, and Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida):
       H. Res. 775. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of March 11, 2018, through March 17, 
     2018, as National Women Veterans Recognition Week; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. NORCROSS:
       H. Res. 776. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the first Saturday in October as ``National 
     Animal Rescue Day'' to create awareness of the importance of 
     adoption, educate on the importance of spaying and neutering 
     animals, and the encouragement of animal adoptions throughout 
     the United States; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Neal, and Mr. McGovern):
       H. Res. 777. A resolution strongly reaffirming support for 
     the Good Friday Agreement, urging the British and Irish 
     Governments to vigorously implement certain aspects of the 
     Agreement, and urging the Secretary of State to appoint a 
     Special Envoy for Northern Ireland and to continue to promote 
     full implementation of the Agreement; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. King of 
             New York, Mr. Faso, and Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York):
       H. Res. 778. A resolution honoring Erin Hamlin of Remsen, 
     New York, for proudly representing the United States in four 
     consecutive Winter Olympic Games; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



