

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 6, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1375]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO DENNIS FRYE


 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor a prominent 
Civil War historian, whose work spans the globe as a lecturer, guide, 
and preservationist. Dennis Frye is the chief historian at Harpers 
Ferry National Park in my home State of West Virginia.
  Born out of the fiery turmoil of the Civil War, the Mountain State 
was founded by courageous patriots who were willing to risk their lives 
and fortunes in a united pursuit of justice and freedom for all. As 
West Virginians, we take great pride in our history, and it is so 
important to instill this commitment to our values in the next 
generation. That is Dennis's legacy.
  As a preservationist, Dennis is a cofounder and first president of 
the Save Historic Antietam Foundation and is also a cofounder and 
former president of the Civil War Trust. His lifetime achievements in 
the Civil War history community have earned him numerous awards and 
recognitions, including the Shelby Foote Award by the Civil War Trust 
and the Nevins-Freeman Award by the Civil War Roundtable of Chicago--
the first and oldest Civil War roundtable.
  Dennis has authored nearly 100 articles and 10 books and also helped 
produce the Emmy Award-winning television features about the Battle of 
Antietam, abolitionist John Brown, and Maryland during the Civil War. 
He has been published in countless prestigious Civil War magazines, 
including Civil War Times Illustrated, America's Civil War, Blue & Gray 
Magazine, North and South Magazine, and Hallowed Ground and has been 
featured as a guest contributor to the Washington Post. His book, 
``Harpers Ferry Under Fire,'' received the national book of the year 
award from the Association of Partners for Public Lands. ``September 
Suspense: Lincoln's Union in Peril'' was awarded the 2012 Laney Book 
Prize for distinguished scholarship and writing on the military and 
political history of the Civil War.
  Dennis is a highly sought after tour guide, having worked with the 
Smithsonian, National Geographic, and numerous colleges and 
universities. He has a remarkable gift for storytelling and has 
certainly made history a favorite subject for countless students.
  West Virginia is great because our people are great--Mountaineers who 
will always be free. In fact, when visitors come to West Virginia, I 
jump at the chance to tell them about our wonderful State. We have more 
veterans per capita than most any State in the Nation. We have fought 
in more wars, shed more blood, and lost more lives for the cause of 
freedom than most any State. We have always done the heavy lifting and 
never complained. We have mined the coal and forged the steel that 
built the guns, ships, and factories that have protected and continue 
to protect our country. I am so deeply proud of what our citizens have 
accomplished and what they will continue to accomplish in the days and 
years ahead.
  Dennis has been a vital part of keeping the legacy of our State alive 
and inspiring the next generation to research, learn, and appreciate 
what makes West Virginia so special.
  While he is retiring and everyone is sure to miss his strong 
leadership, Dennis's unwavering dedication passion for his work will 
leave a lasting legacy with the countless lives he has touched. I am 
sincerely grateful for his remarkable work and for showcasing our 
beautiful State to the rest of the Nation. I am deeply honored to wish 
good health and much happiness to Dennis and his family in the days and 
years ahead.

                          ____________________



