

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 9 (Tuesday, January 16, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S187-S188]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 326

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 326, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the tax-exempt 
financing of certain government-owned buildings.


                                 S. 411

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota

[[Page S188]]

(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 411, a bill to eliminate 
racial, religious, and other discriminatory profiling by law 
enforcement, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 424

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 424, a bill to 
amend title 5, United States Code, to include certain Federal positions 
within the definition of law enforcement officer for retirement 
purposes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative care at 
accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing schools, 
social work schools, and other programs, including physician assistant 
education programs, to promote education and research in palliative 
care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty careers in 
academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 793, a bill to 
prohibit sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 842

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 842, a bill to prohibit 
Federal agencies and Federal contractors from requesting that an 
applicant for employment disclose criminal history record information 
before the applicant has received a conditional offer, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 999

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 999, a bill to 
amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to permanently prohibit the 
conduct of offshore drilling on the outer Continental Shelf in the Mid-
Atlantic, South Atlantic, North Atlantic, and Straits of Florida 
planning areas.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill 
to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-
American Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
service during World War II.


                                S. 1106

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1106, a bill to designate 
the same individual serving as the Chief Nurse Officer of the Public 
Health Service as the National Nurse for Public Health.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1503, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th 
anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1591, a bill to 
impose sanctions with respect to the Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to 
amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of 
that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users 
of interactive computer services of Federal and State criminal and 
civil law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1764

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1764, a bill 
to extend the principle of federalism to State drug policy, provide 
access to medical marijuana, and enable research into the medicinal 
properties of marijuana.


                                S. 1920

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1920, a bill to amend title 
40, United States Code, to direct the Administrator of General Services 
to incorporate bird-safe building materials and design features into 
public buildings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2121

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2121, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require reporting of certain 
data by providers and suppliers of air ambulance services for purposes 
of reforming reimbursements for such services under the Medicare 
program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2235

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2235, a bill to establish a 
tiered hiring preference for members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces.


                                S. 2295

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2295, a bill 
to increase the rates of pay under the General Schedule and other 
statutory pay systems and for prevailing rate employees by 3.0 percent, 
and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 363

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 363, a resolution 
expressing profound concern about the growing political, humanitarian, 
and economic crisis in Venezuela and the widespread human rights abuses 
perpetrated by the Government of Venezuela.


                              S. RES. 367

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) 
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 367, a resolution condemning the 
Government of Iran for its violence against demonstrators and calling 
for peaceful resolution to the concerns of the citizens of Iran.

                          ____________________



