

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 12 (Friday, January 19, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S346]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING TAMARACK AEROSPACE GROUP

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, over the past 20 years the aerospace 
industry in my home State of Idaho has grown by an astonishing 40 
percent, with a number of small business firms leading the way. As you 
may know, the aerospace industry is a complex field that requires a 
passion for innovation and great attention to detail. I am pleased to 
say that, in my home State of Idaho, these qualities are found in 
successful small businesses all across the State. As chairman of the 
Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, it is my 
privilege to honor Tamarack Aerospace Group as the Small Business of 
the Month for January 2018. Tamarack Aerospace is a pioneer in a 
variety of aerospace engineering products that are used in airplanes 
across the Nation and the world. This small business contributes 
significantly to Idaho's reputation as a destination for trailblazers 
in the aerospace industry and is a remarkable example of 
entrepreneurial innovation.
  In 2010, Mr. Nicholas Guida founded Tamarack Aerospace Group in 
Sandpoint, ID. Mr. Guida has over 25 years of experience in the 
aerospace industry, including time spent as an aerospace engineer, a 
safety consultant, and as a test pilot. Since Tamarack's founding, Mr. 
Guida assembled an impressive team of six diverse professionals with 
years of experience across various sectors of the aerospace industry. 
From veteran Navy pilots to skilled mechanical engineers, the team at 
Tamarack combines experience with a passion for innovation.
  Tamarack Aerospace specializes in something called active winglet 
innovation with their product, ATLAS, which actively reduces the load 
placed on each wing of an aircraft. Tamarack's winglets allow for 
optimal efficiency without compromising an aircraft's structural 
integrity. As a result, aircraft equipped with this technology have 
lower operating costs, as well as increased fuel efficiency and life of 
the aircraft's wings. This technology makes air travel cheaper and more 
efficient, without compromising the safety of pilots or passengers. 
Tamarack will soon be representing Idaho internationally at the 
Singapore Airshow next month, showcasing their new technological 
innovations in collaboration with the Idaho Department of Commerce's 
exhibit at the airshow. It is very exciting to see these accomplished 
entrepreneurs represent Idaho and the United States on the 
international stage.
  The Tamarack Aerospace Group is making an outsized impact in a highly 
technical field and recently received much deserved recognition for 
these contributions by being named a winner of the 61st Annual Laureate 
Award by Aviation Week & Space Technology. The award recognizes those 
who inspire innovation and show leadership in the world of aviation. It 
is this kind of innovation that continues to set our great Nation apart 
and propel us forward. Mr. Guida and the team at Tamarack have also 
shown tremendous resourcefulness, resilience, and perseverance in 
navigating the certification and regulatory processes to bring their 
winglets to market, which is no easy feat.
  I would like to extend my sincerest congratulations to Mr. Guida and 
all of the employees at Tamarack Aerospace Group for being selected as 
the January 2018 Small Business of the Month. You make Idaho proud, and 
I look forward to watching your continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



