

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1604-H1606]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  2045
                          DANGERS OF BURN PITS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
Soto) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss the Helping Veterans 
Exposed to Burn Pits Act, H.R. 1279, and I will talk a minute about one 
of my own constituents, Brian, who is facing this very dangerous 
condition.
  From the summer of 2004 through 2009, my constituent Brian was 
deployed a total of six times on combat operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan as a United States Marine Corps helicopter mechanic.
  As a junior marine, he would haul trash daily to the airbases' burn 
pits. He helped burn all the unit's trash and stood security watch on 
the burn pits, which are always located near work or housing areas in 
airbases.
  During each deployment, Brian would smell the trash burning in the 
pits and was always in the path of the smoke. He would often wear rags 
across his mouth and nose to reduce the foul smell and filter the smoke 
from the air he was breathing.
  After some time, Brian developed breathing troubles, and the base 
medical center provided inhalers that helped temporarily. When he was 
home in between the deployments, he had breathing treatments and was 
diagnosed with bronchitis on multiple occasions.
  In 2013, Brian developed a serious case of pneumonia. An abscess had 
formed in the lower lobe of his left lung. It ruptured, filling the 
lobe with fluid. The doctors removed a portion of Brian's left lung to 
save his life. The surgery kept him alive but greatly reduced lung 
capacity and functionality.
  In 2016, Brian was offered the option to retire early from the United 
States Marine Corps. The Veterans Administration reviewed his case and 
determined a 100 percent disability rating. He is currently going 
through more testing due to undiagnosed heart issues and elevated blood 
level count for his blood cells, and he is still being treated for lung 
problems.
  To this day, Brian reports having rib cage pain and nerve damage from 
the lung surgery on a daily basis.
  Brian is, unfortunately, not the only servicemember whose health is 
deteriorating due to exposure to harmful substances from burning of 
waste in military bases.
  While we are glad to see action taken in the NDAA for fiscal year 
2018, we need a more permanent solution. I am proud to cosponsor H.R. 
1279, Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act, that would create a 
center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
better understand the health effects and treatments associated with 
burn pits.
  I also encourage our United States military to provide proper 
breathing safety apparatuses and reconsider their current policy of 
having burn pits on or near our bases.
  I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and these reforms 
because we all have an obligation to care for our veterans.


     Honoring Dr. Cyndia Morales Muniz During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Dr. Cyndia Morales Muniz.
  Dr. Cyndia Morales Muniz serves as an assistant director at Hispanic 
Initiatives in the president's division at the University of Central 
Florida, affectionately known as UCF in central Florida. As chair of 
UCF's Hispanic Serving Institution, HSI, Task Force, she facilitates 
communication and collaboration within the university community to 
strengthen UCF's Hispanic-serving efforts.
  As founding president of the Latino Faculty & Staff Association, 
LaFaSA, at UCF, Dr. Muniz has been the catalyst that has elevated 
Latino programming at UCF. With grant support from the Hispanic 
Federation, she established the CREAR Futuros Mentoring Program at UCF 
in 2016. The following year, she planned UCF's inaugural Latino 
graduation ceremony, Nuestra Graduacion.
  In the local community, she supports the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce 
of Metro Orlando and the Hispanic Heritage Scholarship Fund of Metro 
Orlando.
  Dr. Muniz is highly regarded in the central Florida community. She 
also advocates for Latino student success at the national level, 
helping lead two national projects in partnership with Excelencia in 
Education and serving as the UCF representative within the Hispanic 
Association of Colleges and Universities. She also coleads the Puerto 
Rican Education Relief Team at UCF, helping support displaced students 
affected by Hurricane Maria in their transition to central Florida.
  Having been a first-generation, low-income college student, she takes 
full advantage of opportunities to discuss and elevate best practices 
and policy implications for underrepresented communities.
  Dr. Muniz earned a bachelor's degree in sociology at Binghamton 
University, a master's degree in sociology at St. John's University, 
and a doctoral degree in educational leadership at the University of 
Central Florida. Most recently, she was selected as a 2018 College 
Board Professional Fellow.
  Dr. Muniz is a proud Puerto Rican and resides in Orlando with her 
loving husband, Antonio.
  For that, Dr. Cyndia Morales Muniz, we honor you.


    Honoring Vetnah ``Yemen'' Monessar During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Vetnah ``Yemen'' Monessar.
  Vetnah ``Yemen'' Monessar is a community organizer and political 
activist with over 13 years of experience in mobilizing and elevating 
the narrative of Muslim Americans in our community.

[[Page H1605]]

  She has led legislative and electoral campaigns at all levels of 
government, advocating for equitable healthcare, education reform, fair 
access economic development, and human rights, in addition to numerous 
other issue-based campaigns.
  Vetnah serves as the executive director of Emgage Florida, a civic 
engagement nonprofit that aims to educate, engage, and empower Muslim 
Americans in the civic engagement process.
  She made history as the first hired woman State director for a 
Presidential campaign as the State coalition director for Hillary for 
America.
  Vetnah currently serves as the vice president of the Orlando American 
Muslim Chamber of Commerce, on the Young Professionals Board of Harbor 
House, and on the Orlando Chapter 57 Citizen Review Board and has 
received numerous community service and leadership awards.
  She received her degree in Islamic studies and religion from the 
Islamic University of Dr. Bilal Philips, as well as a degree in 
paralegal studies with a focus on transactional and litigation law.
  As a community leader, she is a constant champion of those who 
traditionally do not have their voices heard and empowering them to be 
involved in the democratic process.
  For that, Vetnah ``Yemen'' Monessar, we salute you.


           Honoring Margie Viera During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Margie Viera.
  Margie Viera is a force of nature and an inspiration to us all.
  She works with community leaders, government, and businessowners from 
all industries to bring opportunities and growth to the central Florida 
region. She has influence in major areas, including public affairs, 
education, business development, international commercial import and 
export, and strategic alliances.
  She helps businesses, big and small, to achieve growth. Her work has 
made an impact globally in major world centers, including in Puerto 
Rico; California, Texas, Florida in the United States; as well as Latin 
America, Spain, among other countries.
  Margie is passionate about volunteering and mentoring. She is the 
development director at the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metro 
Orlando, one of the Nation's leading organizations committed to the 
economic development of the Hispanic community directly impacting the 
central Florida region. Throughout her tenure as development director, 
Margie has engaged widely in policy development and advocacy across 
education, economic, social, and cultural spheres.
  In the educational industry, Margie worked transforming lives through 
her service as the daytime program director at Ana G. Mendez University 
System, where she started the first bilingual program that serves 
Hispanic youth and empowered her students by giving them access to 
professional opportunities and skills development.
  She is the cofounder of the Aspire to Inspire Youth Mentorship 
Program, which impacts underserved students to inspire them to become 
the next generation of leaders. Aspire to Inspire is a community 
organization that inspires Latin youth to stay in school and reach for 
the stars while creating a culture of #Paying IT Forward in her 
community.
  Born in Puerto Rico and the single mother of two boys, Margie 
understands firsthand the challenges of living on the mainland away 
from her family on the island. She is a woman of valor, a loving 
mother, and a fierce advocate for education.
  Margie Viera is a Latina leader using her powerful voice for our most 
vulnerable in central Florida.
  For that, Margie Viera, we honor you.


       Honoring Karen Cooper Welzel During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Karen Cooper Welzel.
  Karen Cooper Welzel was born in Michigan. Both her parents fought for 
workers' rights and led the formation of the United Auto Workers union. 
Her family history became the basis for Karen to become politically 
active and as involved as she is today. Karen and her husband, George, 
moved to central Florida in 1994 and soon thereafter joined in the Polk 
Democratic Executive Committee meetings and the local Democratic club 
meetings.
  Karen worked in human resources and later became a corporate HR 
director for a private hospitality company, overseeing five hotels and 
other properties.
  Karen volunteered for the Howard Dean Presidential campaign in 2003 
and continued in local politics by participating in Democratic clubs 
and the Polk County Democratic Party. She attended training sessions, 
served as a delegate to the Florida Democratic Party conventions, and 
encouraged and supported local candidates.
  Karen was later elected chairwoman of the Polk County DEC. She 
chartered five new Democratic clubs in the county and opened two 
campaign offices. She also serves on the board of directors of Side 
Street Art Beat, an organization that provides opportunities for 
creative self-expression and support for individuals with special 
needs.
  In 2014, Karen started a local chapter of the Democratic Women's Club 
of Florida in East Polk County. She currently serves as the chair of 
the Candidate Screening Committee.
  In 2016, she was elected by the Polk County DEC members to serve as 
the State Committee Woman and currently is chairing the Polk DEC 
Campaign Committee. Karen and members of the DWC East Polk Ridge Club 
organized two women's rallies that resulted in the creation of the DWCF 
Lakeland Club.
  Karen has stood before the Polk County Legislative Delegation several 
years in a row demanding voting rights for all citizens and gun safety 
measures.
  Karen is the mother of two sons and now proud to be a grandmother.
  For that, Karen Cooper Welzel, we honor you.


          Honoring Ybeth Bruzual During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor of Ybeth Bruzual.
  Ybeth Bruzual is a beloved Venezuelan-Puerto Rican journalist in our 
community who has lived in central Florida since 1981 and considers our 
area her home.
  Ybeth is an anchor for Spectrum News 13. She also hosts ``Political 
Connections'' on Sundays.
  She is a three-time Emmy nominee and won an Emmy in 2016 for the 
Pulse Vigil live coverage at Lake Eola. Bruzual was honored with the 
UCF Department of Political Science Outstanding Alumni Award in 2015 
for her political coverage.
  She is fascinated by politics. She earned a bachelor's degree in 
international politics from the University of Central Florida. She puts 
that knowledge to good use in her job at News 13.
  Ybeth bleeds black and gold and is a proud member of the UCF Alumni 
Association. She enjoys cheering on the UCF Knights at sporting event 
at Spectrum Stadium.
  She also earned an AA degree from Valencia College, where she served 
as a writer and circulation manager in the 1990s on the school's 
newspaper, Valencia Voice.
  She calls herself an endless prisoner of hope, and demonstrates that 
by her many community activities. She is a past board member for both 
Shepherd's Hope Clinic and Central Florida Chapter Board for Lighthouse 
of Central Florida, offering service to the blind, and a former mentor 
for the Compact Program for Orange County Public Schools.
  Ybeth is the past president of the Central Florida Chapter of the 
National Association of Hispanic Journalists, and is a proud lifetime 
member of that organization.
  Ybeth and her husband, Alfredo, have a young son.
  And for that, Ybeth Bruzual, we honor you.

                              {time}  2100


        Honoring Lisa Ann Franchina During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Lisa Ann Franchina.
  Lisa Ann Franchina is a local attorney. She is also a member of many 
civic organizations, and has served on many community boards in central 
Florida.
  Born in Queens, New York, Lisa received her bachelor of arts in 
humanities from Hofstra University, and her juris doctorate from the 
Shepard Broad Law Center at Nova Southeastern University.

[[Page H1606]]

  After her graduation from law school, Lisa was an assistant public 
defender in Orlando, handling trials and appeals in criminal court. For 
the last 25 years, Lisa has been a small-business owner, operating her 
own firm.
  In 2016, Lisa received a Spotlight Award for her service on the 
membership committee of the family law section of the Florida bar.
  In additional, Lisa is an active member of our community. She is a 
current member and past secretary for the Orange County League of Women 
Voters, and a member of the Tiger Bay Club of Central Florida as well. 
Lisa has served as President of the Central Florida Chapter of the 
National Association of Women Business Owners, as a director and 
executive committee member of the Back to Nature Wildlife Refuge, and 
as a board member for the Orlando Marine Institute.
  Lisa is currently serving her third term as president of the Board of 
Trustees for the Orange County Library System, and her second term as 
chair of the Orange County Animal Services Advisory Board.
  Lisa is a shelter volunteer at the Orange County Animal Services, and 
has donated over 5,000 volunteer hours in the past 2 years.
  Lisa was named as 2016 Orange County District Four Citizen of the 
Year for her service to the central Florida community.
  And for that, Lisa Ann Franchina, we honor you.


         Honoring Daisy Lopez-Cid During Women's History Month

  Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Daisy Lopez-Cid.
  Not many people can say that, in the height of a financial meltdown 
and national housing crisis back in 2008, they would venture out on 
their own to open up a real estate brokerage.
  While most were downsizing, Daisy Lopez-Cid was planning her empire. 
In 2007 and 2008, she dove in feet first and opened her office. By 
2016, office number two made its debut, and both have been churning out 
steady numbers since their doors opened.
  Daisy was ranked in the top 250 sales agents in the country 4 years 
in a row; and, in 2015, she was ranked number 3 in the Nation.
  She joined NAHREP, the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate 
Professionals, in 2008, and quickly realized how the association's 
mission to advance sustainable Hispanic home ownership lined up with 
her core values as a real estate professional.
  To give back to the organization that has empowered her for so long, 
she now serves as the NAHREP 2018 national president.
  Recently, when Hurricane Maria hit our native island of Puerto Rico, 
she traveled down there for over 2 weeks, bringing down thousands and 
thousands of pounds of supplies: food, water, medications, clothing, 
and so many other of the bare essentials that we need for living every 
day.
  She went down door to door, and people in Puerto Rico welcomed her 
into their homes and welcomed the much-needed help that helped lift up 
the island, along with so many entrepreneurs in central Florida who 
helped with our brothers and sisters in Puerto Rico.
  Although real estate was not her first career, it was clear to see 
that this former New York paralegal had found her calling in real 
estate. Daisy is someone you want to have in your corner, as her zest 
for success is contagious, and her wisdom speaks beyond her years. Her 
vast real estate knowledge and love for education and for educating her 
agents has allowed her firm to grow on Broadway in Kissimmee, and to 
put more families into homes.
  Daisy has a passion for customer care that is contagious, and her 50 
agents will tell you that she is in it to win it.
  Her goal is and has always been quality over quantity, and that makes 
Daisy a success. It is a priority for her to educate her agents and 
equip them with the tools they will need for success.
  She also serves as a trustee in our local community college, Valencia 
College, where we worked together to create Poinciana Valencia campus, 
which now is up and running and serving thousands of folks in south 
Osceola County.
  And for that, Daisy Lopez-Cid, we honor you.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



