

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1448-S1449]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             UNITED STATES-GUATEMALA BILATERAL RELATIONSHIP

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I wish to affirm the partnership between 
the United States and Guatemala. I also rise to speak to the crucial 
role the Guatemalan attorney general has in efforts to strengthen the 
rule of law and the importance of the selection of the country's next 
attorney general.
  In addition to the important contributions that more than 1 million 
Guatemalan Americans make to the United States, our two countries share 
a wide range of economic, social, and cultural linkages. In the past 2 
years, Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales has emerged as a partner on 
U.S. foreign policy priorities. He has supported U.S. efforts to 
increase diplomatic pressure against Venezuelan President Nicolas 
Maduro in the face of the humanitarian, economic, and political crisis 
in Venezuela. President Morales is also working to align Guatemalan 
foreign policy with the U.S. approach to the Middle East, both at the 
United Nations and by recently announcing that Guatemala will move its 
embassy to Jerusalem.
  Since 2014, I have supported increased U.S. assistance for Guatemala 
and the other Northern Triangle countries in order to address levels of 
violence and poverty that drive migration in the region. I believe that 
continued U.S. engagement can be transformative for efforts to increase 
security, strengthen democratic governance, support civil society, 
improve protections for human rights, and foster economic development. 
However, we must recognize that these efforts would be futile without 
the work of Guatemala's attorney general.
  While President Morales made the commendable decision to increase the 
budget for Guatemala's Public Ministry, which is overseen by the 
attorney general, I am troubled by recent actions that run counter to 
the Ministry's work. For the past 11 years, Guatemala has become an 
example in the fight against impunity. This is due, in no small part, 
to the work, commitment, and determination of Guatemala's attorneys 
general and the efforts of the United Nations International Commission 
Against Impunity in Guatemala--known by its Spanish acronym, CICIG--an 
independent investigative body that works closely with the Public 
Ministry.
  Since its creation in 2006, CICIG has worked with the Public Ministry 
to investigate and dismantle the criminal networks that seek to 
influence the Guatemalan state, while also helping increase the 
capacity of local judicial institutions. Such efforts have contributed 
to reducing Guatemala's overall impunity rate for homicides from 95 
percent to 72 percent. These institutions deserve our steadfast support 
so they can continue their progress building a safer and more 
prosperous Guatemala, which in turn contributes to a more stable 
hemisphere. The success of this model has served as a model for similar 
efforts in other countries.
  Although there has been tangible progress, much work remains, and 
Guatemala will continue to benefit from a sustained commitment to good 
governance and accountability. I worry recent actions signal a move in 
the wrong direction, including the recent removal

[[Page S1449]]

of Interior Minister, including Francisco Rivas and the chief of 
Guatemala's Internal Revenue Service, Juan Solorzano Foppa--both were 
key partners of the Public Ministry and the CICIG. I was equally 
concerned about attempts last year to reform the Guatemalan penal code 
in a way that may complicate the prosecution of cases involving illicit 
financing and commuted sentences for crimes such as extortion, 
trafficking, and sexual assault. I was truly shocked by President 
Morales' attempt to expel CICIG commissioner, Ivan Velasquez, from 
Guatemala. The work of Commissioner Velasquez is highly regarded and 
attempting to remove him simply sends the wrong message to those 
interested in Guatemala's fight against impunity.

  These developments are deeply concerning as Guatemala is in the 
process of selecting its next attorney general. It is imperative that 
the Morales administration ensures a credible and efficient process in 
which all Guatemalans can have faith. It is equally necessary that the 
nominating commission responsible for selecting candidates conduct a 
transparent, merit-based process, guided by international standards. 
Most importantly, it is essential that President Morales select a 
person with the best qualifications, professionalism, and impeccable 
ethical standards to continue advancing an agenda that upholds the 
independence and impartiality of the institution. Here in the U.S. 
Senate, we will be following this process closely.
  During her visit to Guatemala, Ambassador Nikki Haley reaffirmed U.S. 
support for CICIG and Commissioner Velasquez, noting that it would be 
in President Morales' best interest to continue support for the UN body 
and the commissioner. Ambassador Haley's message builds on ongoing 
bipartisan efforts, including continued U.S. engagement in Central 
America's Northern Triangle, steadfast support for CICIG, and ensuring 
accountability for human rights abuses, when necessary, through the 
implementation of the Global Magnitsky Act.
  Yesterday, I had the chance to meet with Commissioner Velasquez and 
reaffirm my support for him and CICIG as they carry out their critical 
work. I remain committed to ensuring that the State Department, U.S. 
Agency for International Development, and the Treasury Department use 
all of our foreign policy tools to help strengthen democratic 
governance and the rule of law as we continue our support for the 
Guatemalan government and CICIG.
  Guatemala's next attorney general must continue the courageous work 
of current Attorney General Thelma Aldana and former Attorney General 
Claudia Paz y Paz, whose efforts have been invaluable in the fight 
against impunity. Failure to do so would undercut the commitment of 
prosecutors and judges who have done their work with professionalism 
and adherence to the law and whose efforts have produced tangible 
results.
  Promoting good governance and the rule of law in Guatemala is 
critical to building a resilient, secure, and prosperous nation for all 
Guatemalans. Guatemala has taken commendable steps in establishing 
itself as a leader on these and other critical issues in the 
hemisphere. It is my sincere belief that committing to these efforts 
will greatly contribute to overall stability and success to the region, 
including the United States.
  In closing, I urge President Morales to support the work of the 
Public Ministry and CICIG, so they are able to move forward with their 
important work without interference. I also encourage President Morales 
to continue his commitment to transparency and accountability, and to 
advancing his statement that, ``the rule of law should always 
prevail.''

                          ____________________



