

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S967-S969]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) 
and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 266, a bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in 
recognition of his heroic achievements and courageous contributions to 
peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from

[[Page S968]]

Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to 
maximize discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of 
promising childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 424

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 424, a bill to amend 
title 5, United States Code, to include certain Federal positions 
within the definition of law enforcement officer for retirement 
purposes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 732

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 732, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a refundable tax credit against 
income tax for the purchase of qualified access technology for the 
blind.
  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 732, supra.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 751, a bill to amend title 54, United States 
Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use of amounts in a 
National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address the 
maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 915, a bill to amend title II of the 
Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension offset and 
windfall elimination provisions.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for certain 
rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center services 
furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1027, a bill to extend the 
Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1050, a bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
collectively, to the Chinese-American Veterans of World War II, in 
recognition of their dedicated service during World War II.


                                S. 1215

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1215, a bill to amend part 
E of title IV of the Social Security Act to allow States that provide 
foster care for children up to age 21 to serve former foster youths 
through age 23 under the John H. Chafee Foster Care Independence 
Program.


                                S. 1537

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1537, a bill to amend the Neotropical 
Migratory Bird Conservation Act to reauthorize the Act.


                                S. 1689

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1689, a bill to amend 
the Controlled Substances Act to provide for a new rule regarding the 
application of the Act to marihuana, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1719

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1719, a bill to eliminate 
duties on imports of recreational performance outerwear, to establish 
the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1917

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1917, a bill to reform sentencing laws and 
correctional institutions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2032

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2032, a bill to 
make certain footwear eligible for duty-free treatment under the 
Generalized System of Preferences, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2076, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of activities 
related to Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain health 
under the Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2147

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2147, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund to 
establish a Pension Rehabilitation Administration within the Department 
of the Treasury to make loans to multiemployer defined benefit plans, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2270

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2270, a bill 
to make improvements to the account for the State response to the 
opioid abuse crisis to improve tribal health.


                                S. 2324

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2324, a bill to amend the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 to change certain requirements relating 
to the capital structure of business development companies, to direct 
the Securities and Exchange Commission to revise certain rules relating 
to business development companies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2345

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2345, a bill to amend the DNA Analysis 
Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 to provide additional resources to 
State and local prosecutors, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2353

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2353, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to report on the estimated total assets under 
direct or indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and other 
figures, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2354

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2354, a bill to provide for 
the administration of certain national monuments, to establish a 
National Monument Enhancement Fund, and to establish certain wilderness 
areas in the States of New Mexico and Nevada.


                                S. 2379

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2379, a bill to improve and 
expand authorities, programs, services, and benefits for military 
spouses and military families, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2421

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Nebraska

[[Page S969]]

(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2421, a bill to amend the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 to provide an exemption from certain notice requirements and 
penalties for releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at 
farms.


                               S. RES. 61

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. Res. 61, a resolution calling on the Department of Defense, other 
elements of the Federal Government, and foreign governments to 
intensify efforts to investigate, recover, and identify all missing and 
unaccounted-for personnel of the United States.


                              S. RES. 368

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 368, a 
resolution supporting the right of all Iranian citizens to have their 
voices heard.


                              S. RES. 402

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 402, a resolution calling upon the President 
to exercise relevant mandatory sanctions authorities under the 
Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act in response to 
the Government of the Russian Federation's continued aggression in 
Ukraine and illegal occupation of Crimea and assault on democratic 
institutions around the world, including through cyber attacks.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1948

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin), 
the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. 
Kennedy) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1948 proposed to H.R. 2579, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow the premium tax credit with 
respect to unsubsidized COBRA continuation coverage.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1954

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1954 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2579, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to allow the premium tax credit with respect to unsubsidized COBRA 
continuation coverage.

                          ____________________



