

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 27 (Monday, February 12, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S868]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO JERRY BLANN

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Jerry Blann and 
recognize his extraordinary contributions to Jackson Hole Mountain 
Resort and the State of Wyoming. Under Jerry's leadership and vision, 
Jackson Hole Mountain Resort has flourished to become the foremost ski 
resort of North America and one of the premier destinations in the 
world.
  After 22 years as President of Jackson Hole Mountain Resort, Jerry is 
moving on to new challenges and to enjoy the mountain and the community 
he has spent decades to help build. Through his passion and knowledge 
of the industry, Jerry is one of the most recognized and respected 
leaders in the ski industry today. His vision helped revolutionized 
Jackson Hole Mountain Resort and turn it into a year-round destination 
attracting skiers worldwide to Wyoming.
  From his childhood, Jerry has been involved in skiing. His father 
served as the general manager of Mt. Bachelor in Bend, OR. Jerry 
received a ski scholarship to the University of Denver, where he was an 
All-American athlete and captain of the team. The team won the NCAA 
championship three of his four seasons. After graduation, Jerry moved 
to Aspen to work in the ski industry and eventually became the 
president of Aspen Skiing Company.
  In 1995, Jackson Hole Mountain Resort named Jerry president and board 
member. For more than two decades, Jerry's guidance and vision 
transformed the resort, strengthening businesses and tourism in Jackson 
and the rest of Wyoming. During his tenure, Jerry increased the number 
of annual skier visits from the 200,000s to almost 600,000. He 
spearheaded over $200 million in capital improvements. He oversaw the 
replacement of the famous iconic aerial tram, the longest continual 
vertical rise at a ski resort in North America. He collaborated with 
community members to create the JH-AIR nonprofit to expand service from 
major airlines and bring more nonstop flights to Jackson Hole Airport. 
This partnership has proved incredibly successful, allowing the resort 
to flourish and help introduce our beautiful State to thousands of new 
visitors every year.
  In addition to these achievements, Jerry focused always on employees. 
He recognizes people are fundamental to success. He considers the 
quality of his staff one of his proudest accomplishments. That focus 
resulted in one of the highest rates of returning employees in the 
industry. It is no wonder Ski Magazine and Forbes recognize the resort 
as the No. 1 top destination ski resort.
  Jerry's impact is not limited to skiing. Jerry serves his community 
and state as vice president of the Jackson Hole airport board and 
serves on the Board of Directors for the Wyoming Business Council. He 
oversaw the Teton Village Master Plan and became the treasurer of the 
Teton Village Association, Improvement Service District.
  Jerry also made the wild lands he worked in and around a priority. He 
served on the Board of the National Ski Area Association, NSAAA, and 
chaired the environmental committee for a decade. His commitment to 
preserving the environment and beauty of Jackson has earned the resort 
multiple environmentally focused awards. The resort was twice the 
recipient of the Golden Eagle Award, the highest industry environmental 
honor.
  Jerry's leadership and the success of Jackson Hole Mountain Resort 
was felt statewide. Governor Matt Mead awarded him the BIG WYO Award in 
2016, given to individuals who achieved great strides in tourism and 
business to advance Wyoming. Governor Mead said Jerry's ``leadership at 
the Village, in the community and across the state is as awe-inspiring 
as the mountain itself.''
  I spoke to Jerry on the day his retirement was announced. What he 
told me would not surprise those who know him well. He said he was 
looking forward to the next challenge and next opportunity to serve the 
community he lives in and to many more days skiing the mountain he 
loves.
  In the years ahead, Bobbi and I wish Jerry, his wife, Rebecca, and 
his kids Brooke and Katie many more days serving and experiencing again 
the special place he helped reimagine.

                          ____________________



