

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 37 (Thursday, March 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1312-S1313]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                10TH ANNIVERSARY OF KOSOVO INDEPENDENCE

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I wish briefly to note that Saturday, 
February 17th, marked the 10th anniversary of the independence of 
Kosovo. I want to congratulate the people of Kosovo on reaching their 
aspirations for statehood 10 years ago and to support their current 
aspirations to be part of a democratic, integrated, and peaceful 
Europe. I urge the government and people of Kosovo to use this 
anniversary as an occasion to strengthen their commitments to democracy 
and human rights, to seek reconciliation with their neighbors, and to 
undertake and fully implement the reforms necessary to move forward in 
these areas.
  In 1998, the situation in Kosovo was markedly different. Still a 
province of Serbia, with its autonomy unilaterally revoked and its 
ethnic Albanian majority harshly repressed, Kosovo erupted in conflict. 
After years of passive resistance to Serbian rule, the people of Kosovo 
had enough and began to clamor for their rights. Early international 
efforts to restore peace were unsustainable, and with U.S. leadership, 
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO, Alliance was compelled to 
intervene militarily the following year, placing Kosovo under the 
administration of the United Nations, UN, and opening the question of 
its status.
  The violent chaos of 1998 and 1999--marked by horrific war crimes, 
massive displacement of populations, and ultimately the death of an 
estimated 12,000 or more people--made subsequent efforts to reach 
agreement on Kosovo's status a challenge, and only in February 2008 
could Kosovo assert independent statehood based on a plan developed by 
the respected Finnish politician, Martti Ahtisaari.
  This last decade has seen continued challenges as Kosovo has tried to 
achieve greater recognition of its independence abroad and to develop 
its democratic political institutions and economy at home. Perhaps the 
most important and positive development has been the direct dialogue 
since 2012 between Serbian and Kosovo officials in Brussels, under 
European Union, EU, auspices. These talks have sought to normalize 
relations between Belgrade and Pristina and to achieve practical 
progress that would improve the lives and protect the rights of the 
people in and from Kosovo. Some agreements have been reached, but 
implementation has been difficult. This work continues.
  As a Member of Congress, both House and Senate, I have been a witness 
to Kosovo's history. As a member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission for 
more than two decades and a member of the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee since coming to this Chamber in 2007, I have visited Kosovo 
and participated in numerous hearings on developments there. I have met 
with its leaders, as well as those of Serbia and other neighbors, and 
engaged in critical debates on issues ranging from military 
intervention and peacekeeping operations to diplomatic recognition and 
bilateral support for the country's democratic and economic 
development.
  As Kosovo moves into a second decade of statehood, I urge those 
countries that have not yet recognized its independence to do so now, 
particularly those in the European Union. Kosovo's independence is a 
reality, and full EU recognition will help pave the way to Kosovo's 
European integration as it continues to take the necessary steps to 
strengthen its democratic institutions, respect human rights, and 
adhere to the rule of law. Progress in these areas is desperately 
needed and something we should all want. Withholding recognition 
accomplishes nothing.

  While I make this call urging Kosovo's recognition, I want also to 
urge Kosovo's political leaders not to wait for outside incentives, but 
to see progress as in Kosovo's own interest and to make this progress 
now. Nothing will strengthen support for Kosovo and its integration 
into Europe in the years to come more than its efforts to take 
responsibility now for doing the right thing.
  In this regard, I encourage the Kosovo Government to make clear its 
commitment to democracy. The political turmoil in the country has 
raised questions about the strength of this commitment.
  I hope to see steps in Kosovo to boost respect for human and property 
rights of members of minority communities, whether Serb, Roma, Turk, 
Bosniak, or any of the others who live in Kosovo. This has been one 
area where progress has been sadly lacking with regard to what we would 
expect.
  I also urge the Kosovo Government to make progress on justice for 
past atrocities by supporting the work of the special court established 
for that purpose and respecting its decisions and judgements. Upholding 
the rule of law for crimes that individuals in Kosovo have committed 
will boost Kosovo as a nation and contribute to a

[[Page S1313]]

sustainable peace and prosperous future.
  With its young and enthusiastic population, I personally have little 
to question about Kosovo's future being bright, but the job of Kosovo's 
leaders today is to erase all doubts at home and abroad through 
accelerated progress on the democratic and human rights values we all 
hold dear. By doing so, Kosovo will make an even stronger claim to the 
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe--OSCE--NATO, and 
EU memberships it deserves in the years to come.
  Let me conclude, by expressing my support for continued U.S. 
leadership in the Western Balkans, a leadership that ended a decade of 
regional conflict, helped bring Kosovo to where it is today, and can 
make a difference still. With Russian and other outside influences 
seeking to undermine the progress we have made, it is in our interest 
to engage more actively and offer a positive alternative to a difficult 
past. It is in our interest to see Kosovo and the entire region stable 
and secure, reconciled and integrated, and--above all--prosperous. Let 
this be a time where we not only celebrate the progress we have made in 
the past decade, but also commit to more rapid progress in the decade 
to come.
  Congratulations, Kosovo, on your 10 years of independence. You can 
count on the continued support of your friends in the United States.

                          ____________________



