

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1230]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            RECOGNIZING THE WORK OF NBA ALL-STAR JOE JOHNSON

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Arkansas (Mr. Hill) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and applaud the work 
of NBA all-star and Arkansas native Joe Johnson of the Sacramento Kings 
with a local youth basketball program, the Arkansas H.A.W.K.S.
  The Arkansas H.A.W.K.S, an acronym meaning Hard At Work Kids, is a 
member of the Amateur Athletic Union organization dedicated to the 
development of athletic ability in American youth. Under the leadership 
of Coach Bill Ingram, the team's goal extends beyond the court and into 
the communities of central Arkansas, building a dynasty of basketball 
players who seek to make a lasting impact on their neighborhoods, city, 
State, and our country.
  Before he was a seven-time NBA all-star, Joe Johnson was a student at 
the historic Little Rock Central High School and a star player on the 
Arkansas H.A.W.K.S roster. In this partnership, the teams and players 
connected with the H.A.W.K.S will be given unique opportunities, 
including, mentorship, player development, and academic assistance.
  I would like to extend a hearty debt of gratitude and congratulations 
to Joe Johnson and the Arkansas H.A.W.K.S program for their selfless 
and worthwhile investment in central Arkansas youth.


             Honoring the Life and Legacy of Albert Yarnell

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and the legacy 
of one of Arkansas' great innovators and leaders, my friend Albert 
Yarnell of Searcy, Arkansas, who passed away earlier this year at the 
age of 94.
  Albert worked for over 75 years with his family to make Yarnell's Ice 
Cream one of the most successful regional ice cream companies in the 
United States. Yarnell's Ice Cream created many unique flavors, such as 
the Razorbacks' ice cream, Woo Pig Chewy; and my personal favorite, 
peppermint.
  Yarnell was an icon of Arkansas business and anchor of the Searcy and 
White County business community for decades. He is a past president of 
the Searcy Chamber of Commerce and served as mayor of Searcy. He was 
inducted into the Arkansas Business Hall of Fame in 2007 and is a 
member of the Arkansas Dairy Products Hall of Fame. He was a role model 
and friend to many across our State.
  I extend my respect, affection, and prayers to his many dear friends, 
family, and loved ones.


    Recognizing North Little Rock Middle School Teacher Dawn McLain

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize North Little Rock 
Middle School teacher Dawn McLain. Dawn, a sixth grade science and math 
teacher, recently was named a 2017-2018 recipient of the national 
Milken Educator Award, one of only 44 across our country. This 
prestigious honor is given to teachers with exceptional educational 
talent who impact students both in and out of the classroom.
  Dawn has not only increased her students' test scores, but she has 
engaged her students through robotics, design modeling, and rocketry. 
She is a strong proponent of project-based learning, technology 
integration, and data deployment. Dawn is also focused on helping her 
students build life skills that will help them succeed into adulthood 
and works to build strong relationships with both parents and her 
students.
  Teachers like Dawn prove that education is one of the best 
investments America can make. I am proud to represent her and all the 
teachers of central Arkansas who are making a difference in the lives 
of our kids.


           Recognizing Chief Warrant Officer 2 John Heffernan

  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize one of Arkansas' finest, 
Chief Warrant Officer 2 John Heffernan, who passed away late last month 
at the age of 77. His leadership and dedication to our State and Nation 
as a soldier, a veteran, and a volunteer is an example to all Arkansans 
and all Americans.
  Heffernan enlisted in the Army in 1962, and after more than 27 years 
of military service, John retired from the Arkansas Army National 
Guard. For the next 23 years, John provided his services at Camp 
Robinson and the Little Rock Air Force Base. He was one of many of the 
strongest advocates in central Arkansas for all matters related to our 
military veterans and their families.
  For the better part of half a century, John was a selfless servant to 
others, giving more of himself than he had to give. He had a passion 
for volunteering, rivaled only by his passion of service to his 
country.
  I extend my respect, affection, and prayers to his family and their 
loved ones.

                          ____________________



