

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 58 (Wednesday, April 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2075-S2076]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 379, a bill to amend 
title II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting 
period for disability insurance benefits under such title for 
individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 533

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 533, a bill to 
modernize the Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988.


                                S. 1086

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1086, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to remove the prohibition on 
eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select of members of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces who are eligible to enroll in a health 
benefits plan under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.


                                S. 1533

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1533, a bill to 
amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to cover physician services 
delivered by podiatric physicians to ensure access by Medicaid 
beneficiaries to appropriate quality foot and ankle care, to amend 
title XVIII of such Act to modify the requirements for diabetic shoes 
to be included under Medicare, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1890

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1890, a bill to 
improve the understanding of, and promote access to treatment for, 
chronic kidney disease, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1990

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1990, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to increase the amounts payable by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for dependency and indemnity 
compensation, to modify the requirements for dependency and indemnity 
compensation for survivors of certain veterans rated totally disabled 
at the time of death, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2060

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2060, a bill to promote democracy and human rights in Burma, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2177

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2177, a bill to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to establish a minimum salary threshold for 
bona fide executive, administrative, and professional employees exempt 
from Federal overtime compensation requirements, and automatically 
update such threshold every 3 years.


                                S. 2230

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2230, a bill to require the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development to improve services for survivors of 
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.


                                S. 2260

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2260, a bill to establish 
and fund an Opioids and STOP Initiative to expand, intensify, and 
coordinate fundamental, translational, and clinical research of the 
National Institutes of Health with respect to opioid abuse, the 
understanding of pain, and the discovery and development of safer and 
more effective treatments and preventive interventions for pain.


                                S. 2334

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Louisiana

[[Page S2076]]

(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2334, a bill to amend 
title 17, United States Code, to provide clarity with respect to, and 
to modernize, the licensing system for musical works under section 115 
of that title, to ensure fairness in the establishment of certain rates 
and fees under sections 114 and 115 of that title, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2387

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2387, a bill to 
provide better care and outcomes for Americans living with Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementias and their caregivers while accelerating 
progress toward prevention strategies, disease modifying treatments, 
and, ultimately, a cure.


                                S. 2586

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2586, a bill to amend the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act to increase the ability of a State to 
administer a permit program under that Act, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2587

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2587, a bill to amend the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 to establish a program to allow States 
to assume certain Federal responsibilities under that Act with respect 
to agency actions applicable to highway projects within the States, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2588

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2588, a bill to amend title 54, 
United States Code, to establish a program to allow States to assume 
certain Federal responsibilities under that title with respect to 
agency actions applicable to highway projects within the States, and 
for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 57

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo), the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mr. Cotton), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) and the 
Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 
57, a joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under 
chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relating to ``Indirect Auto 
Lending and Compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act''.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.


                              S. RES. 286

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), 
the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) and the 
Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 
286, a resolution supporting the role of the United States in ensuring 
children in the poorest countries have access to a quality education 
through the Global Partnership for Education.

                          ____________________



