

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 38 (Monday, March 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1351-H1352]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           POLICE OFFICER SCOTT BASHIOUM POST OFFICE BUILDING

  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (S. 831) to designate the facility of the

[[Page H1352]]

United States Postal Service located at 120 West Pike Street in 
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, as the ``Police Officer Scott Bashioum Post 
Office Building''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                 S. 831

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. POLICE OFFICER SCOTT BASHIOUM POST OFFICE 
                   BUILDING.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 120 West Pike Street in Canonsburg, 
     Pennsylvania, shall be known and designated as the ``Police 
     Officer Scott Bashioum Post Office Building''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Police Officer Scott Bashioum Post 
     Office Building''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Palmer) and the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.


                             General Leave

  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Alabama?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 831, introduced by the 
Senator from Pennsylvania, Pat Toomey.
  The bill would name the U.S. Post Office at 120 West Pike Street in 
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, in honor of Police Officer Scott Bashioum.
  Officer Bashioum served 29 years in the United States Air Force, 
retiring as a senior master sergeant.
  During his service in the Air Force, Officer Bashioum served in the 
Persian Gulf war, Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, 
and was part of the recovery effort in the aftermath of Hurricane 
Wilma.
  After retiring, Officer Bashioum became a police officer for the 
Canonsburg community.
  On November 10, 2016, he was shot and killed while responding to a 
domestic violence call.
  I thank Senator Toomey for introducing this bill to pay tribute to 
the life and sacrifice of Officer Bashioum.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to also join my colleagues in consideration 
of S. 831, a bill to designate the facility of the U.S. Postal Service 
located at 120 West Pike Street in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, as the 
Police Officer Scott Bashioum Post Office Building.
  Scott Leslie Bashioum was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and 
joined the U.S. Air Force in June of 1996, as a member of the 911th 
Airlift Wing's Civil Engineering Squadron. Scott served in both 
Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.
  Following 29 years of service in the Air Force, Senior Master 
Sergeant Bashioum became a full-time police officer in the Canonsburg 
community.
  On November 10, 2016, Officer Bashioum was killed in service to his 
community while responding to a domestic violence call.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to commemorate the life of 
public service lived by Officer Scott Bashioum and honor his memory. I 
urge the passage of S. 831, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Palmer) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, S. 831.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



