

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1732]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING WORLD DOWN SYNDROME DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, on World 
Down Syndrome Day, to celebrate the many individuals living with Down 
syndrome who are changing the world.
  People with Down syndrome can and do make meaningful contributions 
throughout their lives, in schools, in workplaces, their communities, 
public and political life, culture, media, and more.
  Take Gerber's adorable spokesbaby, Lucas Warren, a 1-year-old from 
Dalton, Georgia, whose infectious smile set him apart from the 140,000 
entries that Gerber received for the competition. After Lucas made his 
big debut in February on the TODAY show, the world fell in love with 
him, too.
  Lucas is the first child with Down syndrome to win the title since 
Gerber began the competition. His parents, Cortney and Jason Warren, 
said they hope that Lucas' story will shed light on the special needs 
community and help more individuals with special needs be accepted, and 
I certainly agree.
  Another incredible person living and thriving with Down syndrome is 
Kayla McKeon. Kayla is the manager of grassroots advocacy for the 
National Down Syndrome Society. She is the first registered lobbyist 
with Down syndrome.
  I met Kayla not too long ago when she interviewed me for her podcast, 
Kayla's Corner. She is upbeat and outgoing, and that is just part of 
what makes Kayla so special.
  A native of Syracuse, New York, Kayla is also a motivational speaker 
who draws on her experiences as an individual with a disability whose 
positive attitude inspires others to reach their highest potential.
  Kayla is also a Special Olympian who competes in floor hockey and 
bowling tournaments. But in many ways, Kayla is living a life like any 
other young person. She lives in Washington, D.C., and rides the Metro. 
She has a busy social life. She likes sporting events and motorcycle 
rides, but she is extraordinary and she is a role model for others.
  Kayla told the Auburn Citizen newspaper that she is committed to 
showing how much people with Down syndrome can achieve. She said: ``We 
are most definitely ready, willing, and able to do anything we set our 
minds to, getting a job, driving a car, going to college. We want to 
showcase our abilities, not our disabilities.''

  Well, I couldn't agree more with Kayla. After meeting this 
enthusiastic young woman, I am certain that she is able to do anything 
that she puts her mind to, and she is an outstanding ambassador for the 
Down syndrome community.
  Mr. Speaker, all people with Down syndrome must have opportunities to 
contribute to the community and live valued lives on a full and equal 
basis with others in all aspects of society.
  People with Down syndrome can and do bring so much to the community 
wherever they live, around the world, when given the opportunity.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in celebrating World Down 
Syndrome Day, where we not only celebrate all the achievements of those 
living with Down syndrome, but we double down in our commitment to 
ensure that no one with Down syndrome is prevented from making 
meaningful contributions to society. They have so much to give and make 
this world a brighter place.

                          ____________________



