

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S581]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Mr. Wyden, Mr. Heinrich, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Schatz, 
             Ms. Harris, Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. Duckworth, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Cardin, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Smith, Mr. Bennet, and 
             Mr. Leahy):
       S. 2354. A bill to provide for the administration of 
     certain national monuments, to establish a National Monument 
     Enhancement Fund, and to establish certain wilderness areas 
     in the States of New Mexico and Nevada; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Markey):
       S. 2355. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 25 New Chardon Street Lobby 
     in Boston, Massachusetts, as the ``John Fitzgerald Kennedy 
     Post Office''; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders, 
             and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 2356. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to address staffing and other issues at facilities, 
     including underserved facilities, of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 2357. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to review the processes and requirements of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs for scheduling appointments 
     for health care and conducting consultations under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 2358. A bill to require a study on women and lung 
     cancer, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL:
       S. 2359. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish a Joint Requirements Council in the Department 
     of Homeland Security; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Brown, 
             Mr. King, and Mr. Markey):
       S. 2360. A bill to provide for the minimum size of crews of 
     freight trains, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. 
             Scott):
       S. 2361. A bill to amend the Federal Home Loan Bank Act to 
     allow a captive insurance company that was a member of a 
     Federal Home Loan Bank before January 19, 2016 to continue or 
     restore the membership of the captive insurance company in 
     the Federal Home Loan Bank, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. REED:
       S. 2362. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     require that a consumer authorize the release of certain 
     information; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 2363. A bill to establish the Creating American 
     Investment, Redevelopment, and Opportunity Task Force; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr. Booker, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, and Mr. Inhofe):
       S. 2364. A bill to amend the Water Infrastructure Finance 
     and Innovation Act of 2014 to provide to State infrastructure 
     financing authorities additional opportunities to receive 
     loans under that Act to support drinking water and clean 
     water State revolving funds to deliver water infrastructure 
     to communities across the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 2365. A bill to impose additional sanctions with respect 
     to serious human rights abuses by the Government of Iran, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.

                          ____________________



