

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S2040]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 2636. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to establish a community action opioid 
     response grant program; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Heinrich, and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 2637. A bill to amend title XI of the Social Security 
     Act to improve the quality, health outcomes, and value of 
     maternity care under the Medicaid and CHIP programs by 
     developing maternity care quality measures and supporting 
     maternity care quality collaboratives; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 2638. A bill to require the Secretary of State to seek 
     to negotiate the elimination of all foreign subsidies for 
     international postal shipments to the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 2639. A bill to require the Federal Trade Commission to 
     establish privacy protections for customers of online edge 
     providers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 2640. A bill to require operators that provide online 
     and similar services to educational agencies, institutions, 
     or programs to protect the privacy and security of personally 
     identifiable information, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 2641. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to improve the requirement to purchase 
     domestic commodities or products, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Young, and Mr. Jones):
       S. 2642. A bill to require the Secretary of Labor, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, 
     to establish a pilot program for Jobs Plus Recovery programs, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Ms. Smith, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Merkley, and 
             Mr. Bennet):
       S. 2643. A bill to clarify the effect of certain final 
     rules and determinations of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency relating to greenhouse gas emissions standards for 
     light-duty vehicles; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.

                          ____________________



