

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1237-S1238]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           ILLINOIS FLOODING

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last week, rainstorms and melting snow 
caused flooding across Illinois, with more than 20 counties throughout 
the State placed under a flood warning. As the water level of rivers 
continued to rise, several communities had to evacuate their homes for 
their own safety. Sadly, these storms were so severe that flooded 
roadways claimed the life of an Illinois resident after her car rolled 
into a rain-filled ditch. Multiple communities were evacuated, and in 
some areas, residents had to be rescued by boat.
  Some of the worst impacted areas were in Iroquois, Kankakee, and 
Vermilion Counties. The Governor declared a State disaster for these 
counties, and the American Red Cross established shelters for evacuated 
residents.
  These floods were not just limited to communities in east central 
Illinois. Counties in western and downstate Illinois were also among 
the most impacted. In Ford Heights, a suburb of Chicago, at least 100 
homes were impacted and seven residents were rescued by boat. In north 
central Illinois, a nursing home in LaSalle County had to be evacuated, 
and the next day, parts of the county were placed under mandatory 
evacuation order.
  Downstate, rain continued through the weekend, and crews from the 
Department of Corrections worked to install flood gates in Hardin 
County, and the Department of Transportation delivered pumps, hoses, 
and sandbags to aid in recovery. The Illinois Department of Natural 
Resources also provided boats to aid with flood patrols.
  Some of the areas that experienced heavy rains and flooding 
throughout last week, like Freeport in northwestern Illinois, were also 
impacted by flooding just last year. Freeport was flooded in July 2017, 
and on Friday night, the Red Cross once again opened an emergency 
shelter there. Situations like this are the reason that communities 
that often experience flooding need more assistance, both to plan for 
emergencies and to quickly mitigate the aftermath.
  With extreme weather conditions like these becoming more frequent and 
more severe, I have heard from many Illinois constituents who are 
concerned about their ability to recover from repeated flood events 
like these. I stand ready to assist at the Federal level to help these 
communities rebuild and recover in a way that will allow them to be 
more resilient when the next flood occurs.
  As is often the case when a disaster like this occurs, I was so 
impressed with the residents, first responders, and local officials who 
worked tirelessly to protect their communities. I want to thank our 
local law enforcement--firefighters and police--who always do the best 
job to keep our communities safe and work long hours because of it.
  I also want to recognize the hard work of the State and Federal 
employees that have pitched in at every level, including the Army Corps 
of Engineers, the Department of Natural Resources, and the Illinois 
Emergency Management Agency.

[[Page S1238]]

  Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the Illinois resident 
who lost her life and with all those who have experienced damage to 
their homes and other property. We will rebuild--as the people of 
Illinois always do--and will once again be stronger for it.

                          ____________________



