

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1231]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 ADDRESSING THE ISSUE OF GLOBAL HUNGER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Marshall) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the issue of 
global hunger. Tonight, this very evening, 800 million people across 
the world will go to bed hungry. Throughout 2017, this very past year, 
this number has only grown, making this the first year in a decade that 
global hunger has increased.
  This increase arises from violent conflicts and natural disasters 
that have worsened the situation for many living in extreme poverty. 
These crises demonstrate the need for lifesaving United States 
humanitarian relief around the world.
  For 63 years, our Nation's signature food donation program, Food for 
Peace, has fed more than 3 billion hungry people. This program has 
benefitted people facing some of the worst humanitarian disasters of 
the century, averting famine, and providing medical care for those who 
need it most.
  Today, USAID remains committed to providing for people in dire 
situations with emergency help. In countries like Yemen and Nigeria, 
where more than 70 percent of the population is facing severe 
starvation, USAID continues to step in to prevent famine and fight 
disease.
  The USAID mission is to provide emergency food assistance, is vital 
to many countries around the world, and is a key pillar of President 
Trump's National Security Strategy. Its purpose is to end the need for 
its own existence by responding to the disasters and helping our 
partners achieve self-reliance.
  A world without hunger is in America's very best interest. Hunger 
breeds instability and conflict. These programs represent a small 
investment to prevent future conflicts.
  I am proud that wheat is the most used commodity in U.S. hunger 
programs. Kansas is known as the breadbasket of the world and is the 
Nation's leading wheat producer. But today, while our growers have full 
grain elevators in my State, we still have four ongoing declared 
famines around the world. There is no reason that we cannot connect the 
starving with our ample supplies of food.
  I look forward to working with the House Agriculture Committee as we 
reauthorize the Food for Peace and other critical antihunger programs 
in the 2018 farm bill so that USAID and the United States Department of 
Agriculture can continue to help provide for the hungry and strengthen 
our national security across the world.

  Need for Broadband Deployment in Rural Communities
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to emphasize the need for 
broadband development in rural communities. More and more, we see a 
transition from ``brick and mortar'' to ``click and mortar'' 
establishments, with the world quickly moving from paper to digital.
  In rural America, the digital divide is becoming increasingly 
present. From limited connection speeds to locations entirely without 
service, these communities are lacking the same basic abilities as 
their urban counterparts. I am encouraged to see so many conversations 
happening in and around the Hill related to removing the barriers to 
connecting Americans, but there is still a lot of work to be done.
  I applaud the efforts of President Trump, Chairman Pai, and 
Agriculture Secretary Perdue in making rural broadband deployment a 
national priority as we head into 2018. I hope that my colleagues here 
in Congress will remember that all Americans deserve reasonable and 
comparable service, no matter where in the country they live.

                          ____________________



