

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 55 (Thursday, April 5, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 55 (Thursday, April 5, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H3058-H3059]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself and Mrs. Noem):
       H.R. 5426. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     with respect to conservation innovation grants and payments, 
     and

[[Page H3059]]

     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. MARINO:
       H.R. 5427. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to give a public safety and 
     community policing grant preference for applicants 
     prioritizing the hiring of school resource officers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself and Mr. Turner):
       H.R. 5428. A bill to impose sanctions on certain persons 
     responsible for the March 12, 2018, attack on Sergei and 
     Yulia Skripal, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, and Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, and Mr. 
             Duffy):
       H.R. 5429. A bill to reauthorize the rural emergency 
     medical services training and equipment assistance program 
     under section 330J of the Public Health Service Act; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico (for herself and 
             Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 5430. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat Puerto Rico as part of the United States for 
     purposes of determining whether property qualifies for 
     treatment as a like-kind exchange; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
       H.R. 5431. A bill to amend title VII of the Social Security 
     Act to require the President to transmit the annual budget of 
     the Social Security Administration without revisions to 
     Congress, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. HIMES:
       H.R. 5432. A bill to deauthorize a water resources project 
     at Bridgeport Harbor, Connecticut; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Yoho):
       H.R. 5433. A bill to require the Secretary of State to 
     design and establish a Vulnerability Disclosure Program (VDP) 
     to improve Department of State cybersecurity and a bug bounty 
     program to identify and report vulnerabilities of internet-
     facing information technology of the Department of State, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
       H.R. 5434. A bill to restrict the use of funds for kinetic 
     military operations in North Korea; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 5435. A bill to require Federal agencies to allocate 
     grant funding to States and localities based on the number of 
     United States citizens and legal residents as determined 
     under the decennial census, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 5436. A bill to amend title 11, District of Columbia 
     Official Code, to provide that grand and petit jurors serving 
     in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia shall 
     receive fees and expenses at the same rates paid to grand and 
     petit jurors appearing in the district courts of the United 
     States; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. KEATING (for himself and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H. Res. 810. A resolution reaffirming the trade and 
     investment partnership between the United States and the 
     European Union is critical to the economic and national 
     security of the United States; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.

                          ____________________



