

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H486-H487]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING YOUTH ENTREPRENEURS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Marshall) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize the nonprofit 
Youth Entrepreneurs for their commitment to preparing our students to 
meet the demands of today's workforce. This program provides a taste of 
the workforce in a variety of career paths for our emerging leaders.
  Youth Entrepreneurs was started in 1991, in Wichita, Kansas, with the 
goal to give young adults a foundation of knowledge, skills, and values 
for today's workplace. High school students who participate in the 
Youth Entrepreneurship Program receive a preparation course that covers 
the ins-and-outs of a variety of career fields and business etiquette.
  After students complete the class, they are sent to work at a 
business that matches their interest. The students are able to apply 
their learning from the classroom at the company they are paired with.
  For 26 years, this nonprofit has been dedicated to education and the 
success of our youth. Today, I want to make sure they know that their 
hard work has not gone unnoticed. Personally, I have seen and heard the 
success stories from these young adults, including my own godson, 
Patrick, who has participated in this organization.
  The program has expanded to 10 other States and graduated thousands 
of students. More than 80 percent of the participants say they want to 
attend college, and 60 percent of the students who have completed the 
requirements have either started their own business or desire to one 
day.
  I am proud of programs like Youth Entrepreneurs that are working to 
give our young adults a pathway for success. Even with unemployment at 
an all-time record low in Kansas, there are still 50,000 open jobs in 
our State. It is important that our students have access to 
organizations like Youth Entrepreneurs so that we can prepare Kansans 
to meet these high employment demands.


                      Kansas Meeting STEM Demands

  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss an industry that 
presents endless opportunities for America's workforce. As our Nation 
continues to advance technologically, it is imperative that our youth 
have the skills necessary to remain competitive in the workforce.
  Kansas is experiencing record employment across the State; however, 
one industry faces an increasingly high demand for skilled workers. 
Today, Kansas has more than 2,500 open computer science jobs, which is 
two times higher than the average State's demand. This year alone, the 
United States Department of Labor predicts employers will be unable to 
fill nearly 2.5 million job openings in STEM-related--or Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Math--professions.
  Last week, I met with the students from the North Central Kansas 
Technical College. NCKTC is ranked third in the Nation in job placement 
in tech-related fields. I am so proud to see colleges throughout my 
district working

[[Page H487]]

hard to meet the challenges that our labor force is facing today by 
offering more STEM-based curricula.
  Northwest Kansas Technical College offers programs and certification 
courses in computer science and coding, while Hutchinson Community 
College's Business and Industry Institute, also in my district, 
incorporates computer and science technology into their training 
programs.
  Emporia State University recognizes our future by offering STEM-
concentration classes for kindergarten through sixth-grade teachers. 
This program for teachers ensures that our youth will get a greater 
understanding of these technical skills at a younger age and ultimately 
be better equipped for future jobs in the STEM industry.
  It is important that we recognize these colleges' efforts and their 
computer science initiatives that will prepare students for success in 
these growing career fields.
  As a Member of Congress, I always strive to create opportunities for 
my constituents back home, but we must also take advantage of the 
opportunities at our doorstep. It is imperative that we continue to 
place a focus on STEM education. As computer science becomes a skill 
utilized in almost every industry, we must ensure our children are well 
prepared to meet these demands.

                          ____________________



