

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 49 (Wednesday, March 21, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1732]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       GOP ATTACKS ON HEALTHCARE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Moore) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, as you recall, 8 years ago this week, the 
Affordable Care Act became law. Since then, we have seen a historic 
increase in health coverage, with millions of people gaining access to 
better quality healthcare.
  Under the ACA, we saw the nonelderly uninsured rate cut almost in 
half, from 18 percent to 9.4 percent. Individuals previously denied 
coverage due to preexisting conditions saw life-changing improvements 
in benefits and coverage. Seniors, who are finally able to spend less 
on Medicare coverage and prescription drugs, had a chance at a secure 
and peaceful retirement.
  In my State alone, Wisconsin, 224,000 people became covered by ACA 
exchanges. From 2013 to 2016, the number of uninsured individuals 
declined by a whopping 42 percent.
  But we all know, Mr. Speaker, that hardworking Americans were taking 
advantage of this less expensive, superior healthcare coverage while, 
at the same time, the GOP embarked on their all-out war against the 
ACA. I mean, they took no prisoners, hell-bent on sabotaging, 
butchering, and repealing this law at the expense of our Nation's must 
vulnerable.
  I mean, let's get down into the nitty-gritty depths of this 
depravity.
  Mr. Speaker, how do you think, for example, that the GOP, this 
Congress, is going to pay for the $1.18 trillion deficit hole created 
by these tax cuts for the richest Americans and for corporations?
  Mr. Speaker, you well know the answer. What we are going to do is 
plunder Medicare and Medicaid. We are going to build public sentiment 
for these actions by demonizing the poor and targeting people who 
already have limited access to jobs and healthcare.
  Oh, come on now. We all know, Mr. Speaker, that you have been 
dreaming about slashing Medicaid ever since you were drinking at 
college keg parties. You said so yourself, Mr. Speaker.
  Well, now, with the help of our President, you are acting on your 
dream. Your dream is coming true. And we have already seen an influx of 
States, including my own State of Wisconsin, submit work requirement 
waivers. This administration has already approved three of them, and 
there are sure to be more.
  These attacks are unprecedented. Never has any administration gone 
this far to kick needy Americans off the only healthcare they have.
  My own State's Governor, Scott Walker, is spearheading one of the 
most restrictive welfare reform proposals in the Nation. He wants harsh 
work requirements, drug testing restrictions, and other barriers to our 
State's most at-risk families to access Social Services.
  These folks who are being targeted are already struggling to find 
work, and they are marginally connected to the workforce.
  How does throwing them off healthcare help?
  I say we need to uphold the ACA.

                          ____________________



