

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H3085-H3089]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TAX REFORM TRUTH TELLERS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentlewoman from California (Mrs. Mimi Walters) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.


                             General Leave

  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
that all Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and 
extend their remarks and include extraneous materials on the topic of 
my Special Order.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, in February, 
Congressman Paul Mitchell of Michigan and I established the Tax Reform 
Truth Tellers series to combat the misinformation being spread about 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  Today I had the distinct honor of joining my colleagues from the 
great States of California and New York to talk about the benefits this 
historic tax reform bill is having on our communities and local 
economies.
  When it comes to taxes, our two States have something in common: some 
of the highest State tax rates in the country.
  My district in Orange County, California, is home to great people, 
beautiful weather, and a rich history, but it is also located in the 
highest taxed State in the Nation.
  It is my duty to find ways to help my constituents build and achieve 
their American Dream, whether it is opening a small business, sending 
their children to college, or saving for retirement. Unfortunately, 
high taxes can prevent these dreams from becoming a reality.
  While the State legislatures in Sacramento and Albany keep placing

[[Page H3086]]

crushing tax burdens on their residents, congressional Republicans take 
action to lower the Federal tax burden on hardworking Americans and job 
creators in our districts.
  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act did just that by lowering rates and 
restoring the ability of American companies to compete globally.
  For too long, our Tax Code was broken. It imposed high tax rates on 
families, individuals, and small businesses; it was full of special 
interest loopholes; it contained a tax structure that encouraged 
companies to ship jobs overseas; and individuals, families, and job 
creators spent nearly 9 billion hours each year preparing their taxes, 
which cost the economy $400 billion in lost productivity.
  Last December, we addressed those issues and fixed our outdated Tax 
Code when we passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. This legislation lowers 
rates for nearly every taxpayer, doubles the standard deduction for 
individual and joint filers, and maintains popular deductions that will 
help working families in cities like Irvine, Mission Viejo, and Tustin.
  When the new withholding rates took effect in February, Orange County 
residents saw their take-home pay increase. Now, families and 
individuals are rightfully keeping more of their hard-earned paychecks.
  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has also encouraged economic growth and job 
creation. Since the tax reform package was signed into law, our economy 
has experienced its most robust growth rate since 2005, consumer and 
manufacturing confidence are near record highs, and just last month, 
the U.S. economy experienced its strongest month of job growth in 
nearly 2 years.
  Over 500 companies have given their employees new benefits, like pay 
raises, bonuses, and increased matching 401(k) contributions. In the 
last 3 months, 4 million American workers have received bonuses.
  Furthermore, the National Association for Business Economics has 
increased its 2018 economic growth projections to nearly 3 percent. 
This positive economic news is a direct result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act.
  Mr. Speaker, the results of tax reform are exceeding our 
expectations, especially in my district. Some were concerned about the 
potential ramifications this bill would have on Orange County, but in 
the last few months, our community and local economy has flourished. 
Orange County residents are keeping more of their paychecks, allowing 
them to spend and invest their own money as they see fit; after all, it 
is their money, not the government's.
  Local businesses are benefiting, allowing them to create jobs and 
provide higher wages for their employees. One example is the Walt 
Disney Company, Orange County's largest employer and the place where I 
held my first job as a senior in high school. With their savings under 
the new Tax Code, Disney gave each of its 125,000 employees a $1,000 
cash bonus. Disney also established a new higher education initiative 
that will cover tuition costs for hourly employees.
  STERIS, a medical device company, has several facilities throughout 
the State of California, including one in Tustin. Following the 
enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, STERIS gave its employees a 
$1,000 bonus. Throughout the country, millions of Americans are 
benefiting from tax reform, and STERIS is an example of a company 
making those benefits a reality for my constituents in Tustin, 
California.
  These Orange County companies reflect just a small sampling of the 
success the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is having across the Nation.
  Today, my colleagues from California and New York will share their 
stories from their districts about how their communities and local 
economies are thriving due to the new tax law.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Knight), a 
United States Army veteran, a member of the House Armed Services 
Committee, and a representative of California's 25th District.
  Mr. KNIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for the opportunity 
to speak about the impacts of the recently enacted tax law.
  The reduction in the corporate tax rate enables U.S. companies to 
compete on a level playing field with foreign businesses without having 
to move their headquarters abroad.

  Here in the U.S., in each of our districts, they can invest their 
savings back into their businesses. This is because the reform changes 
the equation for what will make them more profitable. The Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act now means that expanding factories and payrolls here in the 
U.S. make better business sense.
  Northrop Grumman, which has a significant presence in my district, 
California's 25th, announced it would increase capital expenditures by 
10 percent and provide a $1,000 per year contribution for each of their 
employees' retirement accounts.
  Millions of Americans have received increases in their paychecks. 
Check your check.
  The Treasury Department estimated that 90 percent of Americans will 
now receive more take-home pay.
  The reform reinforced positive trends we have experienced over the 
past few years. U.S. jobless claims have fallen to their lowest level 
since 1973.
  Setting politics aside, this bill lifts burdens on U.S. businesses 
and taxpayers to allow everyone to invest more and save more.
  We can all see the effects of these changes today, and we will 
continue to see them play out over the coming months and years.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Speaker Ryan, Chairman Brady, and their staffs 
for their organizing an inclusive, cooperative process in drafting this 
bill and driving it forward.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Valadao), my friend and a member of the 
Committee on Agriculture and the representative of California's 21st 
District.
  Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to talk about 
something that is so important.
  We always talk about the different things we can do in Congress to 
help our constituents. Something I spend a lot of time on is water. It 
is very important to help my local community survive, it is obviously 
important for agriculture, but it is very important for those who live 
and breathe in the Central Valley. Delivering water to their homes is 
something that some of us outside of the area might not see threatened, 
but in the Central Valley, it is something we do see.

                              {time}  1945

  But tax reform is something that has a real impact on people every 
single day. The Central Valley happens to be what I would say, and I 
think a lot of people would agree, some of the hardest working people 
in the United States.
  When you drive throughout the Central Valley and you see people out 
in the fields working really hard in some of the warmest weather, some 
of the hottest weather, it has a real impact on people; and giving 
these people an opportunity to be able to keep more of their money is 
something I think is very important.
  While I don't know if this coming week people will see a simplified 
system, because it hasn't taken effect yet, I know that people who work 
really hard throughout the Central Valley are already starting to see 
an increase in their paychecks. I have heard it myself as I have gone 
around the district talking to constituents; people stopping me in the 
grocery store bringing up the fact that they are already seeing things 
in their paychecks. I have even had employers tell me that their 
employees walked up to them and talked a little bit about the 
difference they are seeing.
  The Central Valley is an area that needs this more than a lot of 
other areas. When you look at the median income, Central Valley, or at 
least the 21st Congressional District, is about $40,000. So when you 
talk about doubling the standard deduction--before this tax plan went 
into place, about 83 percent of the people filed the standard 
deduction. Now, with doubling that standard deduction, you are going to 
see upwards of 90 to 95 percent of people filing the standard 
deduction.
  What does that mean? That means, in the past, people only keep about 
$12,000 of their first income tax-free. Now they are going to go 
forward and have the opportunity to earn $24,000 without being taxed. 
So the first $24,000 isn't going to be touched, and that is impressive.

[[Page H3087]]

  Then, throughout the Central Valley, a lot of folks, with their 
children, having families, something that, myself, with three kids, 
something I am very proud of, we are doubling the child tax credit. We 
are going from $1,000 to $2,000. That is going to have an impact on 
about 64,000 people in the 21st Congressional District.
  Twenty-five thousand constituents own small businesses. This new law 
will help them grow their businesses and help them be more successful. 
In fact, some economists say that this new law will help create about 
111,000 jobs in the State of California.
  This tax bill is going to have a positive impact throughout the 21st 
Congressional District. We are already starting to see it now, and we 
are going to see it going forward.
  As this new bill takes effect, people throughout the 21st 
Congressional District will see an annual tax savings of about $1,300, 
almost $1,400. This is real relief for people; and no matter what 
anyone else goes out and says, this is not peanuts. This is not a small 
amount.
  $1,400 has a real impact on people being able to buy groceries; being 
able to save for their kids' education; being able to keep their 
families comfortable, if it is running the air conditioner or keeping 
the house comfortable. These are all things that have a real impact on 
people's everyday lives, so I am thrilled to be able to come here and 
talk a little bit about the positive impact that we are having 
throughout the 21st, and I am looking forward to seeing how much more 
we do.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman, my friend from southern 
California, for the opportunity to be here and play a role in this.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the 
gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Tenney), a member of the House Financial 
Services Committee and the Representative of New York's 22nd District.
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my colleague from California 
and her hard work on this really important issue.
  Taxes are, of course, extremely important in New York State as being 
one of the highest taxed States in the Nation, along with California, 
an undistinguished honor that we don't want to have.
  But I rise today to actually recognize the thousands of hardworking 
families across the 22nd District of New York, and throughout upstate, 
who have felt the real impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  Before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, our Tax Code was broken. It was 
riddled with loopholes that penalized success and hurt hardworking 
families and hardworking taxpayers. Our middle-income families were the 
ones who suffered as the economy and wages remained stagnant.
  As I traveled from Sandy Creek to Vestal, Little Falls to Cortland, I 
heard real stories from families, small-business owners, single 
parents, veterans, and seniors detailing the damage of our oppressive 
Tax Code. It held our small businesses back, crippled our family farms, 
and left our families feeling hopeless and overwhelmed.
  That is why we stepped up to the plate, took our constituents' 
concerns and stories to Washington, and passed legislation that 
reflected the values of fairness and hard work. No longer is our 
economy stagnant. No longer will American businesses and families 
suffer under an unfair and oppressive Tax Code from Washington.
  Here in New York, tax reform has provided once-in-a-generation relief 
from the failed status quo, a status quo that was created in part and 
mostly by Albany politicians whose seemingly only intent is to tax and 
spend, and I dare say, waste our hard-earned money.
  Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the typical middle class family of 
four in New York's 22nd District, which I represent, will see a tax cut 
of $2,439. Imagine what kind of money that could do for a family of 
four.
  Now, families will have the opportunity and means to save for 
college, plan for the future, invest in their retirement, and provide 
their children with increased educational opportunities.
  Families know how to spend their resources much better than the 
Federal Government. That is why we are putting real money back into the 
pockets of hardworking families, money they earned, and money they 
deserve to keep.

  Throughout the debate on tax reform, I, along with my fellow 
colleagues from New York, fought an uphill battle to include provisions 
facing elimination that are vital to seniors, single parents, 
struggling families, and overly burdened job creators.
  One of the key provisions that we New Yorkers fought tirelessly to 
include is the State and local tax deduction or, as you heard often, 
the SALT deduction. I would like to thank Chairman Brady and everyone 
on the Ways and Means Committee for understanding the importance of 
this deduction and what it means to my constituents. As a result of our 
advocacy, nearly all of my constituents in the 22nd District will be 
able to continue to claim a SALT deduction.
  It is also flexible, which means it can be used for property sales or 
income tax, and not just restricted to local tax.
  In the 22nd District, 99 percent of itemizers deduct less than 
$10,000 in property taxes. This provision will cover the overwhelming 
number of property owners who own homes of less than $450,000 in value, 
which is a very nice home in my district, a little different than in 
the coastal areas and sometimes you will see in the southern tier of 
New York.
  The reason the SALT deduction matters stems from Albany politicians 
who have no regard for the taxpayers they represent. For example, all 
eight of the counties that I represent are in the top 36 highest 
property tax rates compared to home value nationwide per county.
  This bill provides relief on the Federal level, while finally taking 
a step to encourage fiscal responsibility from Albany. I have always 
put the taxpayers I represent first, and it is long past time for 
politicians in Albany to do the same, and we are hoping that this bill 
will incentivize them to do that to help our taxpayers.
  The benefits from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act do not stop there. 
Earlier this year, I heard from Frank Suits. Frank is the president and 
CEO of Suit-Kote Corporation, a family owned, multigenerational paving 
company in Cortland, New York. Frank wrote to me to share the impact 
tax reform has had on his business and nearly 800 employees.
  First, in direct response to the new tax law, Suit-Kote announced 
plans to match the Federal tax cut and provide its employees with a 2 
percent retroactive pay increase and has begun to accelerate 401(k) 
contributions for 2018 by 4 months to provide employees additional 
funds in their retirement accounts.
  Our goal in passing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was to deliver this 
type of relief to hardworking families like those employed by Suit-
Kote, and it was an honor for me to actually go to Suit-Kote and meet 
with the employees and hear from them, firsthand, just how great their 
benefits were from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  We also heard that NBT Bank, a local bank in my region, with dozens 
of locations throughout the 22nd District, has used tax reform to 
invest in its employees. NBT decided to raise the starting hourly rate 
of pay from $11 to $15 an hour, without a mandate coming from the 
government, merely because of the benefits from tax reform. Employees 
earning $50,000 or less will receive a permanent minimum increase of 5 
percent this year.
  Another great little business in my community, fairly new, started by 
a young guy, A&P Masters Images, LLC, in Utica, a small printing 
business, has hired another full-time graphic designer and is now 
weighing the options of putting on an addition to its building in the 
city of Utica.
  Howard Potter, CEO of A&P Masters, said with everyone's increase in 
pay he can already see a morale boost coming from his employees. He 
said the end-of-the-year tax relief for businesses will help them 
afford to be more aggressive with investing in their growth, to build 
or buy, or hire more staff, and buy more equipment.
  While these companies are based in the 22nd District, there are 
dozens of other companies with branches in my district that are reaping 
the benefits of tax reform. For example, CVS is increasing its wages 
for hourly employees from $9 to $11 an hour.

[[Page H3088]]

  Home Depot, with a location right next to my New Hartford office, is 
giving employees a bonus of up to $1,000, with the chairman and CEO of 
the company stating it was directly made possible by the tax reform 
bill.
  Lowe's and Walmart are also giving back to their employees as a 
direct result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. All three of these 
corporations have numerous locations across my district and employ 
hundreds of hardworking citizens throughout NY's 22nd.
  Critics of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act have called this law and its 
benefits crumbs, or Armageddon, as you famously heard. They have also 
called this law a handout to the 1 percent. Time and again, they have 
been proven wrong.
  Just this past weekend, our very own New York Post declared, and I am 
paraphrasing: GOP's tax cut isn't actually a gift to the rich. They 
come to that conclusion from an analysis done by the nonpartisan Tax 
Policy Center, who found that the top 20 percent of wage earners will 
pay 87 percent of all Federal income taxes in 2018, up from 84 percent 
last year. Additionally, the analysis found that most families earning 
under $50,000 a year will pay almost no Federal income taxes at all, 
and many will see a refund.
  Mr. Speaker, this does not sound like middle class Armageddon to me. 
These benefits certainly do not sound like crumbs. This is money that 
can be used to get ahead on car payments, to pay rent, to pay 
mortgages, so much more that everyday Americans struggle with in a 
tough economy.
  Businesses like the ones I mentioned are proof that providing 
desperately needed relief from the Federal side for the failed tax-and-
spend status quo that we see in New York is the most effective way to 
improve the lives of Americans.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from California for her advocacy 
on this and for asking us to join.
  One added note I would like to say is we found also from the 
nonpartisan Tax Policy Center that New York is going to be one of the 
gainers. We are actually going to see a growth in our economy and a 
growth in jobs, in spite of what Albany may or may not do; but we are 
really grateful for that, and I just want to say it is an honor to 
support the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and to advocate for the things in 
that bill that helped our district.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Collins), a fellow member of the House 
Energy and Commerce Committee and the Representative of the 27th 
District of New York.
  Mr. COLLINS of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the 
impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the impact that is having in 
New York's 27th Congressional District.
  When Republicans in Congress and President Donald Trump started 
working on tax reform, Democrats immediately began attacking the bill 
before it was even written. They deliberately spread lies to the 
American people, which caused chaos and confusion, in an effort to 
derail our progress.
  The working families in western New York now know the truth because 
they have seen an increase in their paychecks. The Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act is making our economy stronger and benefiting American families and 
businesses, both big and small.
  The business community is responding and taking action by giving 
raises, bonuses, and other employee benefits as a direct result of tax 
reform. In western New York, thousands of workers are reaping the 
benefits.
  M&T Bank, in Buffalo, increased the base wages for hourly employees, 
gave all employees 40 hours a year in paid time off to volunteer in 
their community, and significantly increased contributions to the M&T 
Foundation.
  Pioneer Credit Recovery in Arcade, New York, gave a $1,000 bonus to 
each of their 800 employees.
  Evans Bank in Hamburg also gave $1,000 bonuses to non-senior level 
employees and increased charitable donations.
  Everett J. Prescott, Incorporated, gave $1,000 bonuses to employees 
with more than a year of service and $250 bonuses to employees with 
less than a year of service.
  Financial Institutions of Warsaw gave employees a bonus of $500.
  LiDestri Food and Drink in Rochester gave all of their 1,200 
employees in their five U.S. facilities an extra full paycheck.
  Environmental Construction Group in Albion, New York, gave each of 
their 50 employees a $500 bonus.
  National chains that employ many of my constituents have also given 
bonuses: T.J.Maxx, Walmart, AT&T, Home Depot, Chipotle, Lowe's, 
Starbucks, U-Haul, FedEx, Apple, and the list goes on and on.

                              {time}  2000

  The liberal left calls these pay increases and bonuses crumbs, but my 
constituents know tax reform is a significant win.
  Because Republicans have reformed our complicated and outdated Tax 
Code, our children and grandchildren will be able to participate in a 
growing economy. The truth is tax reform is a positive step in making 
America great again.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Denham), my friend and colleague, and a 
member of the House Agriculture and Transportation and Infrastructure 
Committees, who represents the 10th District of California.
  Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, our previous Tax Code was ineffective and 
outdated. For too long, Americans' history of entrepreneurs and 
aspiring job creators has been in jeopardy.
  The United States now ranks 12th worldwide in business openings. For 
the first time in 35 years, American business closures outnumbered 
business openings--the first time in 35 years. That means jobs were 
vanishing faster than they were being created.
  For decades, our country's families have been burdened by countless 
hours of paperwork just putting taxes together, confusing tax rules 
that you needed an accountant or a lawyer to look at, and unsustainable 
rates that cut into everyday hardworking paychecks.
  The Code also did little to encourage U.S. companies to invest right 
here. Instead, it was only successful in creating new loopholes, 
exemptions, and disincentives that pushed more profits and jobs 
overseas. The Tax Code just wasn't working. That is why I was proud to 
have supported and coauthored H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which 
tackled each of these separate issues in ways to support American 
families and U.S. job growth.
  In the midst of all the rhetoric around here, the partisanship, the 
Washington spin outside of this building, it is important that we don't 
lose sight of who actually won in this. It is the people in my 
district. People in places all across the country. It is Americans who 
won by changing the Tax Code.
  This bill will allow businesses to grow, to continue to give bonuses 
and raises. Small businesses will now have the flexibility to make new 
hires and investments, thanks to the new 20 percent deduction for 
qualified pass-through companies. It is a deduction to make sure we are 
hiring new people.
  They will also be able to immediately write off the full cost of 
purchases of new and used equipment, making their goals to expand 
operations a reality. This gives them the opportunity to take the money 
that they are making, the profits that they are making to go out and 
buy new equipment, buy new supplies, and be able to hire more people 
and bring them into their company.
  The bill is also good for agriculture. That is my district's biggest 
economic driver. It repealed the harmful estate tax and includes 
supportive export provisions that help our local farmers compete and 
sell their crops on the national market.
  The bill is good for our communities. It creates a new pathway for 
investments to flow directly into lower income areas. These newly 
designated opportunity zones will receive the necessary capital 
infusion to jump-start their economies and support our local residents.
  Most importantly, the bill is good for individuals and families. It 
cuts rates across the board and doubles the standard deduction. It also 
bolsters the value of the child tax credit.
  Now, a lot of people have asked me: What is the standard deduction? 
Most people just take all of their information for the year and they 
give to it their accountant or they put it into the

[[Page H3089]]

system and try to understand the old Tax Code.
  The standard deduction was something that most people in my district 
did before, but by doubling it, 94 percent of the people in my district 
will now utilize the standard deduction. This affects everybody.
  Other commonsense provisions, like the earned income tax credit, 
adoption tax credit, charitable deductions, and retirement savings 
options are all preserved under the bill. That ensures that families 
can keep more of their own money.
  Now, since this bill passed, being home in the district, I have been 
to the bank and talked to people. In the grocery store, people have 
come up to me and told me what a difference this has made in their 
paycheck--$50 a week, $100 a paycheck, $200 a month. It is real money 
adding up to the people in my district.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have supported this bill for the expansion 
it is going to enable in our businesses, for the new jobs it is going 
to create, and for the people who are going to see it in their 
paychecks every paycheck.
  I recently did a roundtable. We called in businesses and tax 
accountants and experts on the Tax Code, all together, not only to look 
at what this new bill has done, but specifically how we would see job 
growth in our community. Time and time again, I heard from businesses 
independently owned that talked about the expansion that they are going 
to see.
  We will see a great expansion in growth across this country: seeing 
money that was invested overseas coming back and reinvested here, 
markets that we have lost that will now be coming back. Manufacturing, 
building things again, that is what this bill is all about, supporting 
American families and the pursuit of the American Dream.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have supported the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock), a fellow Californian and a 
member of the House Budget Committee, who represents the Fourth 
District of California.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to ask ourselves 
how legislation is actually doing once it has passed; and 4 months 
after tax reform, I think it is time to reflect on that.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from California for 
organizing this time tonight.

  In my California district, the average family is paying $1,900 less 
Federal income tax this coming year. That means 1,900 more dollars that 
they can spend to meet their own needs.
  I want to urge everyone to visit a website called 
taxplancalculator.com. There, you can put your own tax numbers in and 
calculate how your family will fare under the new tax law this year. 
Everyone I have directed to taxplancalculator.com has come back happily 
surprised.
  But the real importance of tax reform is expanding our overall 
economy. That is the rising tide that lifts all boats.
  One provision of the measure allowed companies to write off the full 
cost of equipment purchases when they make the purchase. But what does 
that mean in real life?
  Well, Ken Steers is president of Freight Solution Providers, a local 
shipping company in my district that provides worldwide transportation 
logistics for businesses large and small. He tells me that since the 
tax reform took effect, his shipping orders for manufacturing equipment 
have gone through the roof and haven't let up.
  Before the tax reform, our corporate tax rate was 35 percent, the 
highest in the industrialized world. We reduced it to 21 percent.
  Aslam Malik is CEO of AMPAC Fine Chemicals in Sacramento and El 
Dorado Counties. They produce the active ingredient in several cancer 
and epilepsy drugs. He said they could outcompete their European 
competitors in terms of quality and technology and service, but many 
customers told him that even if their product was free, the American 
tax made AMPAC noncompetitive. Well, I checked back with Aslam this 
week. They have already added $2 million to their budget for expansion 
because, literally, a whole new world of business opportunities has 
opened up for them.
  Now, the left says this is just tax relief for the rich. Obviously, 
they don't understand that this is precisely what produces higher pay, 
better jobs, greater opportunities, and stronger financial security for 
every American.
  I attended the Oakhurst Rotary Club last week. They have a tradition 
of donating dollars to the club as they report good news in their own 
lives.
  One Rotarian had been out of work for nearly 2 years. He was on the 
verge of despair. With tears in his eyes, he announced to the group 
that he had just landed his dream job with Pfizer pharmaceuticals and 
that he would now be able to keep his home and stay in the town that he 
loved. Relief was written all over his face.
  To be sure, our economy still faces many threats--trade wars, bad 
monetary policy, runaway Federal spending--but, clearly, the tax reform 
is working. From what people are telling me, if it isn't yet morning 
again in America, it is at least a new dawn.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, 90 percent of Americans 
will see an increase in take-home pay because of the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act.
  Under this new law, a typical middle-income family of four will see 
an average tax cut of over $2,000. Those cuts will vary from State to 
State. In California, a family of four will see a cut of $2,840, and in 
New York, $3,129.
  Individuals and families will take this money and put it toward their 
retirements, mortgage payments, or college savings.
  There are over 400 Chipotle locations in California. In fact, 
California has the most Chipotle restaurants in the country. Since the 
Tax Cuts and Job Act passed, Chipotle is providing hourly and salaried 
workers with bonuses up to $1,000 or a stock grant. The company is also 
improving employee benefits and has announced plans to provide 
additional paid parental leave. These bonuses and increased benefits 
make a big difference in people's lives.
  Chipotle also plans to spend $50 million to renovate its stores. This 
means opportunities for construction companies and numerous small 
subcontractors, which will invigorate local economies, including my 
home of Orange County.
  Tax reform is spurring the free market economy to provide opportunity 
and an increased standard of living for all Americans.
  Mr. Speaker, according to a recent survey, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 
has significantly improved the economic outlook for small businesses. 
The survey recorded historic highs in the small business confidence 
index, showing that support for tax reform is growing within the small 
business community.
  In fact, small businesses have rallied around the new tax policy, 
with over half of the country's small-business owners viewing the law 
as having a positive effect on their business. Nearly half of small 
businesses expect to see immediate tax benefits this year. Small 
businesses are the leading job creators in our country and are the 
engines of economic growth.
  Mr. Speaker, McDonald's is one of the largest employers in 
California, with over 1,000 locations. Following the enactment of the 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, McDonald's announced plans to contribute $150 
million to cover tuition costs, expanding its current Archways to 
Opportunity education program.
  Nearly 400,000 employees are eligible for benefits that can be used 
toward college or trade school. McDonald's now offers $2,500 per year 
in tuition benefits for crew members, and $3,000 per year in tuition 
benefits for store managers.
  Thousands of McDonald's employees will benefit from this enhanced 
program, and it is thanks to tax reform that companies like McDonald's 
are able to do more to empower their employees.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



