

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1968]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing.


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 
10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Oversight of HUD.''


               committee on energy and natural resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Theodore J. 
Garrish, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary (International 
Affairs), and James Edward Campos, of Nevada, to be Director of the 
Office of Minority Economic Impact, both of the Department of Energy, 
and James Reilly, of Colorado, to be Director of the United States 
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior; to be immediately 
followed by a hearing to examine S. 2539, to amend the Energy and Water 
Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015, to 
reauthorize certain projects to increase Colorado River System water, 
S. 2560, to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to establish a 
program to facilitate the transfer to non-Federal ownership of 
appropriate reclamation projects or facilities, and S. 2563, to improve 
the water supply and drought resilience of the United States.


               committee on energy and natural resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``2018 Western Water Supply 
Outlook.''


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing 
entitled, ``The President's 2018 Trade Policy Agenda.''


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing on the following nominations: John B. Nalbandian, of 
Kentucky, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, Kari 
A. Dooley, to be United States District Judge for the District of 
Connecticut, Dominic W. Lanza, to be United States District Judge for 
the District of Arizona, Jill Aiko Otake, to be United States District 
Judge for the District of Hawaii, and Thomas T. Cullen, to be United 
States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, Robert K. Hur, to 
be United States Attorney for the District of Maryland, and David C. 
Joseph, to )e United States Attorney for the Western District of 
Louisiana, all of the Department of Justice.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 2 p.m. to conduct 
a closed hearing.

                          ____________________



