

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 18 (Thursday, January 25, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S516-S517]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       RECOGNIZING THE ALASKA PACIFIC UNIVERSITY NORDIC SKI TEAM

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, every week, I have been coming to the 
floor, going on 2 years now, to talk about what makes my State, the 
great State of Alaska, such an amazing place to live--gorgeous, 
untouched mountains, the glaciers, the wildlife. I have live web cams 
in my office. For people who want to see the bears, walruses, the 
salmon spawning, bears scooping up these amazing fish from the choked 
streams, please come on by. Most of that happens during the spring, 
summer, and fall. The winter, of course, is the longest season in 
Alaska. In my opinion, it is one of the best times to experience our 
State.
  For those watching on TV or in the Gallery, we want to welcome you to 
Alaska. Come on by. You will have the trip of a lifetime. I guarantee 
it.
  It is truly the people who make my State such a truly special place. 
What we try to do each week is talk about

[[Page S517]]

some of those people in what we have termed our ``Alaskan of the Week'' 
celebration, to talk about community, to talk about so many Alaskans 
who are helping not only their State and their community but their 
country, generous yet tough and competitive people who make up our 
Wonderful State.
  Many of them get very excited when the snow starts to fall. They 
strap on their skis and they fly through the snow. One group of 
Alaskans who every winter strap on their skis and train--actually train 
all year round and compete on the hundreds of miles of Anchorage's 
trail system--is the Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Program. 
Hands down, it is the very best ski team in America. They are our 
Alaskans of the Week.
  Let me tell you a little bit about the APU Nordic Ski Program. Led by 
Coach Erik Flora, Alaska's APU Nordic Ski team year after year produces 
some of our Nation's finest athletes, who compete in races all across 
the world, including the upcoming Winter Olympics in Korea. As I 
mentioned, year after year, APU athletes are simply the best cross-
country skiers in the Nation. Their depth of talent was put on display 
earlier this month at the U.S. Cross Country Championships in 
Anchorage, where they took 11 out of the 24 podium spots in the senior 
races and 8 out of the 24 junior podium spots. Think about that. One 
team dominated the U.S. Cross Country Championships this year.
  They train year-round. In the summer, the ski team trains on Eagle 
Glacier, accessible by a 10-minute helicopter ride from Girdwood, AK. 
As the Anchorage Daily News put it, this unique training area has 
``been a springboard to APU's international and domestic success [and 
dominance]. Flora and his staff have groomed serpentined, undulating 
trails there that mimic [international] courses'' on a glacier in 
Alaska in the summer. That is great training. It is year-round.
  In addition to training and coaching these world-class athletes, the 
APU Nordic Ski Center also has a popular junior program, which helps 
develop the next generation of Olympic skiers.
  I have had the honor to get to know some of these skiers, these 
wonderful athletes, over the past few years. They certainly would make 
Alaskans proud, but I think they would make all Americans proud. They 
are great young men and women who are dedicated, disciplined, humble, 
hard-working, and very smart. They are students; they are very, very 
good students. I even had the opportunity to go and train with them 
occasionally. I am more of a downhill skier than a cross-country skier. 
I went with them in the fall, when there wasn't any snow on the ground, 
to do some mountain interval training, running with them up and down 
the mountains. To witness and train with these world-class athletes was 
an amazing experience. I must admit, it was a difficult experience for 
me. I think I was smoked after about 10 minutes with them, and they had 
about a 2-hour workout session on the mountain. It gave me a sense of 
how hard they work and what dedicated, world-class athletes we have in 
my hometown.
  Next month, several of these APU skiers will travel to Korea to 
represent the United States of America at the Winter Olympics, the way 
they have in previous Olympics. They are top skiers for America. Let me 
name a few.
  First and I would say foremost, Kikkan Randall, America's most 
decorated cross-country skier in U.S. history and an Alaskan icon--she 
will participate in her fifth Winter Olympics. Let me say that again. 
She will participate in her fifth Winter Olympics. That is an 
incredible record for any American athlete, winter or summer games. She 
is also a wonderful person. She is very, very community-oriented. 
Alongside her will be APU teammates Sadie and Erik Bjornsen--they are 
brother and sister--Rosie Brennan, and maybe, hopefully, even a few 
more. Additionally, their APU teammate Jess Yeaton, who was born in 
Australia but grew up in Alaska, will ski for the Australian cross-
country ski team. You are getting the picture. This is a group of 
people who are going to do very, very well in the Olympics and are 
going to represent our country and other countries proudly.
  Cross-country skiing is woven into the fabric of Alaska's winter 
community. It brings people together, and it helps build community. So 
many of our skiers, including and especially the APU team, are also 
generous and kind in helping others learn how to ski and graciously 
host skiers from all across the country, as was on full display during 
the recent U.S. Cross Country Championships.
  On behalf of all Alaskans--really, on behalf of all U.S. Senators--I 
wish the team good luck in Korea. We will be watching. I know you will 
make Alaskans and our fellow Americans very proud as you compete on the 
world stage once again. Once again, thanks for all you do. Thanks for 
your tremendous hard work and dedication. And to the APU Nordic ski 
team, thanks again for being our Alaskans of the Week.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  (The remarks of Mr. Hatch pertaining to the introduction of S. 2344 
are printed in today's Record under ``Statements on Introduced Bills 
and Joint Resolutions.'')

                          ____________________



