

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 14, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1735]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. WARREN:
       S. 2544. A bill to stop financial institution crime, 
     require certain officers of companies to certify that they 
     have conducted due diligence relating to criminal conduct or 
     civil fraud, create accountability in deferred prosecution 
     agreements, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr. Udall, Mr. Tester, Ms. 
             Cortez Masto, Ms. Warren, and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 2545. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize a special behavioral health program for Indians; to 
     the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms. Warren):
       S. 2546. A bill to provide grants to States to encourage 
     the implementation and maintenance of firearms licensing 
     requirements, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 2547. A bill to provide assistance for educational 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 2548. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish mental 
     health care to certain former members of the Armed Forces who 
     are not otherwise eligible to receive such care, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Schumer):
       S. 2549. A bill to designate the United States Postal 
     Service located at 1234 Saint Johns Place in Brooklyn, New 
     York, as the ``Major Robert Odell Owens Post Office''; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Schumer):
       S. 2550. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 99 Macombs Place in New 
     York, New York, as the ``Tuskegee Airman Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CORKER (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 2551. A bill to modernize United States international 
     food assistance programs made available through the Food for 
     Peace Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 2552. A bill to amend the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     increase the maximum amounts of Farm Service Agency loans for 
     years in which those maximum amounts are insufficient to 
     satisfy demand, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Wyden, 
             Mr. Cassidy, Mrs. McCaskill, and Mr. Barrasso):
       S. 2553. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to prohibit health plans and pharmacy benefit managers 
     from restricting pharmacies from informing individuals 
     regarding the prices for certain drugs and biologicals; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Barrasso, Ms. Stabenow, and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 2554. A bill to ensure that health insurance issuers and 
     group health plans do not prohibit pharmacy providers from 
     providing certain information to enrollees; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
       S. 2555. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     establish the Dairy Farm Sustainability Price Loss Coverage 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.

                          ____________________



