

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 4 (Monday, January 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 4 (Monday, January 8, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H18]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

                      [Submitted January 3, 2018]

           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana (for himself, Mr. Messer, and 
             Mr. Rokita):
       H. Res. 675. A resolution condemning the Government of Iran 
     for its violence against demonstrators and calling for 
     peaceful resolution to the concerns of the citizens of Iran; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                      [Submitted January 5, 2018]

           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. Engel):
       H. Res. 676. A resolution supporting the rights of the 
     people of Iran to free expression, condemning the Iranian 
     regime for its crackdown on legitimate protests, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                      [Submitted January 8, 2018]

           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Deutch, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Diaz-Balart, and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen):
       H.R. 4737. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     require the air transportation security programs established 
     by airport operators to contain certain elements; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. EMMER:
       H.R. 4738. A bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 
     1940 to provide complaint and burden of proof requirements 
     for certain actions for breach of fiduciary duty; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 4739. A bill to provide dedicated funding for the 
     national infrastructure investment program and the capital 
     investment grant program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 4740. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the limitation on the deduction for certain 
     taxes, including state and local property and income taxes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.R. 4741. A bill to require the Postmaster General to 
     designate a single, unique ZIP code for particular 
     communities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H. Res. 677. A resolution providing for a committee to 
     notify the President of the assembly of the House of 
     Representatives; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H. Res. 678. A resolution to inform the Senate that a 
     quorum of the House has assembled; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H. Res. 679. A resolution providing for the hour of meeting 
     of the House; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Gaetz, 
             Mr. Dunn, Mr. Ross, Mr. Mast, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. 
             Lawson of Florida, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Rutherford, Mr. Soto, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mrs. Demings, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Posey, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida, and Mr. 
             DeSantis):
       H. Res. 680. A resolution celebrating the 40th anniversary 
     of Keiser University and recognizing the university as a 
     vital institution of higher education, developing a diverse 
     student population that impacts numerous aspects of the State 
     of Florida and the global economy; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



