

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S581-S582]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 116

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 116, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to permit veterans who have a service-
connected, permanent disability rated as total to travel on military 
aircraft in the same manner and to the same extent as retired members 
of the Armed Forces entitled to such travel.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and accelerate 
development and availability, of promising childhood cancer treatments, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 363

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 363, a bill to 
revise the authorized route of the North Country National Scenic Trail 
in northeastern Minnesota and to extend the trail into Vermont to 
connect with the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to 
prevent the sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring 
the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 660

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 660, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to fulfill the Federal mandate to 
provide higher educational opportunities for Native American Indians.


                                 S. 819

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 819, a bill to amend the 
Fair

[[Page S582]]

Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effective remedies to 
victims of discrimination in the payment of wages on the basis of sex, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 842

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 842, a bill to prohibit 
Federal agencies and Federal contractors from requesting that an 
applicant for employment disclose criminal history record information 
before the applicant has received a conditional offer, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 982

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 982, a bill to amend 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to require mandatory 
reporting of incidents of child abuse or neglect, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1152

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1152, a bill to 
create protections for depository institutions that provide financial 
services to cannabis-related businesses, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1158, a bill to help prevent acts of genocide and other atrocity 
crimes, which threaten national and international security, by 
enhancing United States Government capacities to prevent, mitigate, and 
respond to such crises.


                                S. 1257

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1257, a bill to amend title 
IV of the Social Security Act to require States to adopt an electronic 
system to help expedite the placement of children in foster care or 
guardianship, or for adoption, across State lines, and to provide 
funding to aid States in developing such a system, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1509

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1509, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to authorize an extension of 
exclusivity periods for certain drugs that are approved for a new 
indication for a rare disease or condition, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1754

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1754, a bill to reauthorize 
section 340H of the Public Health Service Act to continue to encourage 
the expansion, maintenance, and establishment of approved graduate 
medical residency programs at qualified teaching health centers, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1759

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1759, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to extend authorities relating to homeless 
veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1909

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1909, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to establish a system to educate 
individuals approaching Medicare eligibility, to simplify and modernize 
the eligibility enrollment process, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1947

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1947, a bill to improve food 
safety, to encourage greater production of agricultural commodities for 
use in the locality of production, to reauthorize and expand Department 
of Agriculture support of those efforts, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2107

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2107, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to require the Under Secretary of Health to 
report major adverse personnel actions involving certain health care 
employees to the National Practitioner Data Bank and to applicable 
State licensing boards, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2147

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2147, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund to establish 
a Pension Rehabilitation Administration within the Department of the 
Treasury to make loans to multiemployer defined benefit plans, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2227

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2227, a bill to reauthorize the 
Money Follows the Person Demonstration Program.


                                S. 2269

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2269, a bill to reauthorize 
the Global Food Security Act of 2016 for 5 additional years.


                                S. 2278

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2278, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
provide grants to improve health care in rural areas.
  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2278, supra.


                                S. 2335

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2335, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to issue 
permits for recreation services on lands managed by Federal agencies, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2340

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2340, a bill to 
establish the Federal Labor-Management Partnership Council.


                                S. 2345

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2345, a 
bill to amend the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 to 
provide additional resources to State and local prosecutors, and for 
other purposes.


                              S. RES. 377

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 377, a 
resolution recognizing the importance of paying tribute to those 
individuals who have faithfully served and retired from the Armed 
Forces of the United States, designating April 18, 2018, as ``Military 
Retiree Appreciation Day'', and encouraging the people of the United 
States to honor the past and continued service of military retirees to 
their local communities and the United States.

                          ____________________



