

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1450]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        TRIBUTE TO EMORY SCHWALL

 Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, it is an honor and a privilege 
today to pay tribute to a great Georgian who has dedicated a lifetime 
of service to our State ahead of his 90th birthday on April 11, 2018.
  Mr. Emory Schwall is an outstanding Georgia attorney who has 
practiced law in our State for 68 years. In 1950, at the age of 21, he 
was admitted to the Georgia Bar after attending the Emory School of Law 
and graduating from the Woodrow Wilson Law School in Atlanta.
  Emory Schwall has served as special assistant attorney general for 
the State of Georgia representing the insurance commissioner. He is a 
certified estate planner and mediator, a member of Atlanta Estate 
Planning Council, the Atlanta Bar Association, the Georgia Bar 
Association, and the American Bar Association. He also is a member of 
the Emory Law School Council.
  As impressive as Emory Schwall's professional legal career has been, 
his impact on one of Georgia's finest not-for-profit hospitals is 
probably one of the areas of work of which he is most proud. The 
Shepherd Center in Atlanta specializes in medical treatment, research, 
and rehabilitation for people with spinal cord injury, brain injury, 
multiple sclerosis, spine and chronic pain, and other neuromuscular 
conditions. Founded in 1975, the Shepherd Center is ranked by U.S. News 
& World Report as among the top 10 rehabilitation hospitals in the 
Nation, and it has grown from a six-bed rehabilitation unit to a world-
renowned, 152-bed hospital that treats more than 8,500 patients each 
year.
  Emory Schwall has been active with the Shepherd Center since its 
inception, helping it obtain grants and bequests, and he has led 
capital campaigns and other initiatives that have helped its growth. He 
served on the original board of directors for the Shepherd Center 
Foundation. He has also served as vice president and as a director of 
Shepherd Center, Inc., from 1987 until 2017.
  Emory Schwall has also served his church Trinity Presbyterian Church 
since 1956, not only as a parishioner, but also as a deacon, an elder, 
and as chair of its finance committee.
  An appreciation for the preservation of history led him, as president 
of the Atlanta Medical Heritage, to donate the Academy of Medicine 
building, a designated historical landmark in Atlanta, to the Georgia 
Tech Foundation to ensure funds for the restoration and preservation of 
the building.
  Further, Atlanta's Piedmont Hospital has benefitted from Emory 
Schwall's generosity and service, including serving as an active member 
of the Friends of Piedmont Hospital charitable arm.
  Emory Schwall also is active with national charitable and civic 
organizations such as the American Heart Association and the Arthritis 
Foundation.
  His dedication to service earned him the ``Greater Good Award'' from 
the Georgia Planned Giving Council in 2009. This annual award is 
presented to an individual whose career is currently focused on 
advising individuals, attorneys, financial planners, insurance 
counselors, trust officers, accountants, and other financial advisers 
for obtaining charitable contributions, and a ``Greater Good Award'' 
recipient must have served to increase the quantity and quality of 
planned gifts to charities in Georgia.
  Emory Schwall is truly a great Georgian, and I am fortunate to call 
him my friend. He, along with his wife, the late Peggy McCready 
Schwall, shared a love of service to others. Their three sons and four 
grandsons are proud to have such wonderful examples to follow, and as 
we celebrate his 90th birthday, I hope Emory enjoys many more years in 
our State and with his family.

                          ____________________



