

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2021-S2028]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Claria 
Horn Boom, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the 
Eastern and Western Districts of Kentucky.


                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader is recognized.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, this week, as I stated yesterday, the 
Senate will focus on personnel business.
  Six well-qualified nominees are currently before the Senate. They are 
awaiting the full consideration they clearly deserve. Their nominations 
have been vetted. Their expertise is well known. Their positions sit 
empty, waiting to be filled. The American people are waiting for their 
President to have his full team and for their Federal Government to be 
appropriately staffed.
  If last evening's vote to advance Claria Horn Boom's district court 
nomination were any indication, we would be in for a productive week. 
Ninety-six of our colleagues voted in support--96. With such broad 
bipartisan support, you might think that filing cloture should not have 
been necessary in the first place.
  With nominees as uncontroversial as these, you might think the Senate 
would roll quickly through them and move on to other business, but 
unfortunately, for more than a year now, our Democratic friends have 
used the partisan playbook to delay and obstruct even the least 
controversial nominees. So unless we can reach the kind of bipartisan 
agreement that was once the norm around here and process 
noncontroversial nominees more promptly, we are left with no choice but 
to proceed the hard way, and that is just what we have done.
  Facing historic obstruction, Republicans have confirmed ambitious 
reformists to crucial posts where fresh ideas were long overdue, and we 
have confirmed top-notch legal minds to the Federal bench, including a 
record number of circuit court judges for a President's first year and 
the generational choice of Justice Neil Gorsuch, who was confirmed to 
the Supreme Court 1 year ago today.
  I have already stated that the Senate will remain in session as long 
as it takes to clear this slate of nominees. Following the confirmation 
of Ms. Boom, we will move to consideration of John Ring to serve on the 
National Labor Relations Board. After Mr. Ring comes nominees to the 
Department of Labor, the EPA, and two more nominees to fill district 
court vacancies--all vetted, all qualified, all sitting right here in 
the Senate. In at least one case, several of my Democratic friends have 
already proactively announced support for the nominee. So let's get 
back on track together. Let's consider and confirm these nominees 
without delay.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. President, on a further matter, something exciting has started to 
happen all across our country. In America's small towns and suburbs, 
Main Street businesses are dusting off ``Help Wanted'' signs. In our 
small cities, American manufacturers are expanding facilities and 
creating new products. In rural America, family farmers are investing 
in new equipment and looking forward to increased prosperity.
  For years, all of these parts of our great Nation were more or less 
forgotten. Millions and millions of Americans were left behind. Whether 
by accident or by design, the Obama administration's economic policies 
brought some prosperity to America's biggest and richest urban areas, 
but our small towns, our suburbs, our smaller cities, and our rural 
areas and farming communities year after year saw next to no progress. 
This is the disparity that President Trump and this Republican Congress 
were elected to change.

[[Page S2022]]

  Our Democratic friends say they are proud of a record in which urban 
centers like New York and San Francisco thrived, but most other areas 
slipped behind. I wouldn't be proud of that record. Republicans 
wouldn't settle for that kind of outcome. That is why, as soon as this 
President and this Congress took office, we began implementing an 
inclusive, pro-growth agenda to reignite prosperity in every corner of 
our Nation. We cut taxes for middle-class families and small 
businesses. We repealed one burdensome job-killing regulation after 
another. We are grabbing every tool we can find to make life easier for 
middle-class families who were neglected by the previous 
administration's policies.
  One prime example is our colleague Senator Scott's provision in last 
year's historic tax reform. His legislation lets economically depressed 
communities across the country be designated as ``opportunity zones,'' 
earning special tax treatment to make investment and job creation more 
attractive. In effect, this piece of tax reform will help struggling 
American communities set up big neon signs saying ``We are open for 
business.''
  Just yesterday, in my State of Kentucky, Governor Bevin announced the 
certification of 144 opportunity zones. My friends and colleagues on 
the State and local level are excited and optimistic again. This 
creative policy, along with the rest of tax reform, has the Kentuckians 
I serve looking forward to a brighter future. More States are following 
suit.
  From the West End in Louisville and distressed areas in Eastern 
Kentucky to Stockton, CA, and everywhere in between, this Congress will 
have helped deliver new opportunities and new hope to many of the most 
vulnerable communities all across our country. All this progress--all 
because Republicans overcame lockstep partisan opposition and passed 
this historic tax reform law.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The assistant Democratic leader is recognized.


                        Remembering Daniel Akaka

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last Friday, America lost a good and 
gracious person, a statesman, and many of us in the Senate lost a 
personal friend.
  Senator Daniel Akaka was as kind and decent a man as you would ever 
meet in life. For 3\1/2\ decades, Danny Akaka served the people of 
Hawaii in the U.S. Congress with dignity, humility, and deep caring.
  The Hawaiian concept of ``aloha'' isn't a quality that many think of 
when they think of politicians. ``Aloha'' means mutual regard and 
affection. It means extending warmth and caring with no obligation in 
return, no strings attached. Danny Inouye, that giant of Hawaii and its 
history, once called Danny Akaka ``a true ambassador of aloha.''
  When Danny Akaka announced in 2011 that he would not run for 
reelection to the Senate, then-Hawaii Governor Neil Abercrombie said:

       The words aloha and Akaka are interchangeable. Daniel Akaka 
     is Hawaii.

  Now, at age 93, Senator Akaka is gone. I first met him in 1983. I was 
a newly elected Member of the U.S. House of Representatives. Then we 
sat together on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, 
the two of us next to one another down at the far end of the table. 
Danny had 6 years' seniority on me. We served together, worked 
together, laughed together, traveled together, and came to be friends.
  Here was a man, a great politician, who didn't have a personal ego. 
Politics was always about someone else, about helping other people. In 
fact, he went out of his way to avoid the spotlight. But don't think 
for a minute that he was weak. I have memories seared in my mind--
certainly October 11, 2002, when 22 Members of the Democratic caucus in 
the Senate voted against the resolution authorizing President Bush to 
invade Iraq--the Iraq war resolution Danny Akaka opposed. I can recall 
that it was nearly 1 in the morning when that rollcall ended and he 
left the floor after that historic vote. Soft-spoken, yes. Capable of 
making hard, meaningful, courageous decisions, certainly. That was a 
lonely road. I believe history has judged it to be the right vote.
  Danny Akaka's vote, like so many, was deeply influenced by his own 
experience in the U.S. military. At 17 years of age, he witnessed the 
Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Two years later, after serving as a 
welder and diesel mechanic with the Army Corps of Engineers, he entered 
Active Duty with the Army and served in several areas across the 
Pacific.
  After the war, he used his GI benefits to go to college, and only 
later did he realize he was still carrying a wound from that war--post-
traumatic stress disorder. He said that earning a bachelor's and 
master's degree in education and working as a public school teacher and 
principal--his first profession--helped him to cope with PTSD.
  In politics, his second career, he used his influence to help other 
members of the military, veterans and their families.
  In 2008, as chairman of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, 
Senator Danny Akaka cosponsored the post-9/11 GI bill of rights. That 
new GI bill of rights included a provision that I asked Danny to 
include to improve care for veterans wounded by another of the often-
invisible wounds of war--traumatic brain injury. Senator Akaka's 
leadership helped to pass that important new law.
  Two years later, then chairman of the Veterans' Committee, I appealed 
to Danny Akaka again for another provision. It was an idea actually 
authored originally by Senator Hillary Clinton of New York. It was 
called the Caregivers Program. The idea was to allow family members of 
disabled veterans to care for them at home, to provide necessary 
medical care and support in a home setting that they all wanted to be 
in. It was the right thing for our veterans, the right thing for our 
budget, and the right thing for America. Danny Akaka embraced it and 
became a leader on the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services 
Act of 2010, providing those family members with training and modest 
stipends. The stipends amount to only a fraction of what would have 
been spent on these veterans had they been in a different setting 
sponsored by the government.
  Well, Danny Akaka is gone, but his legacy of service lives on in 
millions of veterans and military families whose lives are better 
because of his quiet but fierce commitment.
  In 1996, Senator Akaka spearheaded an effort to require reevaluation 
of the service records of Asian Americans who had fought in the 442nd 
Regimental Combat Team and the 100th Division during the war.
  As a result of Danny Akaka's perseverance, almost two dozen Medals of 
Honor were bestowed posthumously on Asian-American veterans, many of 
them Japanese Americans. The most prominent recipient was his 
colleague, Senator Danny Inouye, who had lost an arm during World War 
II fighting for the United States in Italy. It was a long overdue 
justice for heroes whose courage had been largely ignored for decades 
because of racism, and Danny Akaka helped to make it happen.
  In 1993, Danny Akaka helped to bend the arc of the moral universe 
another time when he and Senator Inouye successfully pushed through a 
resolution in which the Federal Government apologized for its role in 
overthrowing the Hawaiian monarchy a century earlier.
  As a child, Danny Akaka listened to his parents speak their Native 
Hawaiian language in whispers. They didn't want Danny and his seven 
brothers and sisters to hear them because of the Territorial law 
allowing children to be punished if they spoke their Native Hawaiian 
language in school. That little boy, little Danny Akaka, grew up to be 
the first Native Hawaiian ever elected to the U.S. Senate. Danny Akaka 
was a champion of Native Hawaiians and Native Americans, a champion of 
good government and the men and women who do that work in government.
  He was a deeply spiritual and religious man, who once considered 
following his brother into the ministry but instead decided to help 
others in his own way as a teacher and a public servant. His was a life 
well lived.
  Last night, I had a telephone conversation with Danny's wife, Millie 
Akaka--what a team, 69 years of marriage. They were just a few weeks 
away from celebrating their 70th anniversary. They were inseparable. He 
was the Senator, but she was the driving force in his public career. 
She managed every one of his campaigns. She knew everyone in every 
direction. She never forgot a name, and she was always

[[Page S2023]]

there to finish his sentences. We talked for a long time last night 
about the times when we were able to get together--my wife Loretta, 
Millie, and Danny--and the good times we had and the great people we 
met in the process. I also talked about the time when Danny came before 
the Senate Democratic caucus luncheon. We used to have a great 
tradition, where every few weeks Senators would get up and just tell a 
little bit about their personal lives--things that don't make the 
headlines.
  I still remember Danny Akaka's presentation. He talked about growing 
up in a very modest family but having a mother with a very caring 
heart. His mother just couldn't stand to see someone who was struggling 
to find a home or a meal. She was always inviting someone in. Even 
though they didn't have a lot themselves, they were always sharing with 
people. She would say: Bring them over to dinner, Danny. Let's meet 
them.
  Then, after they met them, they would offer them a room. Danny told a 
story of people who came and lived in his home with him--perfect 
strangers who became part of their family and lived with them for 
months and even years. Some of those people whom they befriended went 
on to greatness. One was a medical doctor who became famous and never 
forgot the kindnesses extended by the Akaka family.
  His mother's lesson was learned by Danny Akaka. It was shared with us 
in the Senate. It was an indication of truly a caring heart and a 
person who was really prepared to serve every day of his life.
  I join my colleagues in expressing our condolences to Danny's wife 
Millie, to their five children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. 
May your love and memories be a comfort in this time of loss.
  To my friend, Senator Danny Akaka: Aloha and mahalo. Farewell and 
thank you.


                                  DACA

  Mr. President, I have come to this floor over 110 different times to 
introduce to the Senate and to the people who follow our proceedings 
remarkable people who live in the shadows of America. These are 
Dreamers--children who were brought to this country by their parents, 
some at the age of 2 or 3. They were brought into this country perhaps 
on a visitor's visa and stayed. They grew up in America. Then, when 
they were 10 or 12, in some cases, their mother and father sat down and 
said: We need to tell you the truth about who you are and where you 
are.
  These children are undocumented. Their parents didn't file the 
necessary legal papers. They live lives without a country. They have 
grown up here. They always believed they were Americans. They went to 
our schools and stood every day in class and pledged allegiance to that 
flag. They really believed they were part of America, but legally, no, 
they were Dreamers.
  I have tried for 17 years now to pass legislation to give them a 
chance to earn their way to legal status and citizenship. I have had 
some luck from time to time, but we have never quite been able to find 
the necessary votes in both the House and the Senate in the same year.
  A number of years ago, I appealed to my former Senate colleague, 
Barack Obama, and asked President Obama to do what he could to help 
these Dreamers. He created a program called DACA by Executive order. 
Under DACA, these young people could come forward, submit themselves to 
a criminal background check, pay a filing fee, and be protected from 
deportation for 2 years at a time. They had to renew this. So if there 
was any problem, they could lose their protection. That DACA Program 
finally brought 800,000 Americans--people who live in America--out of 
the shadows under the protection of DACA.
  Initially, we thought new President Trump was going to give these 
young DACA recipients a break. He said a lot of kind things about them, 
even though his rhetoric about immigration has been very harsh. He said 
good things about them because he realized, as all of us do, that many 
of them are victims of unfairness and injustice and they should be 
given a chance to prove themselves and be part of America's future.
  But then, on September 5 of last year, President Trump reversed 
himself. He announced that he was eliminating DACA, eliminating the 
protection these young people have. He challenged Congress and said: 
Come up with a law that protects DACA and Dreamers. I accepted the 
challenge and so did Lindsey Graham, the Republican Senator of South 
Carolina. We put together a team of six Senators--three Democrats and 
three Republicans--and worked for months to come up with an alternative 
that would protect the Dreamers, protect those who are under the DACA 
Program.
  I think it was a good proposal. I think it was balanced. Parts of it 
I didn't like, and parts of it I did. That is the nature of a political 
compromise. It was bipartisan. We took it to President Trump, but he 
rejected it. He just rejected it.
  There we were, emptyhanded, coming to the floor of the Senate a few 
weeks ago for four different votes to try to solve the DACA crisis. 
None of our proposals passed. The one with the most votes was the one 
Senator Graham and I worked on and brought to the floor with Senator 
King and Senator Rounds. It even included the President's wall. Some of 
us think this is a crazy idea, a waste of taxpayers' dollars, but we 
were prepared to say to the President: If you would give 1.8 million of 
these Dreamers a path to citizenship, we will at least start building 
your wall--one that was supposed to be paid for by Mexico. President 
Trump rejected it. He rejected it. March 5 came and went. The deadline 
for DACA ended, and protection under DACA started disappearing.
  There were court suits that were brought. Two Federal courts stepped 
in and issued injunctions. They said to the President: Stop the threat 
of deportation against these DACA-protected young people. Two of those 
injunctions now stand, and under those our Federal Government--the 
Department of Homeland Security--is allowing those who were once 
protected by DACA to renew their status. Of course, those who were 
newly eligible--for instance, reaching the age of 15, which is the age 
of eligibility--can't sign up. But if you were in the 800,000 
protected, you can renew your DACA protection by these court orders.
  So how long are these young people going to be protected? We don't 
know. That court protection could end next week, next month, or 6 
months from now. We just don't know. So they live in absolute 
uncertainty with the danger that at any minute DACA protection ends and 
they can be deported.
  When I have come to the floor to tell their stories, people 
understand that these young people are extraordinary. Think about 
growing up as a teenager and all the uncertainty and challenges and 
things that come to your life. Imagine doing that with the knowledge 
that at any minute you could be deported or some misstep by you might 
deport your entire family. That is what these young people have grown 
up with. Yet they are determined. They are resilient. Some of them are 
nothing short of amazing on what they have done with their lives.
  I have come to the floor to tell their stories so you could attach a 
face to them, to the issue. DACA isn't just another government program. 
It turns out to be something that is significant in their lives.
  Today I wish to tell another one of those stories about another one 
of these Dreamers. This lovely young lady here is Gloria Rinconi. 
Gloria Rinconi is the 113th Dreamer whom I have had the honor to 
introduce to the Senate and to those who follow our proceedings.
  Gloria was brought to the United States at the age of 1 from Mexico. 
She grew up in North Carolina and in Texas. Her family had so little 
money that at one point her parents slept on the floor of a trailer. 
Gloria slept on a makeshift bed made out of a piece of cardboard and a 
blanket.
  Gloria's parents told her she was undocumented, but ``you are loved 
by many regardless of what you might hear on TV.''
  Her family was poor, but Gloria was a hard worker and an 
extraordinarily good student. In high school, she took advanced 
placement courses and was a member of the National Technical Honor 
Society. She received the Tyler Independent School District Student 
Award. She was active in extracurricular activities, worked on the

[[Page S2024]]

school yearbook, was a member of the French club, pom squad, and drill 
prep. She competed in pageants, winning the National American Miss 
State Pageant and the National American Miss National Pageant.
  Gloria graduated from high school with a medical assistant program 
certification. She is attending Richland College and majoring in 
psychology. She also works as a medical assistant for a surgeon. Her 
dream is to become a clinical psychologist and work with low-income 
families facing mental health issues.
  This lovely and amazing young lady sent me a letter. Here is what she 
said:

       DACA is my entire life. It's the only thing I have that 
     allows me to work, give back to my community and continue 
     with my future plans. Without it, my life as I know it will 
     be gone.

  This is what the DACA debate and the Dream Act debate is all about. 
It is all about the aspirations and hopes of amazing, talented, and 
dedicated young people who just want to be part of America's future.
  Would we be better if we ended up deporting this young lady, sending 
her back to Mexico--a place she has probably never even visited in her 
entire life since she came here at the age of 1? I don't think so. I 
think everyone understands that a young person like this deserves a 
chance.
  We now face the possibility that DACA protection through court order 
may protect those who are already protected under DACA from deportation 
but may not protect them for some period of time and allow them to 
work. That is the second part of DACA--that you can legally work in the 
United States.
  A lot of them have graduated from college and do work today. I have 
met doctors, lawyers, engineers, and teachers. There are some 20,000 
teachers across America who are protected by DACA and allowed to work, 
but President Trump has said recently that it is over and, as far as he 
is concerned, they should be deported. I hope his position does not 
prevail. I hope, for Gloria's sake and for the thousands just like her, 
that we will do the right thing, the just and fair thing, and that we 
will do something immediately to provide DACA protection, protection 
for Dreamers, and a path for citizenship.
  How did we get into this crisis? President Trump's decision on 
September 5, 2017, to end DACA created the crisis we face. We need to 
work toward a solution.
  The President has rejected six bipartisan proposals. I don't know 
what it will take to bring him around. I am skeptical now of any 
statement that he makes publicly that he wants to solve this problem. I 
also know that we face, as Gloria faces every day, the uncertainty for 
these young people.

  I urge my colleagues on both sides, don't quit on this issue; don't 
quit on these young people. Every time I go home--every time I go home 
and meet with these Dreamers--it is an emotional meeting. Few of them 
can tell me their life stories without breaking down in tears. Then, 
when they mention their parents--who have been vilified by some--these 
young DACA recipients break down in tears again. They say: Senator, 
wouldn't you have done everything in your power to help your children, 
even if it meant breaking a law?
  Yes, I am sure I would have.
  Should the parents pay a price? Well, under comprehensive immigration 
reform, we had a fine they had to pay, and we delayed any eligibility 
they had to become citizens, but we didn't deport them and break up 
their families. If they had no criminal record and no difficulties or 
problems, we gave them a chance--not amnesty, a price had to be paid 
but a chance to become part of the future of America as well.
  This issue is not over because we have failed in the Senate. The 
issue is still there. The question is whether Senators from both 
political parties can summon the courage to solve this problem.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Democratic leader is recognized.


                         Seizure of Information

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, yesterday FBI agents, at the direction of 
the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, seized 
information from President Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen. It 
was reported that the referral to the U.S. attorney's office originated 
with Special Counsel Mueller, but the raid itself was under the 
direction of the U.S. attorney's office and New York FBI agents.
  We don't know the reason for Special Counsel Mueller's referral. We 
do know that any referral must have been signed off by Deputy Attorney 
General Rod Rosenstein. Furthermore, the U.S. attorney's office in New 
York would have to be convinced that whatever information Mr. Mueller 
passed along was worth pursuing, and the U.S. attorney would have to 
convince an independent magistrate or judge--nonpartisan--that there 
was probable cause to believe that seizing information from Mr. Cohen 
would yield evidence of a crime. That is a serious and high standard 
that had to be met.
  I go through these details because it is important to understand that 
yesterday's events could only have been the result of a rigorous legal 
process, with checks every step of the way and with a very high burden 
of proof. Yet, last night, President Trump said the FBI raid was a 
``disgrace,'' part of a ``witch hunt,'' an ``attack on our country,'' 
and mentioned that many people have encouraged him to fire Mr. Mueller. 
``We'll see what happens,'' he concluded.
  Let's break this down. The President suggests that the latest events 
are part of the partisan conspiracy against him. I remind the President 
that the source of the referral, Special Counsel Mueller, is a lifelong 
Republican. The Deputy Attorney General who signed off on the referral, 
Rod Rosenstein, is a Republican, appointed by President Trump. The 
Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, is a Republican, appointed by 
President Trump. The U.S. attorney for the Southern District in New 
York, who sought a search warrant based on that information, is a 
Republican, appointed by President Trump. The agents in New York who 
carried out the seizure are under the direction of Christopher Wray, a 
Republican, appointed by President Trump.
  If President Trump believes this to be a partisan conspiracy, he once 
again ignores the fact that every major player is a Republican, and all 
but the judges are appointed by President Trump himself. The partisan 
affiliation of those involved really doesn't matter. These are all law 
enforcement officers simply doing their job--a job enshrined by the 
Constitution of the United States.
  The President also tweeted this morning that ``attorney-client 
privilege is dead.''
  Mr. President, attorney-client privilege is alive and well, but there 
is an exception when the attorney might be involved in a crime or 
fraud. It is well known as the crime-fraud exception. That exception is 
obviously in play today. Law enforcement officers believe there is a 
good chance that the attorney for the President committed a crime or 
was involved in fraud or they couldn't have gotten the OK from the 
magistrate to make these seizures.
  President Trump also said, the implication of his personal attorney 
for potentially serious Federal crimes constitutes an ``attack on our 
country.'' That is what he said, an ``attack on our country.''
  With due respect, President Trump, America has been around for over 
two and a half centuries. An investigation of your personal attorney is 
not an attack on our country. The Japanese bombing Pearl Harbor was an 
attack on our country; 9/11 was an attack on our country. When Russia 
interfered with our elections, that was an attack on our country. 
Investigating your personal lawyer, with a high standard to be met, is 
certainly not an attack on our country. It is what America has always 
been about and still is--the rule of law.
  President Trump said the raid was a ``disgrace.'' I say to the 
President: Mr. President, you have it wrong. Interfering with the 
investigation would be a disgrace. Calling it an attack on our

[[Page S2025]]

country is a disgrace. What matters is the rule of law. In this 
country, no man is above the law, not even the President. Mr. 
President, your comments were the disgrace.
  If the President is thinking of using this raid to fire Special 
Counsel Mueller or otherwise interfere with the chain of command in the 
Russia probe, we have one simple message for him: Don't even think 
about it.
  Special Counsel Mueller has uncovered a deep and detailed pattern of 
Russian interference in our elections. It has led to several 
indictments and guilty pleas. It has also led the Trump administration 
itself to level sanctions against Russian individuals for meddling in 
our elections. That is proof positive that Mueller's investigation is 
not a so-called witch hunt.
  If the President's own administration has leveled sanctions against 
Russian individuals for meddling in our elections, how can the 
President say it is a witch hunt? It is being pursued by his own 
administration, independent of the Mueller investigation. The 
investigation by Special Counsel Mueller is critical to the health of 
our democracy and the security of future elections. It must--it must--
be allowed to continue.
  The President seems to have a view that the Department of Justice's 
sole purpose is to protect the President and go after his enemies. I 
emphatically state to the President, that is not the role of the 
Department of Justice. Their role is to enforce the law and go after 
anyone who breaks it. That is their role, and it is not subject to the 
President's political interests in any way.
  President Trump should not have any contact--any contact--with the 
new U.S. attorney in the Southern District, with his office, or the 
Department of Justice officials overseeing an investigation of Mr. 
Cohen. Any attempted contact by the President or the White House should 
be reported to the Department of Justice immediately.
  One final point. When President Trump implies that the Mueller 
investigation is an assault on our country and our values, he is not 
only dead wrong, he is wrong in a very dangerous way. Special Counsel 
Mueller, the FBI, Federal prosecutors, and U.S. attorneys are following 
the due process of our legal system. Calling that an attack on our 
country undermines the rule of law--a bedrock principle of this great 
Nation for centuries, the reason, above all, the rest of the world 
looks up to these great United States of America.
  The only person engaging in an attack on American values, what we all 
stand for--the rule of law--is, unfortunately, President Trump. It 
needs to stop. It is gnawing at the core of America.
  It is difficult to know when you are living through a historic time 
in this country. Our Nation has prevailed through many dark times. We 
all hope that, in the sweep of history, our current moment is not one 
of peril, but we have witnessed a sustained attack by the President of 
the United States on the rule of law in this country, and we may be 
getting to that point.
  We have seen that any institution with the power to check the 
President's power--the Federal Judiciary, the Department of Justice, 
the FBI, the Congress, the press--suffers his disdain and derision. If 
we fail to defend these institutions, which represent the rule of law, 
the Constitution, and the balance of power in our country the Founding 
Fathers so brilliantly enshrined, then we are letting our grand 
democracy diminish.
  I beseech my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stand up and 
say what the President is doing is wrong. Make it clear that firing 
Mueller or interfering in his investigation crosses a redline and is a 
threat to our constitutional order. Let us also be clear that the 
President does not have the authority to order the special counsel's 
firing without cause.
  Finally, let us take steps to protect the special counsel from 
political interference. We have several bipartisan bills designed to do 
just that. Majority Leader McConnell should bring them to the floor and 
let us debate them very soon.
  For months, Republicans have said that legislation to protect the 
special counsel is not needed because they have been assured by 
nameless people that the President will not fire the special counsel. 
That assurance has been shaken by the President's comments last night. 
By his own words, it is clear the President may--may--be considering 
firing the special counsel. This Congress must respond forcefully, and 
on a bipartisan basis, by reaffirming our belief that the President 
cannot fire the special counsel without cause and by passing 
legislation to ensure that any attempts to remove Robert Mueller will 
be unsuccessful.
  We should not abide the President's attempted assault on the rule of 
law in America. The eyes of history are upon us.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority whip.


                             Online Privacy

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, today we have a joint Commerce and 
Judiciary Committee hearing on online privacy and the abuse of data 
obtained by social media platforms. Ordinarily, I wouldn't come to the 
Senate floor to talk about an individual legislative hearing, but this 
is no run-of-the-mill event. The CEO of Facebook will be testifying, 
and I believe his company and other parties have some important 
explaining to do.
  One question is what Facebook's priorities are and whether they are 
what they should be. Facebook, of course, is a publicly traded company, 
and it has a fiduciary duty to its shareholders that it shares in 
common with every other shareholder-owned enterprise. Its business 
model is unique. It collects information on billions of people and uses 
that data to help drive its profits. One wonders whether, and at what 
point, that profit motive has come to be at odds with protecting the 
privacy of individual users. To me, that is one of the fundamental 
questions Mr. Zuckerberg is going to have to answer today.
  From testimony released yesterday, we know Facebook will admit it 
made mistakes; that it didn't take a broad enough view of its 
responsibility and prevent its tools from being used in ways that it 
says it did not intend. That act of contrition is one we all welcome, 
of course, but it will not matter much without additional action, some 
of which might be even foundational to Facebook's entire business 
model.
  Those changes, we are told, can take some time. Meanwhile, Americans 
will continue to wonder about their privacy, about who is acquiring 
data about their political opinions, their personal taste, and their 
preferences without their informed consent.
  How much have any of us read of the terms of service for the social 
media platforms that we use? They are written by lawyers for legal 
purposes, which is basically to prevent any lawsuits from being 
successfully filed against the company. Yet, in terms of informed 
consent, which is what we ought to be focused on here, how much do 
consumers really understand about how the data is used that they turn 
over to these social media platforms?
  Mr. Zuckerberg has an opportunity today to explain whether consumers 
are really being protected in any meaningful way. It is good that 
Facebook has, in recent months, shut down accounts that have had links 
to the Russian Government--accounts that were used to meddle in our 
last election. That is surely one actor we know who has used Facebook 
in improper ways, but it never should have reached that point. The 
company should have spotted this attempt of foreign influence much 
earlier and contained its spread.
  In our moving forward, now is the time to demand a comprehensive 
accounting of internal monitoring efforts as well as the full extent of 
the infiltration and manipulation of that and other social media 
platforms in the past, not just by Russia but by other foreign actors, 
including rogue actors.
  In addition to its response to the Russia allegations, Facebook, we 
have been told, has limited which online apps can literally vacuum up 
information from users' profiles. Once again, this announcement only 
tells us so much. We need to understand which apps are still being 
allowed to mine that data and under what conditions.
  We have all heard about one egregious case of this happening--a 
political consulting firm, using Facebook, that improperly accessed the 
private data of some 87 million users. This data was used to assemble a 
psychological

[[Page S2026]]

profile to assess how people might respond to political advertising and 
how they might vote in an election. When people access Facebook to 
trade pictures with families and friends or to communicate with family 
and talk about their most recent vacations, I doubt they realize that 
data could be acquired by a third party, like Cambridge Analytica, and 
that it can not only literally use that information but all of the 
personal data of their friends and relatives in order to target 
political messaging for its use in an election.
  Facebook has historically been a platform for all ideas, as they say, 
but now the company realizes that because of its business model, it has 
more responsibilities. It is not just a neutral platform. It must 
defend against false information, foreign government subterfuge, and 
other destructive conduct, such as child pornography and human 
trafficking. We know, as a result of the most recent legislation we 
passed relative to human trafficking, that we have actually expanded 
the responsibilities of social media platforms in the human trafficking 
arena because of the threat it poses to so many innocent people.
  The basic questions are whether Facebook is responsible for 
misinformation in its use of its platform, for outright falsehoods, or 
attempts by foreign governments to meddle in our elections by sowing 
discord and disinformation. There are also some important questions 
about whether Facebook is inconsistently using the data that it 
collects in a way that obviously benefits itself financially but is not 
sharing it on an equal basis with law enforcement or intelligence when 
the intelligence community needs that information to solve crimes or to 
keep the country safe.
  A lot of ideas have been tossed around about how to respond to these 
difficult questions. Perhaps we should treat social media platforms as 
information fiduciaries and impose legal obligations on them, as we do 
with lawyers and doctors, who are privy to some of our most personal, 
private information.
  To me, one of the most important questions is who owns that data that 
we share on social media platforms and whether the data that is shared 
is shared with one's fully informed consent so that consumers are 
protected against consequences they had no way of anticipating and that 
are damaging to their personal privacy.
  Other ideas involve increased transparency, partnering with the 
Federal Trade Commission, or passing new data privacy laws. They 
involve giving consumers more control and requiring companies to 
disclose in plain English and in nontechnical ways what information 
they collect before users are presumed to have given their consent. I 
look forward to exploring these and other related ideas at the hearing 
later today.
  Facebook and other social media platforms need to come clean with the 
American people. An apology, while necessary and welcome, is not 
enough. These companies must back up their words with actions that 
better safeguard the American consumer and their right to privacy. 
Technology can be a good thing, but it can also be abused in ways that 
we need to reckon with. This afternoon's hearing will be the beginning 
of those efforts in a very substantial and comprehensive way.
  Mr. President, on a separate matter, we have a lot on our plate here 
in the Senate apart from conducting the hearing that I just mentioned. 
One of our items on our ``to do'' list is to continue to confirm the 
President's nominees, who have faced an unprecedented level of 
obstruction from the minority. The majority leader, Senator McConnell, 
has been forced to file cloture--a formal piece of paper--on six 
important nominees, many of whom will be confirmed with strong 
bipartisan support, but because our colleagues on the other side refuse 
to consent to the expedited consideration of these noncontroversial 
nominees, we will have to literally burn up a week of the Senate's time 
during which we could be doing other important work.


                       Nomination of Gina Haspell

  Mr. President, in addition to the six nominees whom we will confirm 
this week, I want to talk about two in particular, two outstanding 
individuals who have been nominated by the President to some of the 
most important positions in the Federal Government. These posts are the 
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Secretary of State.
  Gina Haspel has been nominated for the first position. She joined the 
CIA in 1985, which was during the final years of the Cold War. She is a 
career intelligence officer and has served for more than 30 years 
overseas, around the world, and in Washington. She has held various 
leadership roles at the Central Intelligence Agency, including that of 
Deputy Director of the National Clandestine Service. You can imagine 
this is some of the most sensitive and important work that is being 
done in the intelligence community, and she has been right in the 
middle of it. She has also worked in the Counterterrorism Center, where 
her first day of work was on September 11, 2001--that fateful day when 
the Twin Towers fell and the Pentagon was attacked.
  Throughout her career, Ms. Haspel has held some of the most demanding 
and least publicly acknowledged assignments in the far-off reaches of 
the globe--in places like Africa and the Middle East. She did not 
always seek out these difficult roles; she took them because she saw 
them as her duty. That is the challenge, honestly, when it comes to 
somebody who has had an incredible career like Gina Haspel's, because 
so much of what she has done, she has done in a classified setting. We 
cannot really talk about the details without jeopardizing the sources 
and methods of our intelligence-gathering or without revealing 
information which could undermine our national security.
  There have already been some attacks on Ms. Haspel, which, I think, 
are, honestly, a caricature of her 30-plus years of service to the 
country. We ought to applaud, not denigrate, people who are willing to 
sacrifice their safety, their comfort, and their security to make us 
safer and more secure as the American people. Unfortunately, that 
doesn't always happen.
  She has received numerous awards which lend credence to her 
reputation and illustrate that other accomplished professionals hold 
her in high regard. These awards include the Presidential Rank Award, 
which is the most prestigious award in the Federal civil service. She 
has also received the Intelligence Medal of Merit, among others.
  Her integrity and professionalism are beyond question. A bipartisan 
group of intelligence officials who has served in previous 
administrations has testified to her qualifications and her fitness for 
this particular position as the Director of the CIA. For example, 
former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, who served for 
50 years in the intelligence community under Republican Presidents and 
Democratic Presidents, said he thinks the world of Ms. Haspel. She is 
capable, smart, experienced, and well respected by Agency rank-and-file 
and is a great person, he said.
  Leon Panetta, who served as the Chief of Staff to Bill Clinton when 
he was the President and who later served as the CIA Director and the 
Secretary of Defense under President Obama, said that he is glad we 
will have the first woman as the head of the CIA and that Gina knows 
the CIA inside and out.
  Former CIA Director John Brennan, who also worked under President 
Obama, has cited her ability to ``provide unvarnished, apolitical, 
objective intelligence to [President] Trump and to others.''
  Just yesterday, 53 former senior U.S. officials sent the Senate 
Select Committee on Intelligence a letter in which they expressed their 
wholehearted support for Ms. Haspel. This group includes former 
Secretaries of State Henry Kissinger and George Shultz and former 
Attorney General Michael Mukasey, among others.
  As I said, we know that some partisans have already sought to twist 
and distort Ms. Haspel's record and the decisions that were made in 
real time by accomplished professionals at a time when our country was 
under attack.
  In Ms. Haspel's case, there have been questions about interrogation 
tactics that had been used in the early days of the War on Terror 
following 9/11. These questions are really pretty easily answered. The 
program complained of was investigated twice by career lawyers in the 
Justice Department--one under President Bush and another

[[Page S2027]]

under President Obama. Ms. Haspel and others were found to have done 
nothing unlawful. As my colleague, the junior Senator from Arkansas, 
has said, Ms. Haspel did not go rogue or make these policies on the 
fly. She dutifully executed the approved policy as determined by the 
Department of Justice. Moreover, she did so at one of the most 
dangerous moments in our Nation's history.
  I am confident that Ms. Haspel will be confirmed because if she is 
not, it will send a horrible message to other highly qualified people 
who feel the call to serve our Nation, and it will send a horrible 
message to other CIA officers who follow lawful orders and protect our 
country on a daily basis. It will make our intelligence professionals 
more risk averse and consequently endanger our national security and 
American lives.


                       Nomination of Mike Pompeo

  Mr. President, I also commend to the Senate the nomination of Mike 
Pompeo as the next Secretary of State and express my support for his 
nomination.
  After graduating first in his class at West Point and serving in the 
U.S. Army, Mike Pompeo attended Harvard Law School. He had a successful 
career in law and business before transitioning into public service as 
an elected official. He served as a Congressman in the U.S. House of 
Representatives for Kansas's Fourth Congressional District, and he 
served in the U.S. House on the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence. He was, of course, named by President Trump to lead the 
CIA after President Trump was elected.
  Director Pompeo is smart and well respected by all. He has developed 
a keen sense of the delicate nature of global diplomacy and the crucial 
and indispensable role that America plays in world affairs. I know he 
has great personal rapport and the confidence of the President, and I 
think he will make an excellent Secretary of State.
  Earlier this month, a group of influential conservatives sent a 
letter applauding Director Pompeo's nomination. They praised his 
management of the CIA and the trust he has earned of career officials 
there. They noted Director Pompeo's firsthand knowledge of the 
legislative process, something that is always handy for an executive 
branch official. They noted his congressional relationships--as we 
know, relationships are very important here, as well--but also his 
experience serving in the military, which gives him a unique 
perspective on a wide variety of issues.
  I have worked with the Director on a number of occasions, including 
recently, when we worked together on the reauthorization of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act section 702 program, which the 
intelligence community uses to monitor the communications of terrorists 
and other people who are a threat to the national security of the 
United States. Without the Director's stalwart support, we would not 
have been successful at renewing that program for 6 more years this 
last January.
  The Director never waivers from a fight, even under pressure, and he 
understands the important role that our intelligence officials have in 
responding to national security threats. That characteristic of his--
not backing down from a fight--is important for a Secretary of State 
because inevitably they are involved in controversial matters. I 
believe he has the personal tact, skill, and intelligence to be able to 
deal with our allies and to address our adversaries on the world stage 
in a way that would help the United States and help us lead in the 
world.
  Once he is confirmed, Americans would be fortunate to have Mike 
Pompeo's critical eye trained on difficult conflicts like that in 
Syria, upcoming negotiations on denuclearization with North Korea, the 
growing threat posed by China and its dictatorship, and the new and 
evolving forms of Russian aggression, including meddling in our 
elections. Mike Pompeo is not naive about these dangers. He is 
thoughtful, and I expect that, once confirmed, he will be direct, 
respectful, and collaborative in working with the White House and the 
Congress.
  I strongly support the President's nomination of Mike Pompeo for 
Secretary of State, and I urge my colleagues to do likewise.
  I yield the floor
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Young). The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  (The remarks of Mr. Daines pertaining to the introduction of S. 2640 
are printed in today's Record under ``Statements on Introduced Bills 
and Joint Resolutions.'')
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Massachusetts.


             Nominations of John Ring and Patrick Pizzella

  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I am here today to urge my colleagues to 
oppose the confirmation of two Trump nominees--John Ring, who has been 
nominated to the National Labor Relations Board, and Patrick Pizzella, 
who has been nominated Deputy Secretary of Labor. These two nominees 
have been selected to hold critical jobs to protect workers. That is 
what these jobs are about.
  I will be blunt. I start with a pretty high bar here since, despite 
his campaign rhetoric from 2 years ago, the President's track record on 
standing up for workers has been absolutely miserable. From the day he 
nominated Andrew Puzder--an executive who delighted in mocking and 
belittling his own low-wage workers--to run the Department of Labor, 
this administration has delivered one gut punch after another to 
America's working people.
  The National Labor Relations Board is responsible for protecting the 
rights of workers to organize and bargain for better wages and 
benefits, so as we consider President Trump's latest nominee for the 
Board, it makes sense to look at what his nominees so far have already 
done.
  Look at the new Republican majority's very first week back on the job 
back in December. In just 5 days, the Board mowed its way through a 
giant wish list of areas where giant companies were begging to be let 
off the hook for violating workers' rights.
  Allowing employers to shirk their collective bargaining obligations 
by contracting out workers? Check.
  Making it easier for employers to control the outcome of union 
elections. Check.
  Opening the door for workplace rules that chill workers' ability to 
join together on the job. Check.
  Allowing cases to be ``settled'' without input from the workers whose 
rights are affected by the settlement. Check.
  Just as troubling as these anti-worker decisions themselves are the 
egregious conflicts of interest behind them.
  From the moment he was nominated by President Trump, I have 
repeatedly raised concerns about Board Member William Emanuel's history 
of representing big corporations that have abused their workers and 
about his mile-long list of potential conflicts of interest. Sure 
enough, after just a few months on the Board, NLRB's inspector general 
determined that Mr. Emanuel participated in not one but two important 
decisions involving his former law firm, which directly violated his 
ethics pledge. In response, the Board vacated one of its most 
consequential decisions of the last year, and Member Emanuel lost any 
remaining credibility that he could be an impartial Board member. So I 
called on him to resign.
  Now the President wants us to put John Ring on the Board. I have 
asked Mr. Ring to provide a list of clients and cases that might 
require his recusal. To his credit, he has done so. But Mr. Ring's long 
list of clients is a huge red flag. Either he will ignore the ethics 
rules when they are inconvenient--like Mr. Emanuel did--or he will 
likely have to recuse himself from important cases.
  A large number of potential conflicts of interest isn't the only 
thing Mr. Ring has in common with Mr. Emanuel. Like Emanuel, Mr. Ring 
has also spent his career representing large employers against workers, 
and his few public statements on the NLRB express a belief that the 
Board has been too friendly to workers and that corporations have 
gotten the short end of the stick.
  After decades of stagnant wages and skyrocketing corporate profits, 
does

[[Page S2028]]

anyone other than insider lobbyists and lawyers think that Washington 
is working for middle-class families and that big corporations are the 
ones under attack? I don't think so. That is exactly why an NLRB that 
looks out for workers is more important than ever. President Trump's 
NLRB is failing miserably at that mission.
  Working Americans deserve Board members with a demonstrated record of 
fighting for workers, not against them. They deserve Board members who 
aren't ethically and legally constrained from doing the job. Mr. Ring 
does not meet those qualifications.
  Workers need an NLRB that works for them, and they need leaders at 
the Department of Labor who are going to be on their side, not on the 
side of giant employers and extreme, rightwing donors. Patrick Pizzella 
has been nominated to the No. 2 job at the Department of Labor, and 
nothing in Mr. Pizzella's resume tells us that he meets the description 
of being on the side of workers.
  In the 1990s, Mr. Pizzella lobbied with Jack Abramoff to exempt the 
Northern Mariana Islands from Federal labor laws. Do you know what that 
did? That allowed companies to run sweatshops while slapping ``Made in 
America'' labels on their products.
  Later, when Mr. Pizzella was in charge of data management and other 
operations at the Labor Department, the Government Accountability 
Office found that the Wage and Hour Division was egregiously 
mishandling wage theft complaints, consistently leaving vulnerable low-
wage workers out to dry, because of faulty data systems and other 
operational failures.
  After leaving the Department, Mr. Pizzella went to work for 
secretive, far-right donor groups, such as the Conservative Action 
Project, which secretly planned out the 2013 government shutdown to 
sabotage the Affordable Care Act and undermine many workers' access to 
healthcare, all while Mr. Pizzella was its highest paid employee.
  The Deputy Secretary position should be filled by someone who has 
defended worker rights, not undermined them, someone who will make 
government work for the American people, not hamstring it for political 
purposes. Mr. Pizzella is the wrong man for this job.
  President Trump talked a big game during his campaign about fighting 
for workers, but after a year of corporate tax cuts and rolling back 
commonsense protections for workplace safety, retirement security, and 
more, we know that those promises have turned out not to be worth much 
of anything.
  The Senate should send a clear message to this administration that we 
expect agencies like the NLRB and the Labor Department to stand up for 
working people, not to suck up to corporate lobbyists. Rejecting these 
two nominees would be a good first step.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cruz). Under the previous order, all time 
has expired.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Boom 
nomination?
  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Arizona (Mr. McCain).
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) 
and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) are necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there any other Senators in the Chamber 
desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 96, nays 1, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 65 Ex.]

                                YEAS--96

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Gillibrand
     Graham
     Grassley
     Harris
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Hyde-Smith
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Jones
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--1

       
     Sanders
       

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Booker
     Duckworth
     McCain
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



