

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 10 (Wednesday, January 17, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H418-H419]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1030
          INJUSTICE ANYWHERE IS A THREAT TO JUSTICE EVERYWHERE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Al Green) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am always honored to stand here 
in the well of the House. Today is no exception. I love my country, but 
I am not proud of my President.
  Mr. Speaker, I am saddened to say that the level of discourse in our 
country has been brought to an all-time low. There are people who were 
very much concerned when the President indicated that there would be a 
ban on persons from certain countries, a ban on Muslims, if you will.
  There were people who were saddened when they learned that the 
President was of the opinion that members of the LGBTQ community could 
not serve in the military.
  There were people who were saddened by the President's comments about 
SOBs playing football. Others were disheartened by the President's 
comment with reference to Charlottesville and some very fine people 
being among the racists, the bigots, the KKK.
  Well, Mr. Speaker, the latest commentary has really caused an 
international uproar. People around the world cannot believe that the 
President has made his latest comments. Mr. Speaker, these comments are 
words that are hurtful and harmful, but this is just not another person 
making these comments. This is the President of the United States of 
America.
  The President of the United States of America has the ability, the 
power, and the wherewithal to do more than simply speak these words. 
These words can be converted into policy, into policy of the United 
States of America.
  The Muslim ban comments, there was an attempt that is still going on 
to ban Muslim persons from certain countries.
  The comments about Charlottesville were encouraging persons who were 
there, many of whom were interacting with persons of color, minorities, 
and Jewish people on their jobs and in other places. It encouraged them 
to continue to do those dastardly things that they do and had in mind 
when they were saying: ``Jews will not replace us.''
  The comments that were made about the s---hole, or s---house, the 
kind of profanity that ought not emanate from the Presidency, those 
comments were made as there was an effort afoot to deal with 
immigration, to draft an immigration policy.
  The President can put his comments into policy. The President can 
drive policy with these ugly comments. The President's comments are not 
only hurtful when you hear them, but they are hurtful to people who 
have to suffer when they become policy.
  Mr. Speaker, I refuse to accept what the President is doing. I refuse 
to accept it because if you tolerate something, you will not change it. 
You will do little to change it. I am going to do everything that I can 
to change it, and it is within my power as a Member of the Congress of 
the United States of America to bring Articles of Impeachment against 
this President for what he has done. I have done it before, and I will 
do it again and again and again. I will not allow it to happen 
unchallenged.
  I know that there are many who would say that this is not 
appropriate, but I can only say, ``Injustice anywhere is a threat to 
justice everywhere,'' since we are just now removed 1 or 2 days from 
Dr. King's celebration. We are still celebrating him in my neck of the 
woods. But injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.
  If we allow this injustice to persist, then what is happening and 
said in the White House is going to impact every house in this country. 
We must take a stand against this President and his bigoted comments.

[[Page H419]]

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



