

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H25]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        CONGRATULATIONS TO NATIONAL MERIT SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENTS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize seven students from 
my district who have received the 2017 National Merit Scholarships.
  The criteria required to receive a National Merit Scholarship is 
quite difficult. In fact, of the 15,000 finalists selected, only half 
will actually receive scholarships. The recipients of this prestigious 
scholarship are Connor Schmidt of Ham Lake, Benjamin Caswell of 
Shoreview, Raffi Toghramadijan of Blaine, Rachel Cho of Blaine, Piper 
Christenson of Spring Lake Park, Catherine Lewis of Blaine, and Kenneth 
Truong of Coon Rapids. Each one of these students has big plans for the 
future which include careers in medicine, science, and engineering--all 
fields that are critically important to the success of our Nation.
  I congratulate each of these students on receiving this scholarship, 
and we look forward to watching you achieve great success in your 
respective careers.
  Good work, and good luck.


            Remembering the Life of Captain Jeffrey Vollmer

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life of one of 
Minnesota's heroes. On Tuesday, December 19, 2017, Captain Jeffrey 
Vollmer of the Mayer Fire Department died in the line of duty.
  A loving father and husband, Jeff is survived by his wife, Emily, and 
their two daughters, Anika and Kennedi. He was a 12-year veteran of the 
all-volunteer fire department in Mayer, Minnesota. Friends and 
colleagues knew him as a selfless and kind leader who was always 
willing to help others.
  Fire Chief Rod Maetzold described Jeff as the kind of guy you could 
count on when it mattered most. Jeff was an avid muskie fisherman who 
enjoyed hunting and photography. Jeff loved to work with wood. He built 
signs, tables, and even a bed set for his daughter.
  We pray for peace and comfort for his colleagues, friends, and 
family. He will be missed by so many.


                       Recognizing Jake Henriksen

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an outstanding 
servicemember from my district, Jake Henriksen. As a Centennial 
graduate and resident of Lino Lakes, Minnesota, Jake always knew he 
wanted to serve in the military. As a third-generation member of the 
U.S. Army, his service as a specialist representing the 173rd Airborne 
Infantry Brigade Combat Team continues a family legacy of service to 
our Nation.
  In just under 2 years in the service, Jake won the U.S. Army Europe 
Soldier of the Year award. Each company of the Army made up of about 
100 people selects a soldier to compete in the Best Warrior 
Competition. Jake was chosen as his company's representative. The 
competition tests soldiers' abilities in a variety of areas, including 
a physical test, a written test, marksmanship, land navigation, 
chemical defense, and medical tasks. Jake excelled in all, which is why 
he went on to earn the title of U.S. Army Europe Soldier of the Year 
affirming his commitment to excellence.
  Our community is very proud of Jake and his accomplishments. We 
admire his dedication and his commitment to serve. Congratulations, 
Jake.


        Commemorating National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate National Law 
Enforcement Appreciation Day to remember the men and women in blue who 
protect and serve our great Nation. The great State of Minnesota is 
home to many phenomenal law enforcement officers, men and women, who 
put their lives on the line each and every day to ensure the safety and 
security of our communities.
  These are the true heroes, and some, tragically, have lost their 
lives in the line of duty. In 2016, Deputy Steven Sandberg was shot and 
killed in the line of duty in St. Cloud, Minnesota. While his death was 
both senseless and tragic, we remember the courageous way he chose to 
live and serve our local community.
  In honor of brave officers like Deputy Sandberg today and every day, 
let us remember and honor the selfless service of our men and women in 
blue.

                          ____________________



