

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 50 (Thursday, March 22, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1944-S1945]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RECOGNIZING COLYER HEREFORDS AND ANGUS

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, as you may know, agriculture is 
vital to the economic success of my home State of Idaho, and ranching 
in particular has a long and proud history in the State. A rancher 
myself, I know that operating a ranch and managing land and cattle are 
challenging propositions that require quite a bit of industriousness 
and determination. While American ranches are often depicted as those 
with huge quantities of cattle and vast land holdings, it is important 
to remember the numerous small, family owned agricultural operations 
that exist all across our country. These smaller enterprises, like 
Colyer Herefords and Angus Ranch in Bruneau, are successful in part 
because they are committed to finding innovative ways to meet specific 
market demands. It is my pleasure as the chairman of the Senate 
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship to recognize Colyer 
Herefords and Angus Ranch as the Senate Small Business of the Month for 
March 2018 and to highlight the unique story of their family focused 
small business.
  Not only do small businesses like Colyer's make a positive economic 
impact to State, local, and national economies, but they also 
contribute to the well-being of our communities. A mainstay in the 
Bruneau community, the Colyers have been in business for more than 42 
years. This family owned business has worked diligently, incorporated 
new innovations into their business model, and displayed dedication to 
the quality of their product.
  Located just 60 miles southeast of Boise along the beautiful Snake 
River, Colyer Hereford and Angus Ranch has truly been a family run 
operation for decades. In 1976, the ranch's founders, Ray and Bonnie 
Colyer, sold their Bureau of Land Management permit and moved their 
herd to deeded lands and rented private lands in order to better 
monitor the health and quality of their cattle. This early commitment 
to the quality of their purebred bulls and sires has continued and is a 
key to their success in building a loyal customer base over the years. 
Innovation has also been a major focus for the Colyer family, passed 
from generation to generation. For example, in 1993, Ray and Bonnie 
added an Angus cattle herd to the ranch as a response to commercial 
customer demand for a breed of cattle uniquely suited to Idaho's 
environment. Additionally, the ranch has adapted a number of innovative 
technologies to help select the finest bulls and sires to breed 
superior cattle for their customers, including ultrasound, artificial 
insemination, DNA markers, herd management software, and embryo 
transplants.
  Today the ranch is managed by Ray and Bonnie's son and grandson, Guy 
and Kyle. Kyle and his sister Katie grew up helping out on the family 
ranch, which fostered their shared love of the industry. The two went 
on to pursue animal science degrees in college and were active in 
agriculture activities such as livestock judging and ag student 
government. Since graduating, both have helped their father, Guy, with 
the family business. Kyle helps with the day-to-day management of the 
ranch, while Katie coordinates cattle shows, manages auction 
broadcasts, and travels to sales across the country. Katie is also a 
part-time employee of the Idaho Cattlemen's Association and owns her 
own video production company. The Colyer family and their enterprise 
have also greatly benefited from the hard work and expertise of 
longtime employees Adan Juarez and Tony Willis, who have worked on the 
ranch for over 30 and 15 years, respectively.
  Apart from the Colyers' commitment to their product, their commitment 
to the community is also self-evident. Several members of the family 
serve as emergency first responders on a volunteer basis in the Bruneau 
area. Guy is a member of several local and national cattle 
associations, including the Owyhee County Cattle Association, the Idaho 
Cattle Association, and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. He 
also serves on the board of directors of the American Hereford 
Association. Guy and his wife, Sherry, have also served as advisers for 
the American Junior Hereford Association to help mentor the next 
generation of ranchers.
  Colyer Herefords and Angus has been a pillar of Bruneau and 
surrounding communities for many, many years. This family owned 
business is a prime example of the American entrepreneurial spirit. 
Through hard work, a commitment to a quality product, and community 
service, the ranch has thrived as a small family owned agricultural 
operation.

[[Page S1945]]

  I would like to extend my sincerest congratulations to the Colyer 
family and all of the employees at Colyer Herefords and Angus for being 
selected as the March 2018 Small Business of the Month. You make our 
great State of Idaho proud, and I look forward to watching your 
continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



