

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1450-S1451]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              150TH ANNIVERSARY OF BIDDEFORD SAVINGS BANK

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 150th 
anniversary of Biddeford Saving Bank, a financial leader supporting the 
success and growth of the communities it serves with six locations 
spanning Biddeford, Waterboro, Scarborough, and Kennebunk, ME. The bank 
has been recognized for the support of its employees and exceptional 
customer service, emphasizing the importance of local involvement 
through volunteerism and support of charities.
  Founded in 1867, Biddeford Savings Bank has promoted teamwork, 
personal growth, and good performance amongst its employees for 150 
years. In addition to supporting their employees, Biddeford Savings 
Bank values its customers as if they are owners. Biddeford Savings Bank 
assists first-time homebuyers and works with small businesses to ensure 
growth and success for local owners. The bank also improves its 
business practices by developing new banking services for customers.
  Biddeford Savings Bank is not only committed to its customers, but 
also to its neighbors including schools, businesses, and organizations 
that share their desire to improve the community around them. Over the 
years, the bank has hosted holiday food and gift drives, as well as 
musical events to raise money for organizations such as the Community 
Bicycle Center in Biddeford, ME, and United Way. In January of 2017, 
the bank sponsored the Atlantic Plunge, a fundraiser hosted by Caring 
Unlimited, in which participants jumped into the ocean to raise 
awareness for and support the end of domestic violence in York County. 
Through local events and sponsorships, Biddeford Savings Bank promotes 
community engagement for individuals in all financial stages of life. 
For local

[[Page S1451]]

students, the bank sponsors two programs focused on financial 
education. These programs allow for second-graders to learn the basics 
of money and banking and for high school students to explore money 
management and gain tools for future financial success. Employees of 
the bank have also spent time volunteering for local organizations such 
as the Scarborough Land Trust. In celebration of 150 years in business, 
Biddeford Savings Bank gave each of its employees $150 to donate to any 
nonprofit of their choice, including Biddeford Food Pantry and the 
Maine Cancer Foundation. These volunteer opportunities have allowed for 
employees to better understand the local economic culture and recognize 
concerns, which allows for them to better serve their customers.
  With 150 years of banking experience, Biddeford Savings Bank offers a 
variety of banking options for individuals and businesses with varying 
financial needs. The bank continues to promote the financial stability 
and prosperity of its customers, supporting the success of Mainers 
across generations. I join with its customers in congratulating 
Biddeford Savings Bank for improving its longstanding leadership in the 
communities it serves throughout Southern Maine.

                          ____________________



