

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 21 (Friday, February 2, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 21 (Friday, February 2, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H736-H737]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, and Mr. 
             Huffman):
       H.R. 4912. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
     collectively, to the American women who joined the workforce 
     during World War II, providing the vehicles, weaponry, and 
     ammunition to win the war, that were referred to as ``Rosie 
     the Riveter'', in recognition of their contributions to the 
     Nation and the inspiration they have provided to ensuing 
     generations; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HARRIS (for himself, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Cummings, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 4913. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 816 East Salisbury Parkway 
     in Salisbury, Maryland, as the ``Sgt. Maj. Wardell B. Turner 
     Post Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 4914. A bill to better support our early childhood 
     educators and elementary school and secondary school 
     teachers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.

[[Page H737]]

  

           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself, Mr. Messer, Mr. Babin, and 
             Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 4915. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide penalties for certain obstructions of the enforcement 
     of Federal immigration laws, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself and Mrs. Black):
       H.R. 4916. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to prohibit the Secretary of the Treasury from requiring 
     that the identity of contributors to 501(c) organizations be 
     included in annual returns; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 4917. A bill to amend the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 to provide testimonial subpoena authority, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Correa, and 
             Mr. Gonzalez of Texas):
       H.R. 4918. A bill to authorize dedicated domestic terrorism 
     offices within the Department of Homeland Security, the 
     Department of Justice, and the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation to analyze and monitor domestic terrorist 
     activity and require the Federal Government to take steps to 
     prevent domestic terrorism; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALKER:
       H.R. 4919. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to provide for the establishment of the National 
     Accuracy Clearinghouse; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mrs. Comstock):
       H. Res. 721. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of February 4, 2018, as National Cancer 
     Prevention Day; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H. Res. 722. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of ``Black Women's Heart Health Awareness Week''; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



