

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 7 (Thursday, January 11, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S168-S169]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 515

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 515, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Labor to maintain a publicly available list of all 
employers that relocate a call center overseas, to make such companies 
ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to require 
disclosure of the physical location of business agents engaging in 
customer service communications, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 878

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 878, a bill to 
establish privacy protections for customers of broadband Internet 
access service and other telecommunications services.


                                 S. 963

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 963, a bill to encourage and 
support partnerships between the public and private sectors to improve 
our Nation's social programs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1028, a bill to provide for 
the establishment and maintenance of a Family Caregiving Strategy, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Daines, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that 
section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against 
providers and users of interactive computer services of Federal and 
State criminal and civil law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home infusion therapy 
services temporary transitional payment under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1767

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1767, a bill to reauthorize the 
farm to school program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1808, a bill to 
extend temporarily the Federal Perkins Loan program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1989

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1989, a bill to 
enhance transparency and accountability for online political 
advertisements by requiring those who purchase and publish such ads to 
disclose information about the advertisements to the public, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2037

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2037, a bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
regarding proprietary institutions of higher education in order to 
protect students and taxpayers.


                                S. 2054

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2054, a bill to amend the 
Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 to establish a program to provide 
advance payments under the Emergency Conservation Program for the 
repair or replacement of fencing.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy), the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) and the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) were added as cosponsors of S. 2152, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to provide for assistance for 
victims of child pornography, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2235

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2235, a bill to 
establish a tiered hiring preference for members of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces.


                              S. RES. 367

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was

[[Page S169]]

added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 367, a resolution condemning the 
Government of Iran for its violence against demonstrators and calling 
for peaceful resolution to the concerns of the citizens of Iran.


                              S. RES. 368

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. Res. 368, a resolution supporting the right of all Iranian citizens 
to have their voices heard.
  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the 
Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee) and 
the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added as cosponsors of 
S. Res. 368, supra.

                          ____________________



