

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 57 (Tuesday, April 10, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2043-S2044]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




SENATE RESOLUTION 455--RELATIVE TO THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE DANIEL K. 
                AKAKA, SENATOR FROM THE STATE OF HAWAII

  Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Ms. Hirono, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
Inhofe, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Alexander, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Booker, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Brown, Mr. Burr, 
Ms. Cantwell, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Carper, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
Cassidy, Ms. Collins, Mr. Coons, Mr. Corker, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Cortez 
Masto, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Daines, Mr. Donnelly, Ms. 
Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Enzi, Mrs. Ernst, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. 
Fischer, Mr. Flake, Mr. Gardner, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Graham, Mr. 
Grassley, Ms. Harris, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
Heitkamp, Mr. Heller, Mr. Hoeven, Mrs. Hyde-Smith, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
Johnson, Mr. Jones, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. King, Ms. Klobuchar, 
Mr. Lankford, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Lee, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Markey, Mr. McCain, 
Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Moran, Ms. Murkowski, 
Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Paul, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Peters, 
Mr. Portman, Mr. Reed, Mr. Risch, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Rubio, 
Mr. Sanders, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Scott, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Shelby, Ms. Smith, 
Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Tester, Mr. Thune, Mr. Tillis, Mr. 
Toomey, Mr. Udall, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Warner, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
Whitehouse, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Wyden, and Mr. Young) submitted the 
following resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 455

       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka was first elected to 
     Congress in 1976 and served in the House of Representatives 
     for 13 years and in the Senate for 23 years;
       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka was the first Senator 
     of Native Hawaiian ancestry;
       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka served in the United 
     States Army during World War II;
       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka studied education at 
     the University of Hawaii using benefits from the Servicemen's 
     Readjustment Act of 1944 (commonly known as the ``G.I. 
     Bill'') (58 Stat. 284, chapter 268) and became a teacher and 
     principal in Hawaii schools;
       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka served as a member of 
     a number of Senate committees and as the chairman of--
       (1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs;
       (2) the Committee on Indian Affairs;
       (3) the Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, 
     the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia of the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs;
       (4) the Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support of 
     the Committee on Armed Services; and
       (5) the Subcommittees on National Parks and Mineral 
     Resources Development and Production of the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources;
       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka served as the vice-
     chair of the Senate Democratic Steering and Outreach 
     Committee;
       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka enacted legislation 
     to provide needed benefits to veterans, to protect working 
     families and consumers, to improve government management and 
     support the Federal workforce, to empower Native Hawaiians 
     and other native peoples, to protect the environment and 
     historic sites, to improve infrastructure, and to support 
     exploration and research of outer space and the oceans of the 
     earth;
       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka served with great 
     humility, faith, integrity,

[[Page S2044]]

     and love of his family, the State of Hawaii, and the United 
     States; and
       Whereas the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka personified the 
     spirit of aloha, and represented and epitomized the people of 
     the State of Hawaii: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That--
       (1) the Senate--
       (A) has heard with profound sorrow and deep regret the 
     announcement of the death of the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka, 
     Senator from the State of Hawaii; and
       (B) respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate 
     communicate this resolution to the House of Representatives 
     and transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to the 
     family of the Honorable Daniel K. Akaka; and
       (2) when the Senate adjourns on the date of adoption of 
     this resolution, it stands adjourned as a further mark of 
     respect to the memory of the deceased Senator.

                          ____________________



