

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 2 (Thursday, January 4, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 2 (Thursday, January 4, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S29-S35]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the previous order, the 
Senate will proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the 
following nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read the nomination of Walter David Counts III, 
of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Western District 
of Texas.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Georgia.


    Congratulating the University of Georgia Bulldogs Football Team

  Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I rise to talk about the tradition of New 
Year's Day, the beginning of a new year, our great country, and many of 
its great traditions.
  I am sorry the minority leader left so quickly because I wanted to 
brag about how great the New York City Police and law enforcement were 
on New Year's Eve. Millions of Americans gathered to watch the ball 
drop in New York City and the new year to start. We all enjoy doing 
that in the warmth of our homes, particularly on days like today, but 
there is also the warmth of America.
  There is a second great tradition that takes place on New Year's Day 
as well. It is called the college football season, which is capped off 
by the Rose Bowl, which is played in Pasadena, CA. This year, the Rose 
Bowl was played between the University of Georgia, my home State, and 
the University of Oklahoma. It was one of the greatest football games, 
I think anybody would admit, that has ever been played in that game 
before, and I am proud of both universities.
  I am equally proud of the University of Alabama and Clemson 
University--the other two teams that played for the right to play in 
Atlanta, GA, on Monday night of next week, on January 8, to decide the 
collegiate national championship. My Bulldogs of Georgia will be one of 
those two teams. They defeated Oklahoma 54 to 48 in a great football 
game in California. Alabama made a decisive victory over Clemson in New 
Orleans, LA, in the Sugar Bowl. The two will meet this coming Monday 
night in the Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, GA.
  I don't know which is going to win. I know which one I am pulling 
for. I know which one I am on the floor bragging about tonight, but I 
am equally bragging about all of our collegiate athletics in this 
country and the great men and women who make it work--the coaches, 
athletic directors, and people who make it go.
  In particular, with Georgia's victory, it prompts me to come to the 
floor and talk about Kirby Smart. Kirby is the head coach of the 
University of Georgia. For 9 years preceding his coming to Georgia, he 
was assistant to Nick Saban, coach for the University of Alabama. They 
will play against each another on Monday night for this year's national 
championship. It is ironic that the coach and his pupil will be the two 
coaches in that great game.

  Kirby is a University of Georgia graduate. He was a great University 
of Georgia football player in his own right. He came to the University 
of Georgia with high hopes as an alumnus, hoping that he could be the 
person to take Georgia to new heights.
  It took him only a year. The first season was 8 and 5. The second 
season was this year, 12 and 1--now 13 and 1--winning the Rose Bowl and 
playing for the national championship on Monday night.
  Kirby Smart is not just smart because he knows football; he is smart 
because he knows how to be a leader. You saw an example of a man in the 
Rose Bowl who never took credit himself. He always gave it to his other 
coaches and to his other players. He never tried to be the winner. He 
always tried to be in the background. He put others ahead of himself, 
but deep down inside--and behind the great victory that was won that 
night--it was his spirit, his encouragement, his living the dream that 
all the Georgia players followed.
  I want to talk about a couple of them. Sony Michel was the offensive 
player of the game, one of the greatest running backs ever to come out 
of the University of Georgia, and we had some good ones--Frankie 
Sinkwich, Charlie Trippy, and Herschel Walker. On defense, Roquan 
Smith, the Dick Butkus Award winner, played a great defensive game. 
Then, with the combination of leadership they brought to the team on 
the field and the quiet leadership and confidence Kirby Smart brought 
to the team as its coach, they won that game 54 to 48 in a double-
overtime elimination of the University of Oklahoma.
  My congratulations go to Oklahoma and their quarterback Baker 
Mayfield, who was the Heisman Trophy winner, on playing a great game.
  I wish Alabama a lot of luck on Monday night, but not enough to beat 
my Bulldogs. This is going to be our chance to win a national 
championship for the first time in 38 years of football. We are going 
to be in my home State of Georgia in our newest athletic facility, the 
Mercedes-Benz Stadium. I think it is an appropriate place for us to 
win, so I am going to say ``Go Dawgs'' from the floor of the Senate.
  On Monday night, I hope Kirby Smart remembers the reason I am 
bragging about him today on the floor is that he is going to be our 
leader Monday night. He is going to carry us to victory one more time. 
I am counting on him, just like all the Georgia graduates all over the 
country who watched with joy on January 1, and we will be looking on 
Monday night with anticipation and, hopefully, satisfaction.
  I yield back the remainder of my time.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. BOOZMAN. Thank you, Mr. President.
  I have to add, coming from Arkansas, that I wish to congratulate the 
Southeast Conference for being the championship teams. It is going to 
be a great game.


                   Fort Smith, Arkansas, Bicentennial

  Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the bicentennial of Fort 
Smith, AR.
  On Christmas Day in 1817, Army troops established a western frontier 
military post on the confluence of the Arkansas and Poteau Rivers. MAJ 
Stephen Long named it Fort Smith, after GEN Thomas Smith, commander of 
the U.S. Army rifle regiment.
  To recognize the significant milestone, the community is organizing a 
year-long celebration that highlights its rich history, its citizens, 
and its future. While Fort Smith was abandoned by 1824, the community 
that sprung up around it continued to grow and played a unique role in 
westward expansion and the preservation of law and order in our 
developing Nation.
  Judge Isaac Parker paved the way for bringing order to Indian 
Territory, and

[[Page S30]]

great lawmen like Deputy U.S. Marshal Bass Reeves helped lay the 
foundation that shaped Fort Smith's role in the history of the U.S. 
Marshals Service. Reeves was one of the most well-respected lawmen of 
all time. To recognize his efforts, the Bass Reeves Legacy Initiative 
raised money to honor him with a monument in the community's downtown.
  Reeves' career is well documented, as are the stories of Fort Smith 
during this period. In 1968, Charles Portis depicted Fort Smith's role 
in taming the West in his book ``True Grit,'' which portrays a teenage 
girl's efforts to avenge her father's death with a U.S. Marshal by her 
side.
  The bond between the community and the U.S. Marshals Service is 
strong and continues today, as Fort Smith will be the home of the 
future U.S. Marshals Museum scheduled to open in 2019. Part of its 
collection will include a gun and badge that belonged to Bass Reeves.
  The national historic site and other organizations have done an 
exceptional job of keeping the community's history alive. Promoting its 
history in this way will also have positive benefits for the future. 
Fort Smith is a city with an incredible story to tell in its faith 
communities, its schools, its industries, its arts, and its culture.
  The community is marking its bicentennial with events throughout the 
year that include an attempt to break the world record for a lip dub 
video at the Old Fort Days Rodeo Parade and the city's first fort 
building competition for kids.
  I was pleased to contribute to the time capsule, and I am looking 
forward to seeing many old friends at our high school reunion. A lot 
has changed since my days at Northside High School as a Grizzly, but 
the steadfast resilience and spirit of the citizens of Fort Smith have 
remained.
  I am proud to be a native of Fort Smith and look forward to the 
events during this year-long celebration. It is home to a growing 
university, new medical school, and vibrant new industries.
  I know Fort Smith is starting the 21st century on a solid foundation. 
We have much to celebrate from the past, but even more to look forward 
to in the future. We are forever grateful to the men and women who have 
encouraged the community's progress and implemented their ideas to 
shape the city for the next generation.
  Dr. Jerry Stewart is one such leader, who led a life dedicated to 
public service. He had a successful career as a pulmonologist and 
served as CEO of Cooper Clinic, leading the growth and development of 
one of the region's top medical care providers. After his retirement, 
he helped underserved patients at the Good Samaritan Clinic in River 
Valley Primary Care.
  He was well respected in the medical community and admired for his 
influence beyond the walls of the clinic. His influence was felt across 
the community as a leader in civic organizations and community boards, 
including serving on the Fort Smith Public School Board and as chairman 
of the board for the Fort Smith Chamber of Commerce and the Fort Smith 
United Way. Truly, the list goes on and on.
  Dr. Stewart passed away December 26, but his legacy will live on. I 
appreciated and valued his friendship and, like so many others, will 
greatly miss him.
  Fort Smith was blessed with Dr. Stewart's leadership and his 
guidance. It continues to be fortunate to have talented leaders with a 
vision and dedication to make this great city even better.
  Congratulations to the members of the 200th anniversary committee for 
all of their hard work in planning to celebrate 200 years of Fort Smith 
history. I am excited for the community as it comes together to 
recognize and commemorate this historic milestone and wish all the very 
best as the events take place throughout 2018.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  The Senator from Connecticut.


                      Puerto Rico Recovery Effort

  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am here to talk about our fellow 
Americans in Puerto Rico. Even as the Northeast is gripped by a storm 
of impressive proportions, Puerto Rico is still recovering from the 
hurricane that hit that island 106 days ago.
  I visited Puerto Rico with my friend and colleague, Senator Murphy, 
yesterday and the day before, to bring back to my colleagues a fact-
based report on how the recovery effort is going and how ample Federal 
support has been.
  I come to the floor today furious and frustrated. The people of 
Puerto Rico have a right to be furious, as well, because they have been 
denied the basic help and relief that this great Nation--the greatest 
in the history of the world--owes to all Americans.
  Let there be no doubt that the people of Puerto Rico are our fellow 
Americans. They have fought in our wars. They have come to the mainland 
and gone back, contributing to our communities, as well as theirs.
  They are in our communities in Connecticut, which has the highest 
concentration of people from Puerto Rico and their descendants of any 
State in the country. We are proud of the Puerto Ricans in Connecticut 
and of the Puerto Rican families and people who are coming from the 
mainland in an exodus unmatched in recent history.
  The reason for that out-migration is that Puerto Rico is in the midst 
of a humanitarian and economic crisis. Let me repeat that. Puerto Rico 
is in a humanitarian and economic crisis 106 days after Hurricane 
Maria.
  It is still in triage. Half of the population lacks reliable 
electricity. Almost half lacks drinkable, healthy water. The tourist 
industry--the lifeblood of its economy--is shrinking and struggling. 
About half the hotels still are not open, and the unemployment rate is 
well above 10 percent--double the rate of unemployment here on the 
mainland. Housing continues to be a major problem. Of the homes that 
need temporary relief, only half of them have been provided the blue 
tarps because they have not been delivered.

  I want to pay tribute to the first responders, the Corps of 
Engineers, and FEMA workers, as well as the National Guard from 
Connecticut and elsewhere who are on the ground serving and sacrificing 
for their fellow American. They lack the support they need in resources 
and commitment from the administration and from this Congress. 
Resources and support have been denied them because of a lack of will, 
not a lack of money.
  Many of the schools there are shuttered, and students have been 
denied the privilege to continue their education. The healthcare system 
of the island is still in shambles. Primary care is struggling to 
recover because of the lack of electricity. A doctor's office simply 
cannot run without electricity, nor can manufacturing plants be 
operated without a reliable source of power.
  In restoring power, the Corps of Engineers has provided generators in 
places where formerly there were plants actually producing power. 
Generators are a temporary source of power, not a reliable permanent 
source. Transmission is still down in many parts of the country.
  To add insult to injury, Puerto Rico is stuck with a tax as a result 
of the action of this Congress and the administration--a tax imposed 
only on manufacturing in foreign countries. Puerto Rico is treated as a 
foreign country for purposes of the 12.5 percent tax on certain 
manufacturers. That is simply unconscionable. Manufacturing plants will 
soon be facing the decision of whether to stay or go, and many of them 
will go, adding to the unemployment situation there.
  It is heartbreaking and gut-wrenching to visit this island and to 
walk in a neighborhood, as Senator Murphy and I did on Wednesday night, 
and find darkness after the sun goes down--total darkness, except for a 
few isolated lights here and there. How can students study? How can 
parents care for children?
  On that Tuesday night, we walked through a neighborhood in downtown 
San Juan that was dark because of the lack of electricity. There simply 
are not enough generators for every home to have one. Generators, 
themselves, are only a stopgap source of power.
  The human faces and voices are gripping and riveting from the 
suffering

[[Page S31]]

that people in Puerto Rico--our fellow Americans--still endure. The 
lack of Federal commitment and response is shameful and disgraceful.
  There are steps that we must take immediately. In the short-term 
relief package that is coming to us from the House of Representatives, 
we must make sure that some of that aid--a significant proportion--is 
specifically targeted to Puerto Rico. The number requested by the 
Governor is $94 billion. It is a number that is fully and amply 
supported by fact. The total package coming from the House is only $81 
billion, and it is supposed to cover expenses in Florida and Texas as 
well as Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. So that number has to be 
vastly increased. Longer term, there must be a change in the Tax Code 
to eliminate that 12.5 or 13 percent tax that discriminates against 
Puerto Rico as if it were a foreign country and as if the residents in 
Puerto Rico were citizens of another country. They are Americans.
  The Medicaid formula must be changed so that it is fair to Puerto 
Rico. The 20 percent commitment that now goes to Puerto Rico, unlike 
other States, must be increased so as to treat Puerto Rico, in fact, as 
if it were a State and so that it is given an adequate match.
  These kinds of commonsense steps must be the beginning of more than 
just repair and more than just rebuilding. It must be a full recovery 
with a vision for the future.
  I have proposed, with Senator Sanders and others of our colleagues, a 
Marshall Plan for Puerto Rico. That is the kind of commitment that is 
necessary. The $150 billion includes not only the $94 billion that is 
necessary to repair and recover right away but a longer term plan to 
enable the island to be back on its feet financially, to recover from 
the near bankruptcy that it is enduring, to able its institutions to 
function fully, and to permit its healthcare system to rely on 
electricity from plants that are powered in an economic and 
environmentally friendly way.
  There is, sadly, the hint also of potential corruption in the 
Whitefish contract that now has been withdrawn and in the Bronze Star 
contract for tarps that is under review. Investigations must be 
concluded quickly and thoroughly so that we are assured that Federal 
dollars are being used honestly and effectively.
  We must make a commitment to use the island's natural advantages. 
Electricity is essential. It is not a luxury, not a convenience. It is 
vital. It is the lifeblood of that island economically and humanly. One 
of the island's great advantages is its sunlight. Solar has to be used 
more effectively and widely as a source of power.
  My hope is that we can make this disaster relief program a Marshall 
Plan-like program for the island in the long term with bipartisan 
support.
  There is nothing political about a neighborhood in darkness, about 
children unable to go to school, about health facilities closed, 
electricity lacking, and water undrinkable. These are basic needs that 
we have an obligation to come together on both sides of the aisle and 
meet.
  I hope that we will do so and that we will match the resilience and 
resolve that I saw in meeting with Governor Rossello and all of his 
team. The island's residents and FEMA and other Federal workers were 
also there.
  Governor Rossello has provided the kind of courage and commitment 
that are necessary to lead his people in this time of challenge. We 
must match the courage and strength of the residents on the island with 
equal resolve here that we will meet the needs of our fellow Americans 
and that we will keep our commitment, as we do always in times of 
crisis, to rebuild and to recommit and make sure that we leave no one 
there behind.

  I am proud that we are working with Governor Rossello. After meeting 
with him yesterday and after meeting with him in the wake of the 
hurricane when I first visited--I had the privilege of flying over the 
island, and I saw the devastation, with whole villages destroyed, 
houses and community centers completely razed--progress has been made. 
Governor Rossello is to be commended for his continuing perseverance, 
as well as the people of Puerto Rico in their resolve and resilience, 
but we must now do our part and match that resilience and resolve with 
a true commitment that we will leave no American behind and keep faith 
with the people of Puerto Rico.
  I am proud that many in the Puerto Rican community in Connecticut 
have shared their stories with me, and I look forward to returning to 
them this weekend and sharing my stories with them of their families 
and their friends on that island.
  It is a beautiful island that has such great promise and so embodies 
the future of our Nation in its patriotism and its dedication to the 
ideals of America.
  Thank you, Mr. President.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Wyoming.


                     Tax Reform Bill and Healthcare

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, when we were debating the tax relief 
law--the tax reduction law, the tax cut law--Republicans predicted that 
it would be very good for the people of our country. Democrats like 
Nancy Pelosi predicted that it would be ``Armageddon.'' She said it 
would be the ``end of the world.'' Well, that was just last month, and 
it is already very clear to me that we have won the argument. People 
across the country are seeing the benefits. Thanks to this Republican 
tax relief law, Nancy Pelosi is seeing that hard-working Americans have 
actually won as a result of this law being passed.
  Businesses around the country have begun turning those tax cuts into 
higher wages for many workers. Almost every day there is another 
business announcement about bonuses of more than $1,000 for workers. We 
are seeing it for hundreds of thousands of workers at businesses all 
across the country. They are raising wages and also investing millions 
of dollars back into the workers who make the companies so productive 
for our country.
  Democrats are just wrong about tax reform. I am hearing it at home as 
I visit with people and stop in the drugstore and the grocery store 
around the State of Wyoming. They are saying: Look, anybody who does 
the math sees that it is a good deal for them. It doubled the standard 
deduction, lowered the rates, and raised the child tax credit. All of 
these things have been very, very helpful, certainly, to people in my 
State of Wyoming.
  It is interesting listening to Democrats because they think they have 
great ideas, and they are just proven wrong about the facts. One of the 
ones I want to talk about today is something that the Senator from 
Vermont has been talking about with regard to healthcare. He has 
essentially wanted to scrap the U.S. healthcare system and replace it 
with a government-run system.
  As he said, the current system under ObamaCare is the most 
bureaucratic, inefficient, and expensive system in the world. He often 
points to a single-payer system--sort of what they have right now in 
Great Britain. Of course, who would be paying for that? That would be 
the American taxpayers dealing with the incredible expenses of a 
program like that.
  I want to point out what is actually happening today in Great 
Britain, in the system that the Senator from Vermont--the father of an 
American single-payer plan, one that a number of Democrats have signed 
on to--where the authorities in Great Britain just told hospitals to 
cancel 50,000 operations in January and to put them off until next 
month because they are just too busy doing other things. So scheduled 
operations were canceled. Now, these are surgeries for things like 
cataracts, knee replacements, and hip replacements.
  Facilities are turning away all but the most urgent cases in need of 
care. They are closing outpatient clinics. Why? Because it is winter, 
and it is flu season, and the British healthcare system, based on a 
single-payer, taxpayer-run system, is not prepared to deal with the 
needs of the people of that country.
  So hospitals across the country of Great Britain have canceled 
surgeries that have been planned and for which people had decided to 
take off time from work to have done according to their schedules. 
Forget it; they have been delayed.
  One doctor in England actually said that they are seeing, in his 
words, ``third-world conditions''--third world conditions, describing 
the British healthcare system today. This was an

[[Page S32]]

Army doctor who did three tours at a field hospital in Afghanistan, 
somebody who knows what third-world conditions are truly like.
  An article in the British newspaper the Guardian, out yesterday, 
said: ``Hospitals are reporting growing chaos''--growing chaos--``with 
a spike in winter flu leaving frail patients facing 12-hour waits, and 
some units are running out of corridor space''--corridor space.
  Now, that is what the situation is like in British hospitals right 
now, today. It turns out it happened before in Great Britain. Last 
winter, they had a similar problem with too many sick people and not 
enough options for care. Back then, the British Red Cross called the 
situation a ``humanitarian crisis.''
  In today's New York Times--this morning's edition, page 9--talking 
about the British healthcare system and the problems with it, the chief 
executive of the National Health Service in England, Simon Stevens, in 
a speech to Parliament, recently said: ``The N.H.S. waiting list will 
grow to five million people'' coming down the line--grow to 5 million 
people. How would the American people like to be one of 5 million 
people waiting to get an appointment, waiting for an operation, in the 
waiting line? That is what Senator Sanders and the Democrats who 
propose this government-run system are talking about for our country.
  The scenes unfolding across hospitals in Britain--and I will describe 
one that is outline and written about today in the New York Times. It 
says:

       Tuesday night, the emergency ward at Kingston Hospital in 
     southwestern London looked more like an airport lounge than a 
     hospital, with patients sprawled out in the waiting room.
       ``There's no real system or order; it's a jungle in here,'' 
     said Nancy Harper, who had accompanied her 87-year-old 
     grandmother, who was lying down and complaining of 
     excruciating pain in her lower back.
       ``It's been more than five hours,'' Ms. Harper said. ``We 
     get to the front of the queue and then someone more ill comes 
     in and we get pushed back. It's outrageous.''

  That is the healthcare system our Democratic colleagues are promoting 
for the United States--government-run, the government deciding, 
government rationing care.
  The system in Great Britain is strained under normal conditions, even 
when it is not flu season. There is no margin for error. When something 
as routine as winter hits, the healthcare system goes completely off 
the rails. Is that the kind of chaos Democrats in Washington want for 
the United States of America? Do they want third-world conditions in 
hospitals; frail and elderly patients waiting 12 hours in a hallway 
just to get care; people getting a call telling them that the surgery 
they have been planning for--and maybe they have family members coming 
to take care of other things around the home or to take care of 
Grandmom--has to be put off, that they will have to wait until next 
month? Fifty thousand people will be receiving that call in Britain 
this month.
  When the government controls healthcare, it always ends up rationing 
care. When the bills start adding up, so do the delays. That is what 
happens everywhere in the world when they try a single-payer scheme. 
They get long lines of people waiting for care and care being denied.
  Senator Sanders put out the same plan a couple of years ago. It is 
interesting because one of the most liberal columnists at the New York 
Times--the newspaper that ran this story today about the British 
healthcare system--said that this single-payer plan would lead to 
rationing. Well, it does. The article went on to say that in order to 
keep the costs down, Washington would have to ``say no to patients, 
telling them that they can't always have the treatment they want.'' 
That is the side of the story the Democrats will not talk about. The 
author of that editorial, the columnist at the New York Times, said 
that Senator Sanders ``isn't coming clean on that.'' The Democrats 
aren't coming clean on that. That is what happens in a single-payer 
system. Democrats who are pushing for a Washington takeover of 
Americans' healthcare are still not coming clean about the rationing of 
care that it would cause.
  Republicans think patients and doctors should be the ones making 
those decisions, not government bureaucrats. Democrats who want to pass 
this new litmus test--and it is a litmus test for the liberal left--say 
Washington should make decisions for us. I disagree. They say that you 
are going to get what the government gives you. To me and to the 
American people, that is not what the American people want.
  As a doctor who has taken care of patients for 25 years in Wyoming, 
patients want the care they need from a doctor they choose at lower 
costs. That is the goal--not single-payer, government-run healthcare. 
Parents need to be able to be involved with the doctor, hospital, and 
their child in terms of what is best for that child, not the government 
coming in and making the decisions. Seniors ought to be able to decide, 
along with their doctor, whether it is time for a new hip or a new 
knee, not the government saying: We are only going to pay this many 
this year and that is it. And if you are not done this year, get in 
line for next year. And when next year comes in January, 50,000 
operations push them back another month.
  It is unfortunate, what we see is happening with the British 
healthcare system for the patients there, the doctors, the nurses, the 
shortages, all of the issues they have there. The issue is, do we want 
that for our country? We do not.
  I started this by talking about Nancy Pelosi calling the tax relief 
reduction bill Armageddon and the worst thing in the world. She was 
wrong on that. Senator Sanders is wrong about his claims that a one-
size-fits-all, government-paid, national healthcare plan that all of 
the American people would be under, government control, no individual 
choice, no patient control, not working with their doctors in their 
communities--I believe that would be wrong for America, and I believe 
that the Democrats who are supporting that and proposing that have a 
different view of America than certainly the people of Wyoming.
  I think what is happening in England is a mistake and would be a 
mistake for the United States. It is not something the American people 
want or will, I believe, ever tolerate
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Fischer). The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. FLAKE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                      Remembering Thomas S. Monson

  Mr. FLAKE. Madam President, I rise today to honor the selfless and 
dedicated life of Thomas S. Monson, the 16th president of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
  After nearly seven decades of church leadership and service, 
President Monson passed away on Tuesday evening. Millions of members of 
the LDS Church around the globe mourn his passing as we celebrate his 
life.
  There is much that can be said about what President Monson taught us 
from the pulpit. There is much more to be learned about what he did 
when he wasn't speaking--the sick whom he visited, the weary he 
sustained, the jobless he aided, and the homeless he sheltered.
  A reoccurring theme throughout his life and his ministry was ``the 
rescue.'' He spoke movingly of a painting he had seen in a gallery in 
England that featured, as he described it, ``heavy-laden black clouds 
and the fury of a turbulent sea portending danger and death. A life 
from a stranded vessel gleaming far off. In the foreground, tossed high 
by incoming waves of foaming water, a large lifeboat, men pulling 
mightily on the oars plunging into the tempest. On the shore stands a 
wife and two children, wet with rain and whipped by wind. They gaze 
anxiously seaward.''
  ``In my mind,'' President Monson said, ``I abbreviated the name of 
the painting. To me, it became ``To the Rescue.''
  Throughout his life, President Monson went to the rescue of those in 
need. He possessed a genuine love for those who were sad, downtrodden, 
and less fortunate.
  He was quoted as saying:

       I firmly believe that the sweetest experience in mortality 
     is to know that our Heavenly Father has worked through us to 
     accomplish an objective in the life of another person.


[[Page S33]]


  This, he took to heart. In his early years of church service, 
President Monson presided over a congregation with 85 widows. Although 
he was their appointed church leader for just a few short years, the 
love he felt for those widows was evident. He continued to visit each 
widow throughout her remaining life and was present at the funeral for 
each of his dear friends.
  He encouraged all of us to ``extend the hand that helps and the heart 
that knows compassion.'' My colleagues here would be interested to know 
that President Monson often quoted Abraham Lincoln saying: ``If you 
would win a man to your cause, first convince him that you are his 
sincere friend.''
  President Monson's example of service and rescue was recognized by 
many world leaders. In an effort to promote America's spirit of 
generosity, President Ronald Reagan appointed him to his Task Force on 
Private Sector Initiatives. President Monson met with religious leaders 
of all faiths to talk about the welfare program of the church, which 
has been recognized as being highly successful in its scope and in its 
mission.
  In closing, President Monson's daughter, Ann Monson Dibb, observed 
how her father embodied the Scripture in James that reads: ``Pure 
religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the 
fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself 
unspotted from the world.'' There is no better description of the life 
and legacy of Thomas S. Monson. May we do the same by rushing to the 
rescue of those in need.
  I yield the floor.
  Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. GARDNER. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                     Rescinding the Cole Memorandum

  Mr. GARDNER. Madam President, up until about 8:58 this morning, we 
believed in Colorado that States rights would be protected. Up until 
about 8:58, maybe 8:55--until Twitter told us otherwise--we believed 
the will of Colorado voters would be respected. Why did we believe 
that? Because of conversations I had with then-Senator Jeff Sessions 
prior to his confirmation as Attorney General about what would happen 
with Colorado's marijuana policy.
  At the time, prior to his confirmation, then-Senator Sessions told me 
there were no plans to reverse the Cole memorandum. Then-Senator 
Sessions told me marijuana simply wasn't going to be on President 
Trump's agenda; that it was something they weren't going to deal with; 
it was something President Trump simply wasn't going to focus on.
  That was back in the spring of 2016, and up until 8:58 this morning, 
that was the policy. One tweet later, one policy later--a complete 
reversal of what many of us on the Hill were told before the 
confirmation and what we had continued to believe the last year. Then, 
without any notification, conversation, or dialogue with Congress, 
completely reversed.
  Now, perhaps the Department of Justice didn't think this would be a 
big deal. I understand Attorney General Jeff Sessions' opposition to 
the legalization of marijuana. I opposed the legalization of marijuana 
in Colorado, but this is about a decision by the State of Colorado. We 
were told that States rights would be protected and not just by the 
Attorney General, then the nominee to be Attorney General, we were told 
that by then-Candidate Donald Trump.
  In Colorado, in July of 2016, then-Candidate Trump was asked if he 
would use Federal authority to shut down sales of recreational 
marijuana in States like Colorado. Then-Candidate Donald Trump said: 
``I wouldn't do that.''
  When then-Candidate Trump was asked if he thought Colorado should be 
allowed to do what it is doing, he said: ``It's up to the States. 
Absolutely.''
  That was then-Candidate Trump's position. I would like to know from 
the Attorney General what has changed. What has changed President 
Trump's mind that the Cole memorandum would be reversed and rescinded? 
What has changed the President's mind? Why is Donald Trump thinking 
differently today about what he promised the people of Colorado in 2016 
to reverse course today? What changed? I would like to know that. I 
think the people of Colorado deserve to have that answer.
  Without the Cole memorandum, legal businesses, operating in 
accordance with States rights and laws, are now operating under a cloud 
of uncertainty. Thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in revenue 
are at risk, and certainly the question of constitutional States rights 
is very much at the core of this discussion. I believe what happened 
today was a trampling of Colorado's rights and its voters. Sure, this 
was a heavily debated issue, something I have already said I opposed, 
but the people of Colorado spoke, and they spoke loudly, and I believe 
that if the same question were asked today, they would even have more 
support for the decision they made several years ago.
  I agree with President Trump that this decision should be left up to 
the people of Colorado and other States, and I call on Attorney General 
Jeff Sessions to explain to me why President Trump was wrong in 2016, 
what changed their minds, and that they reverse their decision to 
withdraw and rescind the Cole memorandum and that they reimplement and 
reinstate the Cole memorandum. Until that happens, I think I am 
obligated to the people of Colorado to take all steps necessary to 
protect the State of Colorado and their rights.
  That is why today I will be putting a hold on every single nomination 
from the Department of Justice until Attorney General Jeff Sessions 
lives up to the commitment he made to me in my preconfirmation meeting 
with him--the conversation we had that was specifically about this 
issue of States rights in Colorado. Until he lives up to that 
commitment, I will be holding all nominations to the Department of 
Justice.
  The people of Colorado deserve answers. The people of Colorado 
deserve their will to be respected.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that I be 
recognized for as much time as I need to complete my remarks.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                         Funding the Government

  Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, despite Donald Trump's assertion last 
May that ``our country needs a good shutdown,'' the truth is, shutting 
down the government is a serious and dangerous action that we must do 
everything possible to prevent.
  Shutting down the government would impact tens of millions of our 
fellow Americans who would be unable to access government services. It 
would severely impact Federal employees who would not get the paychecks 
they expected. It would also have a very significant impact on our 
Armed Forces. In other words, we must do everything we can to prevent a 
government shutdown, which is exactly what will happen if a budget 
agreement is not reached by January 19, when the short-term continuing 
resolution expires.
  I am very disappointed, therefore, that the Republican Party, which 
controls the White House, the U.S. House, and the U.S. Senate, is 
pushing us closer and closer to a very dangerous government shutdown. 
The Republican leadership in Congress and the White House must not 
allow this shutdown to take place. They have to compromise. They cannot 
get it all.
  As everyone knows, in 2011, Congress passed the Budget Control Act. 
The centerpiece of that bipartisan legislation was that there would be 
parity in defense and nondefense spending. That agreement continued in 
the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 
2013, and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. All of these bills 
provided equal amounts of funding for defense and nondefense purposes. 
Any future effort to increase the Budget Control Act caps must continue 
to

[[Page S34]]

adhere to this principle of parity. In other words, we have had a 
bipartisan agreement now for 6 years that has continued on four 
separate budgets. But now, threatening us with a government shutdown, 
the Republicans want to break that agreement.
  I was very disturbed to hear Senate Majority Leader McConnell on the 
floor yesterday say:

       Since fiscal year 2013, defense cuts have outpaced domestic 
     spending cuts by $85 billion. To fix this, we need to set 
     aside the arbitrary notion that defense spending be matched 
     equally by new nondefense spending. There is no reason why 
     funding for our national security and our servicemembers 
     should be limited by an arbitrary political formula that 
     bears no relationship to actual need.

  That was Senator McConnell on the floor yesterday.
  Unfortunately, what Senator McConnell said was inaccurate and 
misleading. His statement conveniently ignored the fact that mandatory 
spending on domestic programs like Medicare have been severely cut over 
this time period. He also ignored the fact that during this period, the 
Defense Department has also received tens and tens of billions of 
dollars in funding through the Overseas Contingency Operations funding, 
which is not capped at all.
  If you include the Overseas Contingency Operations funding, the 
reality is that overall defense spending has gone up, not down, over 
this time period, while nondefense discretionary spending has been 
severely cut.
  Further, Senator McConnell ignores a very, very important reality; 
that is, nondefense discretionary spending as a percentage of GDP is 
now at a 40-year low. This longstanding agreement regarding parity for 
defense and nondefense spending is not some kind of inside-the-beltway, 
esoteric issue. It is an issue that will impact tens of millions of 
working families in this country who, today, are struggling to keep 
their heads above water.
  Over the last 40 years, while the middle class of our country has 
been shrinking, the people on top--the top 1 percent--have been doing 
phenomenally well. The actions of the Republican Congress in the last 
year have only made a bad situation, an unfair situation, even worse. 
In the United States today, some 28 million Americans have no health 
insurance. Yet, over the last year, the Republicans have attempted to 
throw an additional 32 million people off of the healthcare they have, 
including proposed cuts for Medicaid by up to $1 trillion over a 10-
year period.
  Tragically, the United States has the highest rate of childhood 
poverty of nearly any major country in the industrialized world. 
Instead of doing all that we can to end childhood poverty in this 
country, the Republicans have proposed to once again make a horrific 
situation even worse by cutting nutrition programs for children, 
cutting the WIC Program for low-income pregnant women, cutting the Head 
Start Program, after-school programs, and funding for public education.
  There are millions of senior citizens in this country who can barely 
make it, and I sometimes wonder how in God's Name they do make it on 
$12,000, $13,000, $14,000 a year in Social Security. How do you keep 
your house warm, how do you buy the food you need, how do you buy the 
prescription drugs you need to stay alive on $13,000 or $14,000 a year? 
There are millions of senior citizens in this country in that position. 
Yet, despite that reality, over the last year we have had to fight off 
one Republican effort after another to cut Social Security COLAs, to 
raise the retirement age, or to even privatize this life-or-death 
program.
  Further, the Republicans have proposed massive cuts to LIHEAP, the 
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which is keeping people warm 
in Vermont today when the weather goes below zero. All over this 
country, millions of people, often senior citizens, depend on this 
program. Yet President Trump, in his budget, proposes to wipe it out 
completely. Republican leaders are also proposing cuts to the Meals on 
Wheels program, senior housing programs, and Medicare.
  Today, in a highly competitive global economy, when we need to have 
the best educated workforce in the world, when the new jobs that are 
being created require a higher education, hundreds of thousands of 
bright young students desperately want to get a college education, but 
they are unable to do so because their families lack the income. But 
Republicans, incredibly, want to make that situation even worse by 
proposing massive cuts in the budget they recently passed to Pell 
grants--the major source of funding to help low-income young people get 
a college education--and other financial assistance programs for 
college. In my view, we should be making public colleges and 
universities tuition-free. Republicans today are proposing to make it 
harder for our young people to get the higher education they need.

  During this budget process, when the Republicans want to expand 
military spending by some $100 billion--$100 billion--over the next 2 
years, by far the largest increase in military spending in American 
history, we will not turn our backs on working families, the elderly, 
the children, the sick, and the poor. The U.S. Government must do more 
than greatly expand military spending and give tax breaks to 
billionaires. Our job is to protect the working families of this 
country, and that is what the new budget must do. That means we must 
have parity between defense and nondefense spending. That is why this 
budget--the proposed budget--that we are working on now must address 
the many crises facing the working families of the United States. That 
is what the American people want, and that is what we must deliver. 
Among many other things that must be included in the new budget that we 
are working on is full funding for community health centers, which 
provides primary healthcare, dental care, mental health counseling, and 
low-cost prescription drugs to some 27 million Americans in every State 
in our country. It has been more than 3 months since funding for 
community health centers has lapsed. Our Nation's 1,400 community 
health centers in roughly 10,000 communities throughout this country 
are deeply worried right now as to when they will get the funding they 
need.
  I just spoke to the leadership of community health centers in Vermont 
the other day. They have had a longstanding problem--as have community 
health centers all across this country--in retention and attracting new 
doctors and nurses into their programs. What we are seeing now is a 
situation where many people who might want to work at a community 
health center are saying: Why would I want to go there when the 
Republicans are delaying funding for this vitally important program?
  If we do not act soon, 70 percent of the funding for community health 
centers will be cut and 2,800 health centers will close their doors. 
Community health centers must be funded at the levels contained in the 
bipartisan legislation introduced earlier this year. I congratulate 
Senator Blunt and Senator Stabenow for their bipartisan work on this 
issue, and there are a number of other Republicans who are cosponsoring 
that legislation. We could pass it tomorrow if it were on the floor of 
the Senate. Let us do that.
  The offsets to the prevention program of the Affordable Care Act that 
were included in the December 21 agreement are unacceptable, and they 
must not be repeated. The Blunt-Stabenow bill has nine Republican 
cosponsors. This bill represents a modest 5-percent increase in funding 
at a cost of just $2 billion over 5 years--the very least we can do to 
address the major crisis of primary healthcare in America, especially 
in rural America.
  As you know, Federal funding for the Children's Health Insurance 
Program expired on September 30, 2017. If the CHIP program is not 
reauthorized, 9 million children in working families will lose their 
health insurance. Can you imagine that we have a Congress prepared and 
acting to give tax breaks to the richest people in this country, but 
somehow or another they have not gotten around to reauthorize and re-
fund the Children's Health Insurance Program? That must be done 
immediately and, once again, without regressive offsets which take 
money from other health insurance programs.

  We must keep our promises on pensions. If Congress does not act soon, 
the earned pension benefits of more than 1.5 million workers and 
retirees in multi-employer pension plans could be cut by up to 60 
percent. We must not rescind the promise we made to 1.5 million 
workers.

[[Page S35]]

  We must expand Social Security services for seniors. Since 2010, 
Congress has cut Social Security's operating budget by 16 percent, and 
Republicans want to cut it another 4 percent this year. These budget 
cuts have resulted in the loss of more than 10,000 employees, the 
closing of 64 field offices, and reduced hours in many others. In 
Vermont, one field office has seen its staffing cut by 30 percent. 
According to a recent Washington Post article, 10,000 people died in 
the past year while they waited for decisions on Social Security 
disability benefits. We need to increase the funding for these vital 
services by at least $1.4 billion just to bring staffing back up to 
where it was in 2010.
  We need to keep our promises to our veterans, the men and women who 
put their lives on the line to defend our country. Right now, we have 
tens of thousands of vacancies in the VA. Those vacancies must be 
filled. Veterans must be able to get high-quality, timely healthcare.
  We must fight the opioid and heroin epidemic that is sweeping this 
country. All over America, we are seeing tens of thousands of people, 
often young people, overdosing on opioids and heroin. States and 
communities all over this country need the resources for prevention and 
treatment. That is an issue that cannot be delayed. It has to be dealt 
with now.
  Everybody knows that in the last several months, we have seen 
disastrous hurricanes impact Texas and Florida and Puerto Rico and the 
Virgin Islands. In Puerto Rico today, there continue to be many people 
who still do not have electricity. We must pass disaster relief right 
now that is adequate and that treats Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands 
just as we will treat Texas and Florida. We cannot continue to delay 
given the enormous suffering that is existing in Puerto Rico and in the 
Virgin Islands.
  Very briefly, let me touch on another issue of enormous consequence 
which simply cannot be ignored. On September 5, 2017, President Trump 
announced that he would be rescinding President Obama's Executive order 
on DACA. That decision means that some 800,000 young people who have 
known the United States of America as their only home--this is where 
they grew up; this is where they went to school--are on the verge of 
losing their legal status in terms of education, in terms of 
employment, and in terms of serving in the military if that program is 
not reestablished. Without the legal protections afforded by the DACA 
Program, these young people live in a constant fear of being deported. 
Since the President's announcement in September, more than 11,000 
people have lost the protections under DACA, with there being 
approximately 22,000 set to lose their legal protections by the March 
5, 2018, deadline.
  Any spending agreement must address the fear and uncertainty that has 
been unnecessarily caused by the administration's reckless actions, and 
a clean Dream Act must be signed into law as part of the budget 
negotiations. Protecting the Dreamers and moving these young people 
toward citizenship is not some kind of wild and radical idea; it is 
precisely what the American people want. A recent Quinnipiac poll 
showed that 77 percent of the American people support providing legal 
protections to the Dreamers. This is an issue that must be dealt with, 
and it must be dealt with now.
  When history looks back on this period, I do not want it to see a 
U.S. Congress that worked overtime to protect billionaires and large 
corporations and a Congress that turned its back on working families 
and the children and the sick and the poor. I do not want history to 
look back on this period and say that Members of Congress thought it 
appropriate to spend $100 billion more on the military but were not 
concerned about veterans who did not get the healthcare they needed or 
some 800,000 young people who are now frightened that they will lose 
their legal status.
  As the U.S. Senate, we must get our priorities right, and we need a 
budget that deals not only with military spending but with the needs of 
the middle class and working families of this country.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



