

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S1765]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself and Ms. Cortez Masto):
       S. 2556. A bill to direct the Administrator of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration to promulgate regulations to prohibit 
     the storage of live animals in overhead compartments of 
     airplanes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Grassley, 
             and Mr. Casey):
       S. 2557. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     improve conservation programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. COCHRAN (for himself and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 2558. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     transfer to Scenic Rivers Development Alliance certain 
     National Forest System land in the State of Mississippi; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Corker, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Hatch, Ms. Harris, and Mr. 
             Leahy):
       S. 2559. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     implement the Marrakesh Treaty, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RISCH:
       S. 2560. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to establish a program to facilitate the transfer to non-
     Federal ownership of appropriate reclamation projects or 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2561. A bill to authorize the Attorney General to 
     suspend a controlled substances registration if there is a 
     likelihood of a threat of diversion of a controlled 
     substance, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 2562. A bill to posthumously award a Congressional Gold 
     Medal to Alice Paul in recognition of her role in the women's 
     suffrage movement and in advancing equal rights for women; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. McCain, Mr. Gardner, and 
             Mr. Barrasso):
       S. 2563. A bill to improve the water supply and drought 
     resilience of the United States, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, and Mr. 
             Grassley):
       S. 2564. A bill to amend title 11, United States Code, to 
     promote the investigation of fraudulent claims against 
     certain trusts, to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide penalties against fraudulent claims against certain 
     trusts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Hassan, Ms. Smith, and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 2565. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide child 
     care assistance to veterans receiving certain training or 
     vocational rehabilitation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 2566. A bill to require that any trade agreement 
     eligible for expedited consideration by Congress include 
     enforceable standards requiring paying adequate wages and 
     maintaining sustainable production methods, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



