

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 11 (Thursday, January 18, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H485]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    HOPE FOR TERMINALLY ILL PATIENTS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Brooks) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, roughly 4 years ago, Steve 
Mayfield was a respected high school football coach at Central High 
School in Lauderdale County, Alabama, who, in October 2014, was 
diagnosed with ALS.
  Steve Mayfield bravely fought his terminal disease and kept a smile 
on his face throughout his lengthy 3-year battle and ordeal.
  In a land of freedom and liberty, Steve Mayfield would have had two 
choices. On the one hand, he could abide by Food and Drug 
Administration regulations and recommendations and die; or on the other 
hand, Steve Mayfield could try experimental treatments that gave some 
hope of beating ALS and extending Steve Mayfield's life.
  Unfortunately, when it comes to terminal illnesses in America, there 
is no freedom or liberty. Steve Mayfield not only had to fight ALS, he 
also had to fight the Food and Drug Administration before he could try 
experimental but potentially lifesaving treatments.
  Sadly, Steve Mayfield lost both fights. Steve Mayfield was barred by 
the Federal Government from trying possibly lifesaving treatments and, 
not long ago, passed away. Steve Mayfield's son, Brooks Mayfield, from 
Florence, Alabama, was with his father when he passed away.
  It is in that vein, Mr. Speaker, that I call on the House to have a 
floor vote on Senate bill S. 204, the Right to Try Act, which passed 
the Senate last year, that restores the right of terminally ill 
patients to try experimental treatments that may save their lives. 
Brooks Mayfield's father might be alive today if the Right to Try Act 
had been the law of the land.
  Mr. Speaker, we must remember who we are as Americans. Our ancestors 
fought the Revolutionary War over liberty and freedom, yet, today in 
America, patients who are 100 percent certain to die are denied the 
freedom, the liberty, the right to decide for themselves whether to try 
experimental treatments that may save their lives. Every day in 
America, terminally ill patients and their families are told there are 
no options but death.
  By way of background, fewer than 3 percent of terminally ill patients 
in America have access to investigational treatments through clinical 
trials. While the Food and Drug Administration grants compassionate use 
waivers meant to allow terminal patients access to experimental drugs, 
only about 1,500 waivers were granted in 2016.
  What are other terminally ill Americans to do? Nothing? Just waste 
away and die without a fight?
  Patients shouldn't have to give up their liberty, their freedom, 
their fight against terminal illness merely because the Food and Drug 
Administration says so. Terminally ill patients shouldn't have to beg 
the FDA for a waiver, forcing patients to fight the Federal 
bureaucracy, when they are already fighting for their lives.
  The Right to Try Act gives terminally ill patients access to 
treatments that have successfully completed the FDA's phase one 
approval requirement but not yet completed the FDA's lengthy and 
complex full approval process that can take decades.
  Sadly, sometimes when treatments and drugs reach final approval, it 
is too late for too many patients and their families because the 
terminally ill patient has already died.
  Mr. Speaker, given the stark contrasts between life and death, 
between freedom and Federal dictates, between hope and hopelessness, 
the House should take up and pass the Right to Try Act, thereby giving 
a chance for life to terminally ill patients and their families.

  The United States Senate overwhelmingly passed Right to Try 
legislation last year. It is time for the House to do the same, thereby 
restoring freedom, liberty, and hope, and giving terminally ill 
patients across America a better chance to live.

                          ____________________



