

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 46 (Thursday, March 15, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1651-H1652]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr. Vela, Mrs. Torres, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             Aguilar, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Correa, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Sablan, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Costa, Ms. Norton, and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 5292. A bill to establish a task force to review new 
     decennial census questions and their impact on response rates 
     for minorities, the accuracy of the census, redistricting, 
     costs and funding distribution, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Goodlatte):
       H.R. 5293. A bill to make technical amendments to update 
     statutory references to certain provisions that were formerly 
     classified to title 50, Appendix, United States Code; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BARLETTA (for himself, Ms. Titus, and Mr. Rogers 
             of Kentucky):
       H.R. 5294. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     address the impact of drug abuse on economic development in 
     Appalachia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself and Mr. Goodlatte):
       H.R. 5295. A bill to make technical amendments to update 
     statutory references to provisions classified to chapters 44, 
     45, 46, and 47 of title 50, United States Code; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself and Mr. Goodlatte):
       H.R. 5296. A bill to make technical amendments to update 
     statutory references to certain provisions classified to 
     title 2, United States Code; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself and Mr. Goodlatte):
       H.R. 5297. A bill to make technical amendments to update 
     statutory references to certain provisions classified to 
     title 52, United States Code; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. Suozzi):
       H.R. 5298. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     deem drugs or other substances that act as opioid mu receptor 
     agonists to be in schedule I, subject to exceptions for 
     substances intended for legitimate medical or research use, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H.R. 5299. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     transfer to Scenic Rivers Development Alliance certain 
     National Forest System land in the State of Mississippi; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. PALMER:
       H.R. 5300. A bill to provide agencies with discretion in 
     securing information technology and information systems; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Turner, Mr. 
             Wittman, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Pearce, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Rosen, 
             Ms. Pingree, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Capuano, and Mrs. Roby):
       H.R. 5301. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from requiring a 
     surviving spouse of a veteran to return certain payments for 
     a month in which the veteran dies; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Norton, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Tonko, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, and Mr. Nadler):
       H.R. 5302. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to provide that an individual's entitlement to any 
     benefit thereunder shall continue through the month of his or 
     her death (without affecting any other person's entitlement 
     to benefits for that month) and that such individual's 
     benefit shall be payable for such month only to the extent 
     proportionate to the number of days in such month preceding 
     the date of such individual's death; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself, Mrs. Love, Mr. 
             Stewart, and Mr. Curtis):
       H.R. 5303. A bill to amend title 13, United States Code, to 
     provide for the more accurate and complete enumeration of 
     certain overseas Americans in the decennial census, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. RASKIN (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mrs. Lawrence, and Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 5304. A bill to prohibit Federal agencies from using 
     Government funds to pay for the lodging of agency employees 
     at establishments that are owned by or employ certain public 
     officials or their relatives; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Walker, Mr. Loudermilk, Ms. Lofgren, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 5305. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     ensure the availability of no-fee public access to government 
     information, to reform the Federal Depository Library 
     Program, to authorize the activities of the Superintendent of 
     Documents, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 5306. A bill to reauthorize the Money Follows the 
     Person Demonstration Program; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. KNIGHT:
       H.R. 5307. A bill to require that certain Federal education 
     funds be used for the improvement of security at elementary 
     and secondary schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself and Mr. Poliquin):
       H.R. 5308. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue 
     quarter dollars in commemoration of the Nineteenth Amendment, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Luetkemeyer, and Mr. Kelly of Mississippi):
       H.R. 5309. A bill to amend the Second Morrill Act to 
     authorize the transmission to Congress of annual reports 
     prepared by colleges endowed under such Act; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture.
           By Mr. BABIN (for himself, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Norman, 
             Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Sessions, 
             Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Perry, Mr. Sanford, and 
             Mr. Chabot):
       H.R. 5310. A bill to waive certain procurement provisions 
     for a project that receives funds from certain Federal 
     agencies; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, Agriculture, and Energy and Commerce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire, and Mr. MacArthur):
       H.R. 5311. A bill to reauthorize and expand the 
     Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Education and the Workforce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 5312. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to reauthorize the Federal work-study program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. 
             Labrador, Mr. Sanford, and Mr. Harris):
       H.R. 5313. A bill to provide for automatic continuing 
     appropriations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Appropriations, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Neal, 
             Mr. Peters, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Deutch, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Jones, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Heck, and 
             Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico):
       H.R. 5314. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for unlimited eligibility for health care for mental 
     illnesses for veterans of combat service during certain 
     periods of hostilities and war; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 5315. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration to promulgate regulations to 
     prohibit the storage of live animals in overhead compartments 
     of airplanes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FASO:
       H.R. 5316. A bill to authorize appropriations for the 
     seniors farmers' market nutrition program for fiscal years 
     2019 through 2023; to the Committee on Agriculture.

[[Page H1652]]

  

           By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER (for herself, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Young of Alaska, Mr. Heck, and Mr. Cole):
       H.R. 5317. A bill to repeal section 2141 of the Revised 
     Statutes to remove the prohibition on certain alcohol 
     manufacturing on Indian lands; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN:
       H.R. 5318. A bill to establish State infrastructure banks 
     for education; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. Hastings, and Mr. 
             Deutch):
       H.R. 5319. A bill to transfer Coast Guard property in the 
     Town of Jupiter Island, Florida, for inclusion in Hobe Sound 
     National Wildlife Refuge; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and Mrs. Bustos):
       H.R. 5320. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the Secretary of a military department from entering 
     into a lease of real property for the use of the department 
     unless the Secretary first certifies that facilities of real 
     property owned by the United States may not be reconfigured 
     to support the purpose of the proposed lease in an 
     appropriate and cost-effective manner, to require the 
     Secretary of the Defense to provide more accurate information 
     on the costs incurred in leasing real property for the use of 
     the Department of Defense, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. MOULTON (for himself, Mr. Meadows, and Mr. 
             Loebsack):
       H.R. 5321. A bill to improve communication from Federal 
     agencies to individuals by requiring clear instructions, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 5322. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for a national program to conduct and support 
     activities toward the goal of significantly reducing the 
     number of cases of overweight and obesity among individuals 
     in the United States; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. BARLETTA (for himself and Ms. Titus):
       H. Con. Res. 115. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of the Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers 
     Memorial Service and the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band 
     Exhibition; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CONAWAY:
       H. Res. 785. A resolution expressing support for continued 
     cooperation between Israel and the United States to ensure 
     adequate capabilities to counter Iran's destabilizing 
     activities and support shared interests, including stability 
     and safety in the Middle East, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Cole, Mr. Wilson of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Sires, and Mr. 
             Holding):
       H. Res. 786. A resolution condemning the chemical weapons 
     attack on Sergei Skripal, a former Russian intelligence 
     officer, and his daughter on March 4, 2018, and extending its 
     sympathies to those affected by the attack, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



