

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 47 (Monday, March 19, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1684-H1688]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     POSITIVE IMPACTS OF TAX REFORM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Ferguson) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share how the Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act is helping folks around the United States and throughout the 
Third District of Georgia.
  In fact, over 400 major companies across our great Nation have 
announced bonuses, pay raises, and new investments in their businesses 
and communities that will offer benefits to over 4 million Americans. I 
am thrilled that a number of great Georgia companies are included in 
this; such as, Columbus, Georgia-based, Aflac and Total Systems 
Services; as well as companies like Home Depot, Carl Black, Yancey 
Bros., Cox Enterprises, SunTrust, and United Parcel Service, just to 
name a few. These are all major companies in my home State of Georgia 
that are making investments in their people and their industries so 
that they can better serve their customers, and it is paying big 
dividends.
  It is always exciting to hear about these announcements from major 
employers around the State, but the benefits of tax reform are not just 
felt by employees at major corporations, they are being felt by the job 
creators here on Main Street and right here in Georgia's Third 
District. Two that I will highlight at some point tonight will be 
Shred-X in Griffin, Georgia, and Custom Truck and Body Works in 
Woodbury. Both of these businesses are expanding and hiring more 
workers, and this is a great story for the State of Georgia and the 
Third District. We are awfully proud of them.
  The positive impacts of tax reform have been felt by millions more 
Americans just this month as the updated withholding tables took 
effect. As employers implemented these tables, Americans across the 
country have seen these tax cuts reflected in bigger paychecks. This 
means keeping more of your hard-earned money to spend as you see fit. I 
have long said that Americans know how to spend their hard-earned money 
far better than the bureaucrats here in Washington. I look forward to 
seeing how our economy continues to improve.
  Mr. Speaker, our next speaker is my good friend Paul Mitchell. 
Representative Mitchell has become a dear friend and does a wonderful 
job of representing Michigan's 10th District. I want to thank him for 
setting up these Special Orders to tell the truth about tax reform and 
how it is helping Americans.
  In Mr. Mitchell's district, people who are making the median 
household income will see a tax cut of just over $1,500.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell).
  Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from West 
Point, Georgia, and I want to also thank the Georgia and Alabama 
delegations' Members who, as part of the Tax Truth Squad, have come 
here tonight to share examples of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act on their districts.
  The last major tax reform was conducted 31 years ago. I believe many 
people, many businesspeople and workers, had simply given up on the 
idea that we would actually achieve what we achieved at the end of last 
year. In less than three months since the tax reform bill passed, as my 
colleague said, more than 440 companies have given a pay raise, 
bonuses, increased 401(k) contributions, or, in the case of utility 
companies, lowered their rates dramatically. In Michigan, rates will be 
lowered this year by $400 million.
  This number of 440 doesn't even include small mom-and-pop businesses 
on Main Street. At least 4 million Americans are receiving special tax 
reform bonuses, announced already this year, in 3 months. The direct 
bonus announcements have already passed $4 billion. Small-business 
owners are showing unparalleled confidence in the economy as the 
optimism index reached record high numbers in February according to the 
NFIB Small Business Economic Trend Survey. Let me say that again: 
record high numbers, all as a result of what we achieved at the end of 
the year.
  This optimism in economic strength is reflected in data recently 
released. Last month, the United States economy created 313,000 new 
jobs.

                              {time}  1945

  More importantly, 800 million people reentered the labor force who 
weren't trying to go to work. The unemployment rate remained the same 
at 4.1 percent, what most people call full employment. Equally 
important, wage growth over last year increased 2.6 percent; 2.6 
percent already in terms of wage growth.
  These are good things for Americans, for wage earners; and, as my 
colleague said, even more importantly, a good thing because they keep 
money in the pockets of workers and families to make decisions on what 
to do with their hard-earned money rather than depend on those of us 
here, frankly, in Congress or, worse, bureaucrats, to spend it for 
them.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank all the Members of Georgia and Alabama as part 
of the Tax Truth Squad to put their stories forward tonight.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned before, one of the most 
important and recognizable companies in the Third District of Georgia 
is Aflac.
  Aflac was one of the first companies to announce benefits to its 
employees. Shortly after Christmas, Aflac announced that they would 
increase their investments by $250 million in the U.S., increase the 
company's 401(k) match for employees, and make a one-time contribution 
of $500 to each employee's account. This is a long-term investment in 
Aflac's employees and into the United States economy. Our new Tax Code 
helps companies like Aflac to reinvest in their workers and their 
communities.
  Mr. Speaker, my next speaker is Mr. Palmer, who represents the Sixth 
District of Alabama. Households earning the district's median income 
would see a tax break of $1,534.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. 
Palmer).
  Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Michigan for 
setting this up, and I thank the gentleman from Georgia for leading it.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the impact that the Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act is having in Alabama's Sixth Congressional District.
  Millions of Americans across the country are now reaping the benefits 
of tax reform in the form of higher paychecks, and my district is no 
exception. I would like to give just a few examples of how my 
constituents are using the additional money to benefit their families.
  One woman from Mountain Brook noted that her employer was paying out 
bonuses of $1,000 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and that she 
will deposit that money in her health savings account.
  Another woman from Trussville talked about how the savings would help 
with tuition payments for her two college-age daughters. The ability to 
help with tuition payments was a common theme among my constituents.

[[Page H1685]]

  Another gentleman from Birmingham noted that his family used their 
larger paychecks to help pay for college and have placed additional 
money in savings.
  A man from Hoover shared that he was able to make additional payments 
toward his mortgage principal, increase the amount he was contributing 
to his 401(k), and was able to take his wife out to dinner and a movie.
  It seems the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts may be having an additional 
benefit for marriages in a way we hadn't considered.
  Finally, another gentleman from my district noted, and I would like 
to quote him here: ``We now have an additional $250 a month thanks to 
the tax plan. We love the crumbs.''
  That was the same message I got from a lady in our church who 
received a $1,000 bonus from her company.
  These are just a few of the numerous examples of the individuals and 
families in my district that continue to benefit from the Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act. But the benefits don't stop there.
  Regions Bank, which is headquartered in Birmingham, recently 
announced that they would be making a range of investments as a result 
of the tax cuts, including raising the minimum hourly wage in their 
branches to $15 per hour, and that is without a government mandate. 
They are also contributing $40 million to the company's charitable 
foundation and increasing their capital expenditures budget by $100 
million in 2018.
  It is not just the big companies that are doing this. Smaller 
businesses are getting in on the act as well.
  One small business in my district, Wadsworth Oil, sent a note along 
with their employees' paycheck letting them know that, as a result of 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, they would be getting cumulatively $22,000 
in bonuses.
  Despite fierce opposition from those who wanted to maintain the 
broken status quo, Republicans in both Houses of Congress were able to 
deliver a significant win for the American people.
  Going forward, we must maintain this momentum and continue to enact 
policies that strengthen our economy, create jobs, and increase the pay 
and benefits for American workers.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, as I said early on, we are seeing 
tremendous growth in businesses both large and small. Previously I 
highlighted a great American company, Aflac, but an example of a small 
company that is seeing the benefits of tax reform is a company called 
Shred-X in Griffin, Georgia.
  Shred-X is a small business offering paper shredding and recycling 
services to approximately 3,000 clients throughout Atlanta and central 
Georgia, and they are using their tax savings to invest in their 
business. They are planning on buying a new truck and hiring a 
potential employee.
  Now, for a company like Shred-X, that is a true small business that 
employs ten people, the addition of one truck and another employee 
makes a big difference. Shred-X owner Cade Joiner told me: ``This is 
just one practical example of how tax reform is helping us here on Main 
Street.''
  It is really exciting to see our small-business owners really 
beginning to see the benefits of tax reform and beginning to see the 
benefits with their employees as well
  Mr. Speaker, my next guest is Mr. Buddy Carter. Representative Carter 
has been an outspoken advocate for the benefits of the Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act. He represents a district where the median household income in 
the First District of Georgia will see an average savings of $1,220.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Carter).
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding. I also thank him for his leadership in this area and for 
putting this together tonight. This is an important message that all 
Americans should hear and that all Americans will share in.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the benefits already 
impacting the First Congressional District of Georgia since the Tax 
Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law.
  A few weeks ago, I traveled the district and visited with businesses, 
with students, and with senior citizens to discuss how tax reform is 
helping them.
  Nine Line Apparel, a business in Savannah, told me that the Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act allows them to give more to their employees, a small 
difference helping their employees to take vacations, buy Christmas 
presents for their children, and make it easier to provide for their 
families.
  Lee Container Company in Homerville, which I visited a couple of 
weeks ago, said the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will enable them to purchase 
more equipment and grow their business.
  I also had the opportunity, Mr. Speaker, to visit with students at 
Savannah State University. I shared my excitement that, for upcoming 
graduates, job creation from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will generate 
high demand for employees, increasing wages and making the job search 
easier than it has been in years past. Needless to say, they were 
excited to hear this good news.
  Mr. Speaker, the results from my trips around the district were 
encouraging, and I am proud we could pass tax reform benefiting all 
income levels, American businesses, and our whole economy.
  Mr. Speaker, this legislation will truly go down as some of the most 
significant tax reform this country has ever seen. It is certainly the 
most significant tax reform in the last 30 years.
  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will put money in people's pockets, will 
stimulate our economy, will create jobs. It is good for our economy and 
good for our country.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, as we go through tonight and begin to 
highlight some of the benefits of tax reform, we have talked a lot 
about a large business such as Aflac, a small business such as Shred-X, 
but this is having an effect on individual families as well.
  I have heard from people all over Georgia's Third District who are 
telling me that it is having an impact in their paychecks, and that is 
helping their families.
  Robert from Thomaston wrote in to my office to say that he had 
checked his check, and he had more money in his retiree account 
statement on his military pension because of tax reform, and this is 
helping him meet his monthly financial goals.
  Erin from LaGrange told me that she has $132 more in each paycheck. 
She said, while it may not seem like a lot to some, it is her money and 
every little bit helps.
  These are just two of the millions of Americans who are seeing larger 
paychecks because of comprehensive tax reform.
  Mr. Speaker, if anyone is not sure if tax reform is helping them, I 
want to encourage them to check their check, see how much more money 
they are saving each and every month.
  Mr. Speaker, my next guest is the distinguished gentleman from 
Georgia's 12th District, Mr. Rick Allen. Mr. Allen represents a very 
broad swath of the eastern part of our State. The median income family 
in his district will receive a tax savings of $875 a year thanks to the 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Augusta, Georgia 
(Mr. Allen).
  Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I think the gentleman for doing this tonight 
and for giving me the opportunity just to give you some news from the 
other side of the State.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the significant impact that 
comprehensive tax reform has had on Georgia's 12th District.
  As a businessman, I bring a different perspective to the Halls of 
Congress. During my tenure in Congress, I have been focused on three 
goals: grow the economy, get folks back to work, and reduce the size 
and scope of the Federal Government.
  Like me, President Trump is a businessman; and under his leadership, 
we are getting our economy back on track. Nothing can compare to the 
effect that tax reform is having on jump-starting our economy and 
expanding small businesses and creating jobs.
  Over the past few months, I have had the opportunity to meet with 
several small businesses as I have traveled across Georgia 12 to 
discuss how tax reform is making real changes for them and their 
employees.
  I would like to share the story of Georgia Tire Company, a 72-year-
old business located in Vidalia, Georgia.
  In 1946, two brothers, after World War II, decided to buy a small gas 
station.

[[Page H1686]]

One of their sons, Rusty, began working alongside his father and uncle 
during the summer of 1965, and then began working full time at the 
family business in 1972, with a third generation of workers not far 
behind. Now they are known as a reputable business selling tires across 
the district and providing automotive repairs in Toombs County.
  The Moses family has built their business through hard work; treating 
customers fairly; a little bit of luck; and, most importantly, through 
their employees, who are treated like part of their family.
  When I had the opportunity to speak with Rusty Moses about the 
success of his family business, he told me that his employees are 
hardworking, honest, law-abiding people, but high taxes and complex 
laws continued to stifle their income. Mr. Moses promised his employees 
that if the tax laws were changed, they would share in the business tax 
savings through performance bonuses and salary increases. Thanks to tax 
reform, this promise has become a reality.

  Georgia Tire Company has seen an increase in take-home pay, and it 
plans to issue employee bonuses at the end of this fiscal year.
  There are so many family businesses like Georgia Tire Company that 
are truly the lifeblood of our communities. Before tax reform, these 
businesses were struggling to make ends meet and unable to provide 
their employees with well-earned benefits.
  Don't just take my word for it. There are more than 4 million 
Americans who have already seen the positive impacts of tax reform, 
just like at this tire company.
  With Congress and the President working hand-in-hand, we have made 
great strides. I can't tell you how happy I am to see our local 
businesses thriving in the new American economy, growing this economy, 
and giving all Americans the opportunity to have a good job.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank my fellow colleagues and President Trump for 
their support of comprehensive tax reform for all Americans.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia for 
those great words.
  As I mentioned earlier, another great company in the Third District 
of Georgia is a company called Total System Services, as we refer to 
it, TSYS.
  Right in Columbus, Georgia, TSYS is a major credit card processor and 
employs thousands of people in our area. Because of tax reform, they 
were able to give their employees a bonus, and, just as importantly, 
they have been able to invest in their business to grow at a more 
profitable rate and continue to return the benefits to the community.
  I have heard a lot of folks talk about tax reform being just crumbs, 
but to middle class Americans in my district, if you talk about crumbs, 
it is not about tax reform.
  Tax reform is making a difference in middle American lives every 
single day. It is helping families make their ends meet--they are going 
on the vacation that they have worked so hard for--or to invest in 
their home.
  These tax cuts are making a difference. Companies like TSYS, that are 
returning these benefits to their employees and making investments in 
their business, are continuing to do their part to make this Nation the 
most competitive place in the world to do business.
  Mr. Speaker, I now call on my colleague from Georgia, Representative 
Loudermilk. Representative Loudermilk represents Georgia's 11th 
District. The median household income in his district will see an 
average savings of $1,780.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Loudermilk).

                              {time}  2000

  Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Speaker, I especially thank my good colleague and 
friend from West Point, Georgia, for managing this hour so that we can 
share, really, the excitement that we are seeing back home for what 
adding a little bit of money in the people's paycheck is doing.
  Mr. Speaker, I have often contemplated what transformed America from 
an enthusiastic ragtag rabble that had this idea of freedom into the 
strongest economy, the freest Nation, and the strongest military in the 
entire world?
  The reality of that is the freedom that this government and the 
rights that were given by God that we protect has given to the American 
people. When you think about the innovation that has come from America, 
innovation that has changed the face of the world, most of it came from 
here because of the freedom that we have.
  Now, if you go right down the road here to the Smithsonian's Air and 
Space Museum, you will see a testament to that freedom in that building 
where two bicycle mechanics from Ohio were able to accomplish to what, 
for centuries, scientists and engineers couldn't accomplish, because 
they had the freedom.
  We have taught our children in this Nation to dream big. In America, 
you can accomplish anything that you want to dream. But in the past 
couple of decades, we have squelched the dreams of these kids because, 
as we have put out the fire that we tell them they can have in America, 
we are quenching that fire with wet blankets of bureaucracy and 
obstacles.
  But I want to share with you a story from back home. It was a letter 
I received from a young man, a 14-year-old, thanking me for the tax 
reform bill, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which put more money in the 
back pocket of his parents.
  You see, he had a dream. He dreamed of being a pilot. He wanted to be 
a pilot. But I can tell you, as a pilot myself, that is a difficult 
thing to accomplish. Not only is the training difficult, but it can be 
very expensive.
  But he wrote me this letter thanking me. Because of the bonus that 
his dad received from his company because of the corporate tax cut, and 
the money that they are going to save because of the individual tax 
cuts, his parents are using that money to ensure that he gets flight 
lessons at 14 years old. He is accomplishing a dream because we removed 
government out of the way.
  And one thing, quite frankly, is we need airline pilots. Up here, we 
start looking at what government programs we can put in or incentives 
to get people to fly, when all we have got to do is get out of the way 
and let our children, once again, dream big. That is all that we are 
doing, is getting us out of way.
  When you look at Georgia, the results have been astounding. Even Home 
Depot, which is headquartered in my district, is investing $50 million 
to train 20,000 tradespeople to fill the gap.
  With this closing, Mr. Speaker, let me bring up that the number of 
jobs that we have available in this Nation is about equivalent to the 
number of people we have unemployed. We need to continue to get out of 
the way.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia's 11th 
District. The gentleman is right, if we get the Federal Government out 
of the way, great things happen.
  As I mentioned earlier, another small company that is now doing big 
things as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is Custom Truck & Body 
Works in Woodbury, Georgia. This small company creates specialty 
vehicles for first responders. They had been hoping to grow their 
business, but they felt hampered by a burdensome Tax Code. After tax 
reform passed, they were finally able to move on with a building 
expansion, able to hire new workers, and give their current employees 
additional benefits.
  I got to see the impact on this business firsthand on a recent visit 
to their facility in Woodbury, Georgia. Everyone was excited about the 
company's growth, and it really brought home, for me, the difference 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was already making in the Third District of 
Georgia.
  Next is my colleague from Alabama, Congressman  Mike Rogers. 
Congressman Rogers represents Alabama's Third District. We are 
neighbors along the Georgia- Alabama line, and the median family 
household in his district will see a tax cut of almost $1,000.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Rogers).
  Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague 
from Georgia for leading this Special Order.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to highlight the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act is having in east Alabama and across America.
  After working under an outdated Tax Code for over 30 years, 
businesses and

[[Page H1687]]

families from the Third District of Alabama and the entire country are 
feeling some relief. From bigger paychecks to bonuses and raises, many 
companies in the U.S. have already distributed over $4 billion in 
bonuses.
  In my district, Russell Lands in Alexander City distributed $500 
bonuses to each of their 500 employees as a direct result of the tax 
overhaul.
  Three companies in Columbus, Georgia, which is right across the State 
line from my district, have already rewarded their employees because of 
tax reform, including, as you have heard earlier, Aflac, Synovus 
Financial, and Total System Services. This is putting more money back 
in the pockets of some of my constituents right across the State line 
in Russell County.
  Regions Bank and Protective Life in Birmingham, Alabama; Cogent 
Building Group in Point Clear, Alabama; Overseas Hardwoods in Stockton, 
Alabama; and DTI and Xante in Mobile are other companies across our 
great State that have been giving bonuses to their employees.
  I am proud of Ben Russell of Russell Lands and the other companies I 
mentioned leading the way on this important front.
  Because of the tax reform, over 4 million workers have already 
received a bonus or a pay increase across our great country. These 
bigger paychecks and bonuses can help families save for their kids' 
school or help pay for a new household appliance. It helps with making 
a car payment or paying off student debt.

  This extra money represents opportunity. At a time when every penny 
counts, I am proud to see tax reform is giving hardworking Americans 
more money to take home to their families.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Alabama for his 
remarks and for taking the opportunity to share some of the great 
things that are happening just across the State line to our neighbors.
  Mr. Speaker, one of the reasons that tax reform was so important to 
me, and one of the things that I campaigned so hard for is growing up 
in a community where we lost our manufacturing backbone, where we lost 
our job base.
  We saw families just begin to lose everything. They began to lose 
their homes, their cars, their small family businesses. We saw a 
generation move away from our communities to look for better 
opportunities because the jobs simply weren't there.
  I know that every single job is important. So every time that we are 
able to do something in this great Nation to create the environment, 
where this is the best place on the planet to do business, and we can 
grow jobs, it is good for our communities; it is good for our friends; 
it is good for our families; it is good for our neighbors. It makes our 
community stronger.
  One of the things about tax reform that is so important to remember 
is not simply about lowering the rates, but it is about helping 
American families, because now companies are now making decisions based 
on their employees and what is best for their bottom line, not arcane 
provisions that exist in the Tax Code.
  So every time that I hear someone from the other side say, ``All we 
did was give a tax break,'' I think it is being disingenuous. I think, 
quite candidly, it shows a lack of willingness to dig down into what 
this tax reform is really about; and that is changing how American 
companies operate so they can be very competitive on the world stage, 
so that they can make this place the greatest place in the world to do 
business and hire more of our friends and our family members, your 
neighbors, in the best-paying jobs on the planet.
  Mr. Speaker, it is my distinct honor to call on my colleague from 
Georgia's Seventh District, Congressman  Rob Woodall. Congressman 
Woodall is on the Budget Committee, on the Transportation and 
Infrastructure Committee, and on the Rules Committee. I thank 
Congressman Woodall for his leadership on those committees. I thank the 
gentleman for the opportunity that he has spent with me as a freshman 
guiding me along the way. I know that the folks back home truly 
appreciate his efforts, because, as a result of tax reform, families 
making the median income in his district receive a $1,866 increase in 
their paychecks as a result.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Georgia's Seventh District 
(Mr. Woodall).
  Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, you know that he may call himself a freshman, but Mr. 
Ferguson--Dr. Ferguson has made his weight felt around here since day 
one. He ran on a commonsense platform that said: Dadgummit, let's just 
go and get something done. Let's go and make a difference. Let's stop 
fussing about it. Let's start doing something about it.
  He has developed a reputation as a doer, and I am proud to serve with 
him. I appreciate him putting together this opportunity tonight.
  Mr. Speaker, we talk about tax reform as if it is a line item 
somewhere. The truth is that it is a feeling. It is a collective sigh 
of relief that has gone on in every single congressional district 
represented here.
  We have all gotten those calls. I got one just the other day, Mr. 
Speaker, from a father whose adult daughter had fallen on hard times 
and has a tough time making the bills work. As someone who had been 
strapped for the last, 6, 7, 8 years, he was trying to figure out how 
he was going to help his daughter make the bill balance when he wound 
up with $1,000 bonus from one of our local employers. It came at 
exactly the right time to make a difference in his family's life.
  It is that collective sigh of relief that better days are coming 
tomorrow than we had yesterday. I have heard it from the biggest 
companies in the district and I have heard it from the smallest 
companies in the district.
  The Home Depot is a proud Georgia company. My friend, Mr. Loudermilk 
mentioned it is headquartered in his district. We have got about seven 
stores in my district and a distribution facility in our district. Mr. 
Speaker, $1,000 bonuses from The Home Depot went not to their upper-
level management employees, but to their rank-and-file hourly employees 
at the store. That is real money in somebody's pocket back home. Now, 
that's just the kind of company that Home Depot is.
  We remember that during the economic crisis, when folks were cutting 
back on everything to try to make the books balance. They kept that 
program going on Saturday mornings, where you could come out with your 
kids, where you could build a birdhouse together, where you could build 
a train together, where you could come together as a family. Even when 
you didn't have enough dollars to go to a ball game, you could come to 
your local Home Depot and be present with your children. That is the 
kind of company they are.
  Same thing with UPS. My friend from Georgia knows, UPS has a proud 
tradition. We won them over from Connecticut. Years ago, Oz Nelson made 
that decision. Folks in UPS brown, 1,700 employees in my district, are 
getting bonuses because UPS now has more money to go around.
  Now, all the money didn't go into bonuses. Let's be clear, it didn't. 
UPS put $5 billion in their pension fund.
  Mr. Speaker, how many times have we talked about pension funds being 
underfunded in this country and wanting somebody to do something about 
it?
  UPS got some extra dollars and they put those dollars in the pension 
fund for their employees.
  They announced last month, Mr. Speaker, 14 additional 747 purchases. 
Now, Boeing is not headquartered in my district, but if you live in 
Washington State or you live in South Carolina, the news that 14 more 
planes are going to be purchased means something to those families, to 
those suppliers, to those subcontractors.
  Four new 767s being purchased as a result of extra money that wasn't 
coming to the Federal Government that is, instead, being reinvested.
  My friend from Georgia said it best: companies are now, for the first 
time in a long time, making decisions based on what is best for them, 
for their customers, for their employees, and for their communities.
  Mr. Speaker, we can argue about what kind of public policy we should 
have, but can't we agree that one where we are prioritizing people and 
communities first is one that we can all be proud of?

[[Page H1688]]

  I was pleased to support the bill. I am pleased to be down here with 
my friend from Georgia tonight talking about the impacts. I am grateful 
both to the Chair, Mr. Speaker, and to my friend from Georgia, for your 
leadership on this tax reform issue, for making it possible.
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia's 
Seventh District for his remarks. Well said.
  Mr. Speaker, as I close out tonight, I first want to thank all of my 
colleagues who joined us here tonight to share some of the amazing 
stories from their districts and their States about what is happening 
as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. It is clear that this is 
having a real impact. The benefits are clearly more than just crumbs. 
They are meaningful to every single family.
  I think one of the things that I see--and I am beginning to see more 
and more of--is not just simply that an employee is getting a bigger 
paycheck, which is great, but that enthusiasm that they have; because 
not only are they being rewarded for the job well done, but they are 
now seeing new opportunities because of growing businesses that they 
never had before.
  It is exciting and it is wonderful to see our friends, our family, 
and our neighbors, the people who we care about, who we represent, 
being affected in a positive way. As our economy grows and as we do 
things here to put more and more back into our communities in the forms 
of people's freedoms for them to make livings and to raise their 
children and to do with their family what they feel like is best, I see 
a bright future for this Nation.
  Just looking right now, 4 million people just recently receiving 
bonuses on top of their tax cuts, it has been a huge impact. It is 
making a difference. This is a promise that was made and it is a 
promise that has been kept.

                              {time}  2015

  And because of our growing economy, we will have a chance to keep our 
other promises: our promise to defend this Nation against foreign 
invaders, our promise to make sure that our important safety nets are 
there in the future, making sure that we can keep every promise made to 
our seniors in terms of Social Security and Medicare, making sure that 
we can keep our promises to the men and women of the armed services who 
were willing to die for our freedoms.
  We can keep our promises to our children to make this Nation a 
wonderful and great place for them because we are beginning to have the 
resources that we need to tackle one of the most important challenges 
that we will ever face, and that is the $21 trillion in debt that we 
have burdened future generations with. A growing economy gives us the 
resources to do just that, and I cannot wait to see what this future 
looks like because I know that it is strong, I know that it is bright, 
and I know that it is right because we will be able to keep our 
promises.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



