

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 8 (Friday, January 12, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 8 (Friday, January 12, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H172-H173]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. HUIZENGA (for himself and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 4785. A bill to prohibit the consolidated audit trail 
     from accepting personally identifying information, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
             Ellison, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Suozzi, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Evans, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Blumenauer, and Ms. Kelly of Illinois):
       H.R. 4786. A bill to require State and local law 
     enforcement agencies to promptly report the loss or theft of 
     any firearm to the National Tracing Center, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan:
       H.R. 4787. A bill to impose additional requirements on 
     portions of petroleum pipelines that cross the waters of the 
     Great Lakes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ENGEL:
       H.R. 4788. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish a pilot program to award grants and loan guarantees 
     to hospitals to carry out projects for the purpose of 
     reducing energy costs and increasing resilience to improve 
     security; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. Lance):
       H.R. 4789. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the limitation on the deduction for certain 
     taxes, including state and local property and income taxes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HILL:
       H.R. 4790. A bill to amend the Volcker rule to give the 
     Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System sole 
     rulemaking authority, to exclude community banks from the 
     requirements of the Volcker rule, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
       H.R. 4791. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     establish requirements for salaries, financial disclosures, 
     and office staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
     Reserve System, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 4792. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to expand access to capital for small businesses 
     affected by hurricanes or other natural disasters, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, 
             Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Bordallo, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Mr. Courtney, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. 
             Gallagher, Mr. Jones, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Latta, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Yarmuth, and Mr. LaHood):
       H. Res. 692. A resolution supporting the contributions of 
     Catholic schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.

[[Page H173]]

  

                          ____________________



