

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 20 (Tuesday, January 30, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H683-H684]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       THE VITAL ROLE OF MENTORS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Costa) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the vital role 
that mentors play in the lives of young people every day. Mentors 
provide our young people with guidance and support at a time when they 
begin to make important decisions that will affect their lives forever.
  Mentoring programs have demonstrated positive impacts on youth across 
the country. Young people who meet regularly with their mentors are 46 
percent less likely to use illegal drugs. Young people who are at risk 
for dropping out of high school but who had mentors are 55 percent more 
likely to enroll in college and 78 percent more likely to begin 
volunteering regularly in their own communities.
  We have great mentoring programs in our San Joaquin Valley that I 
have the honor and privilege to represent filled with individuals 
dedicated to providing support and guidance to youth. Some of the 
critical programs include, but are not limited to, Big Brothers Big 
Sisters of Central California, Focus Forward, and Care Fresno.
  When I was a senior at Fresno State, just a few years ago, I was a 
mentor in the Big Brother program. And let me tell you, my little 
brother, Phillip Yancey, I still remember to this day. I thought I was 
doing a good thing by giving some of my time, but I will tell you that 
I gained much more in appreciation for the challenges that this young 
man had. For the 18 months I was his mentor, I hope I made a 
difference; but, clearly, I know that Phillip made a difference in my 
life. So, it is a two-way street. Mentoring is not just helping those 
young people in our communities, but, I will tell you, it is a 
rewarding experience.
  Sadly, still, there are an estimated 9 million young people 
throughout the United States who do not have mentors or positive adult 
role models as a part of their lives outside of their home. That is why 
I join with many of my colleagues in cosponsoring the resolution to 
make January National Mentoring Month. We need to raise awareness of 
the significant roles that mentors play in the lives of young people 
across the United States, and we need to promote the creation and 
expansion of quality mentoring programs.
  Lastly, I want to take a moment to thank out there all who have 
participated in various types of mentoring programs across this great 
country of ours. You are making a difference.


                       Honoring Theresa DiMaggio

  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Ms. Theresa 
DiMaggio as the Heroine of the Month for California's 16th 
Congressional District.
  Theresa is a fierce advocate for veterans. She has dedicated her 
career to ensuring that veterans receive only the best care and 
treatment.
  Why? She is a veteran herself. For over 11 years she has worked in 
the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, including the VA 
medical facility in Fresno, California, which serves veterans in my 
district, an important hospital. Here, I had the pleasure to work with 
Theresa to make sure that our San Joaquin Valley veterans and their 
families received the high-quality care and service they deserve.
  Theresa will continue to serve our veterans in the Veterans 
Administration San Diego Healthcare System. We will miss her in our 
valley.
  Stephen Bauman, the director of the Fresno VA hospital, described 
Theresa in this way:

       In my 40 years in working with the Federal Government, I 
     have rarely worked with someone that is so focused on 
     supporting our fellow veterans. Theresa's dedication and her 
     commitment to our Nation's heroes is unparalleled. She works 
     tirelessly to ensure each veteran is provided the best 
     support possible and has truly been an inspiration to me. She 
     will be missed by all of us who worked with her.

  Theresa is a veteran herself. She proudly served, as I said, this 
country in the United States Army. Altogether, she has been serving our 
Nation honorably for 19 years, an incredible record.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing the 
outstanding service of Theresa DiMaggio, her strong commitment to 
supporting our veterans, and the example that she has set for all of 
us. We cannot thank her enough for her service to our country.
  Congratulations on a job well done, and God bless.

[[Page H684]]

  

                          ____________________



