

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 7, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1468-H1469]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING ROME ELKS LODGE #96

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Fitzpatrick). Under the Speaker's 
announced policy of January 3, 2017, the gentlewoman from New York (Ms. 
Tenney) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader.
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Rome Elks.
  Hailing from Rome Elks Lodge #96 on Liberty Street, our hometown Elks 
truly embody the mission the Elks National Foundation has been 
committed to for over 140 years. For generations, Elks around the 
Nation have dedicated themselves to building strong communities and 
lending a helping hand to their fellow neighbors.
  Today I would like to recognize an outstanding group of hometown Elks 
who have made the journey from Oneida County to visit us here in 
Washington: Donna Townsend; Whitney Cook; Mary Bielby; and retired 
captain of the Rome Police Department, John Bielby.
  Our Elks in Rome and around the country help our youth develop 
lifelong skills, assist students who are attending college, support 
charitable work in their communities, and care for our local veterans.
  However, Rome Elks are unique to all other Elks in the country. In 
addition to the honorable work of the Elks, Rome Elks also carry out 
the longstanding tradition of caring for the gravesite of a historic 
Rome native, Sir Francis Bellamy. Some of you may not know it, but Sir 
Francis Bellamy is the author of our uniquely American tradition, the 
Pledge of Allegiance.
  Francis Bellamy was born in Mount Morris, New York, attended our Rome 
public schools, and graduated from Rome Free Academy, affectionately 
known as RFA, in 1872.
  Every day throughout our country, in public and parochial schools; at 
Boy Scout and Girl Scout meetings; at American Legions and all 
fraternal and patriotic organizations; in government, including here in 
our Nation's Capitol, millions of Americans recite the Pledge of 
Allegiance.
  The Pledge of Allegiance reminds our citizenry of the notion of what 
it means to be American. We pledge allegiance to this great experiment; 
to our constitutional Republic, a nation that reveres freedoms, 
individual rights, and liberty. We pledge allegiance to our country's 
historic Judeo-Christian values.
  Bellamy wrote the Pledge of Allegiance in 1892 at the age of 37. 
During his time working as a writer for a magazine called ``The Youth's 
Companion,'' a family magazine that, at the time, had 500,000 
subscribers, Bellamy was tasked with creating a patriotic school 
program to honor the 400th anniversary of Christopher Columbus' arrival 
to America. Through this assignment, the Pledge of Allegiance, as we 
know it today, took shape.
  At a trying time in our Nation's history, Francis Bellamy captured so 
elegantly and simply America's unity and loyalty. With only a sentence, 
Bellamy ultimately symbolized America's ability to surpass all internal 
differences. It is the manifestation of our patriotic conscience and it 
is recognized throughout our Nation.
  Francis Bellamy's spirit pervades in Rome to this day, especially 
during patriotic holidays, like Flag Day. On Flag Day, the Rome Elks 
replace the two American flags that fly over Sir Francis Bellamy's 
gravesite. These annual ceremonies are a dedication to the patriotic 
principles that our flag has stood for since it was first adopted in 
1777. In 2008, the Rome Elks started a significant renovation project 
on Bellamy's gravesite, and completed it 1 year later, just in time to 
rededicate it for Flag Day.
  In addition to their work in honoring Sir Francis Bellamy and the 
American flag, the Rome Elks are also well known for their commitment 
to helping our local veterans.
  Recently, the Rome Elks held a fundraiser to raise money for therapy 
dogs for veterans through a local organization called Clear Path for 
Vets. As part of the fundraiser, the Rome Elks took flags that had 
flown over Sir Francis Bellamy's gravesite and removed the stars and 
stripes. They then individually separated and added a slip of paper 
with the words ``This little star is proud to say I flew over Bellamy's 
grave.'' The Rome Elks call this project ``Stars Over Bellamy.''
  They started with 300 of these little packets, but quickly added 200 
more when they realized how popular this projects was. To date, the 
Rome Elks have raised over $1,000 for this fundraising effort. One of 
the most touching aspects is that every veteran that a Rome Elks member 
comes across receives one of these stars for free as a thank-you for 
their years of service.
  I was lucky enough to be able to purchase a star for myself and a few 
others for my son, who is currently serving in the Marine Corps. It is 
a constant reminder for me of the legacy Francis Bellamy left for our 
country, as well as the patriotic principles I as a member of the Ilion 
Elks Lodge #1444--a nearby Elks Lodge down the street--have come to 
live by.
  These are just a few examples of the hard work and devotion that the 
Rome Elks show for their community. The Rome Elks bring so much more to 
the community than just a building. Although it is a beautiful, 
historic building on Liberty Street--aptly named--in Rome, New York, 
they invest in programs that help children grow up healthy and drug-
free, meet the needs of today's veterans, and improve the quality of 
life for our area.
  As I mentioned, as a member of the nearby Ilion Elks Lodge #1444, I 
am proud to know and work with so many outstanding Elks and members 
throughout our region. I also am excited to participate in our 
benevolent Elks Lodge, which has a motorcycle ride each year, where we 
travel to each of the Elks Lodges and raise money for charities that 
help many of our veterans in need.
  So I just want to say, if you happen to be visiting our region, take 
the time to stop by one of our wonderful Elks Lodges. They have weekly 
events. Particularly in the Rome Elks Lodge, they have Tuesday Wing 
Night, Wednesday Night Spaghetti Supper, Fish Fry Friday, or one of our 
special events on the weekends or holidays. It is really a beautiful 
and wonderful time to meet and have fellowship with a community that is 
so patriotic and so devoted to our Nation.
  Today I urge all my colleagues and anyone watching at home to thank

[[Page H1469]]

Elks Lodges from around our Nation for the tremendous work they do for 
our communities, especially our veterans. Or, better yet, take the 
opportunity to volunteer at an Elks Lodge or consider joining an Elks 
Lodge. They do so much great benevolent work for our communities.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



