

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 34 (Monday, February 26, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1244-H1246]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    RECOGNIZING IMPORTANCE AND EFFECTIVENESS OF TRAUMA-INFORMED CARE

  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to 
the resolution (H. Res. 443) recognizing the importance and 
effectiveness of trauma-informed care, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
  The text of the resolution is as follows:

                              H. Res. 443

       Whereas traumatic experiences affect millions of people in 
     the United States and can affect a person's mental, 
     emotional, physical, spiritual, economic, and social well-
     being;
       Whereas adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) can be 
     traumatizing and, if not recognized, can affect health across 
     the lifespan and, in some cases, result in a shortened life 
     span;
       Whereas ACEs are recognized as a proxy for toxic stress, 
     which can affect brain development and can cause a lifetime 
     of physical, mental, and social challenges;
       Whereas ACEs and trauma are determinants of public health 
     problems in the United States such as obesity, addiction, and 
     serious mental illness;
       Whereas trauma-informed care is an approach that can bring 
     greater understanding and more effective ways to support and 
     serve children, adults, families, and communities affected by 
     trauma;
       Whereas trauma-informed care is not a therapy or an 
     intervention, but a principle-based, culture-change process 
     aimed at recognizing strengths and resiliency as well as 
     helping people who have experienced trauma to overcome those 
     issues in order to lead healthy and positive lives;
       Whereas adopting trauma-informed approaches in workplaces, 
     communities, and government programs can aid in preventing 
     mental, emotional, physical, and/or social issues for people 
     impacted by toxic stress and/or trauma;
       Whereas trauma-informed care has been promoted and 
     established in communities across the United States, 
     including the following different uses of trauma-informed 
     care being utilized by various types of entities:
       (1) The State of Wisconsin established Fostering Futures, a 
     statewide initiative partnering the State with Tribes, State 
     agencies, county governments, and nonprofit organizations to 
     make Wisconsin the first trauma-informed State. The goal of 
     Fostering Futures is to reduce toxic stress and improve 
     lifelong health and well-being for all Wisconsinites.
       (2) The Menominee Tribe in Wisconsin improved educational 
     and public health outcomes by increasing understanding of 
     historical trauma and childhood adversity and by developing 
     culturally relevant, trauma-informed practices.
       (3) In Chicago, Illinois, schools of medicine provide 
     critical trauma-informed care, including the University of 
     Illinois at Chicago Comprehensive Assessment and Response 
     Training System, which improves the quality of psychiatric 
     services provided to youth in foster care, and the University 
     of Chicago Recovery & Empowerment After Community Trauma 
     Initiative, which helps residents who are coping with 
     community violence.
       (4) In Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, service providers, 
     academics, and local artists use art to engage their 
     community to educate and involve citizens in trauma-informed 
     care activities.
       (5) In San Francisco, California, the city's public health 
     department aligned its workforce to create a trauma-informed 
     system.
       (6) In Kansas City, Missouri, schools worked to become 
     trauma-informed by encouraging teachers and children to 
     create their own self-care plans to manage stress. They have 
     implemented broad communitywide, trauma-informed culture 
     change.
       (7) In Tarpon Springs, Florida, the city crafted a 
     community effort to gather city officials, professionals, and 
     residents to coordinate multiple trauma-informed activities, 
     including a community education day.
       (8) In Worcester, Massachusetts, community members worked 
     with the Massachusetts State Department of Mental Health to 
     create a venue with peer-to-peer support to better engage 
     individuals dealing with trauma or extreme emotional 
     distress.
       (9) In Walla Walla, Washington, the city and community 
     members launched the Children's Resilience Initiative to 
     mobilize neighborhoods and Washington State agencies to 
     tackle ACEs.
       (10) The State of Oregon passed the first law to promote 
     trauma-informed approaches to decrease rates of school 
     absenteeism and understanding and promoting best practices to 
     leverage community resources to support youth.
       (11) The State of Massachusetts passed a law to promote 
     whole-school efforts to implement trauma-informed care 
     approaches to support the social, emotional, and academic 
     well-being of all students, including both preventive and 
     intensive services and supports depending on students' needs.
       (12) The State of Washington implemented the ACEs Public-
     Private Initiative, a collaboration among private, public, 
     and community organizations to research and inform policies 
     to prevent childhood trauma and reduce its negative 
     emotional, social, and health effects;
       Whereas the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
     Administration provides substantial resources to better 
     engage individuals and communities across the United

[[Page H1245]]

     States to implement trauma-informed care; and
       Whereas numerous Federal agencies have integrated trauma-
     informed approaches into their programs and grants and could 
     benefit from closer collaboration: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
       (1) recognizes the importance, effectiveness, and need for 
     trauma-informed care among existing programs and agencies at 
     the Federal level; and
       (2) encourages the use and practice of trauma-informed care 
     within the Federal Government, its agencies, and the United 
     States Congress.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Burgess) and the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gene Green) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Burgess).


                             General Leave

  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and insert extraneous material into the Record on the resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of Representative  Mike 
Gallagher's H. Res. 443, which recognizes the importance and 
effectiveness of trauma-informed care.
  According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration, trauma results from an event or a series of events that 
cause intense physical and psychological stress reactions. The 
individual's functioning and emotional, physical, social, and spiritual 
health can be severely affected. It is important that health providers 
understand the nature and impact of trauma when caring for their 
patients.
  H. Res. 443 highlights the work of States in trauma-informed care and 
encourages the Federal Government to build on the States' momentum by 
identifying opportunities to embed this approach to care within current 
Federal health operations.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 443, Recognizing the 
Importance and Effectiveness of Trauma-Informed Care, sponsored by 
Congressman Gallagher from Wisconsin and Congressman Davis from 
Illinois.
  This resolution recognizes the important role that trauma plays in 
health and life situations and the importance of deploying trauma-
informed protocols to respond to traumatic experiences.
  Research shows that traumatic experiences are associated with 
behavioral health and chronic physical health conditions, such as 
substance use disorders, mental health conditions, and heart disease.
  Traumatic experiences, such as physical or sexual abuse, neglect, 
bullying, community-based violence, and natural disasters give rise to 
these negative health consequences.
  Because of the harmful consequences of trauma, it is important for 
our health system to deploy trauma-informed protocols.
  The resolution recognizes the importance of Federal agencies 
deploying trauma-informed care to ensure that local care providers are 
appropriately engaging individuals with histories of trauma, and 
implementing strategies to intervene on the negative consequences of 
traumatic experiences.
  I urge my colleagues to join me and support this resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Gallagher), the principal author of this resolution.
  Mr. GALLAGHER. Mr. Speaker, this is a great day for children, for 
vulnerable populations, and caregivers in my home State of Wisconsin 
and across this country.

                              {time}  1800

  H. Res. 443 recognizes the importance of trauma-informed care to 
individual wellness, the efficacy of care, and improved quality of life 
for those who have experienced trauma. Passage of this resolution 
demonstrates that this body believes in the power that trauma-informed 
care can have in helping children, families, and adults overcome trauma 
and lead healthy lives.
  From veterans reintegrating into society to survivors of childhood 
abuse, individuals from across the population can benefit from the 
simple but effective principles of trauma-informed care. By recognizing 
and sensitively addressing the impacts of traumatic experiences, we can 
build stronger and more resilient communities.
  We all want to address major public health issues like addiction, 
mental health issues, and obesity, and this resolution moves the ball 
forward by raising awareness and building momentum behind evidence-
based best practices and solutions.
  Rigorous study and academic review have shown benefits for 
organizations, communities, and governments that implement trauma-
informed care.
  I am proud to announce that my home State of Wisconsin, under the 
leadership of our first lady, Tonette Walker, is on track to becoming 
the first fully trauma-informed State in the Nation. In Illinois, home 
to our colleague and the colead of this resolution, Congressman  Danny 
Davis, experts have come together to make this material more accessible 
to policymakers and the public.
  Exciting innovation in mental healthcare is happening across this 
country, and this resolution recognizes that hard work.
  Mr. Speaker, in closing, I express my sincere thanks to my colleague, 
Congressman Davis, for his commitment to this resolution. I also thank 
Tonette Walker, first lady of Wisconsin, for her dedication and service 
and leadership in this important cause.
  Mr. Speaker, additionally, I thank the chairman and the ranking 
member of the committee for their hard work on this issue as well.
  H. Res. 443 is an important step in breaking down the stigma 
surrounding mental healthcare and building more inclusive communities, 
more resilient communities, more strong communities that take care of 
each other. I encourage all of my colleagues to support its passage.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Danny K. Davis), the 
cosponsor of the bill.
  Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I commend Dr. Burgess 
for his leadership, and Representative Gene Green. They have both 
demonstrated, I think, the kind of leadership that we are often 
seeking, searching for, and looking for.
  Mr. Speaker, it has been my pleasure to work with Representative 
Gallagher of Wisconsin in development of this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I also want to commend the first lady of Wisconsin for 
the leadership that she has provided. Of course, the first lady is the 
wife of the Governor. I must admit that I was a bit amazed when we were 
contacted by the first lady of Wisconsin to talk about this kind of 
legislation and to talk about the importance of it.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 443, which recognizes 
the importance and effectiveness of trauma-informed care and proposes 
to implement this care at the Federal level.
  Traumatic experiences affect millions of people across the country, 
including the city of Chicago. It is integral to the development of any 
person who has experienced trauma to get physical and emotional support 
after experiencing an extremely stressful life event.
  This is especially important to our Nation's children, as adverse 
childhood experiences can affect the health of a child for the rest of 
his or her life. If a child does not receive care for trauma, it could 
even shorten his or her lifespan, and this stress facilitates negative 
brain development.
  Trauma-informed care addresses the survivor's specific needs in 
relation to his or her personal trauma and recovery. It promotes a 
collaborative environment between the survivor and close friends and 
family, and it addresses the symptoms of trauma that require treatment. 
This helps the survivor work through his or her recovery in a positive 
way with the support of close allies.

[[Page H1246]]

  Though many States have adopted trauma-informed care programs, it is 
essential to implement trauma-informed care at the Federal level and 
make sure that people anywhere in the country get the treatment and 
support they need, not just those in certain States.
  It has also been my pleasure to work closely with Senator Durbin, the 
senior Senator from the State of Illinois, and hundreds of groups that 
have formed a coalition to help promote and develop an understanding of 
just how much trauma care is needed.
  Very seldom do I talk about it or mention it, but I had a grandson 
who was murdered a year or so ago, and there were other children in the 
home. It was a home invasion. So I can tell people firsthand that the 
kind of attention and care that individuals get after they have had a 
traumatic experience makes a tremendous amount of difference in their 
recovery.
  I also note that I was trained as a psychologist, and so I have 
interacted in many instances with individuals who had experienced 
stress. So this is an excellent piece of legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I commend Representative Gallagher again for his 
leadership. It has been my pleasure to work with him. I look forward to 
the passage of this resolution.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and 
I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  This is an important resolution. I urge its passage.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Burgess) that the House suspend the rules and 
agree to the resolution, H. Res. 443, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the resolution, as amended, was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



