

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 27, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1223-S1227]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the previous order, the 
Senate will proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the 
following nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of 
Elizabeth L. Branch, of Georgia, to be United States Circuit Judge for 
the Eleventh Circuit.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Democratic leader is 
recognized.


                               Gun Safety

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, after Columbine, Sandy Hook, Charleston, 
Orlando, Las Vegas, and too many more to name, the Nation convulsed, 
and we talked about reforming our gun safety laws to prevent more names 
and places from being added to the list. Each time, we talked, but the 
Senate, the House--this government--did nothing.
  Now, in the wake of the tragic shooting at Stoneman Douglas High 
School that took the lives of another 17 Americans, we must try again 
to pass meaningful changes to our laws to keep our children safe. That 
is our duty, and there are many things we could and should pursue.
  Yesterday, I suggested that comprehensive background checks would

[[Page S1224]]

be an excellent and necessary place to start. It doesn't make sense 
that we allow anyone, regardless of his criminal history--felons--or a 
history of mental illness, to walk into a gun show or to go online and 
buy a gun with no questions asked. There is no sense in that. When I 
wrote the Brady Law back in 1993, gun shows were not popular, and we 
didn't have internet sales to worry about at the time because there was 
no internet. These loopholes grew and grew and grew over time. Now, it 
is hard to know the exact number because we don't record the number of 
guns that are sold at gun shows or online, but about one-fifth of all 
gun sales happen without there being background checks.
  It is likely that criminals and others who are up to no good have a 
higher percentage because they do not want to be detected and go 
through background checks. It is outrageous that so many guns are sold 
with there being no background checks whatsoever--whether you are a 
felon, one who is adjudicated mentally ill, or a spousal abuser. It is 
outrageous. We should close those loopholes and close them now. We 
should have comprehensive background checks, not just a little 
something here and a little something there. Comprehensive background 
checks are supported overwhelmingly by the American people.
  Later this morning, just in about 15, 20 minutes, I will be meeting 
with several of the students--the brave, courageous students--from 
Stoneman Douglas High School. I want to hear what they have to say. 
These brave students, whether at the Florida statehouse or on national 
television, have spoken out with passion, with eloquence, with grace. I 
believe they are changing the way our country thinks about this issue. 
I hope--I pray--they compel us to do something significant because we 
cannot settle for half measures, not after what happened in Florida, 
not after so many tragedies.
  The fix NICS bill is an idea that has wide support in this Chamber, 
but it is tiny. It is a grant program that addresses one specific 
issue. Now, we have a whole host of issues to address, not just one. 
Fix NICS was aimed by the Senator from Texas at a particular tragedy in 
Texas by which a member of the Air Force had a record that would have 
disqualified him from getting a gun, but the Air Force failed to send 
the statement to NICS. It is a good thing to make sure that doesn't 
happen, but we should not be aiming our gun legislation simply at one 
past tragedy. We must look to the future and what will prevent future 
tragedies. Comprehensive background checks will; the Fix NICS bill will 
not.

  So let's not set our sights too narrow and squander this moment. 
Let's try for significant, bipartisan legislation that will make a real 
difference in keeping our children safe. Even as our caucus discusses 
what legislation is best--and in our leadership meeting, we had an 
outstanding discussion this morning--I look forward to working with our 
Republican colleagues to see if we can get something real done.


                             Net Neutrality

  Mr. President, on another matter, today Senate Democrats will be 
introducing our legislation to reverse the FCC's repeal of net 
neutrality. It has the support of every single Democrat and one Senate 
Republican, Senator Collins from the State of Maine.
  I say to all my Republican colleagues: This CRA is the best way to 
undo the terrible decision to repeal net neutrality. It is an important 
debate. At stake are two opposing visions of the future of the 
internet.
  For its entire history, the internet has been free and open, 
accessible to all Americans. It has been a true public good, just as 
our highways have. Whether you are on Main Street or Wall Street, you 
have the same internet. Whether you are a consumer or big corporation, 
you have the same internet. Whether you are a teacher in a wealthy 
school or an underresourced school, you have the same internet. 
Equality of access has driven innovation and entrepreneurship and so 
much of what we value in the American spirit and the American economy. 
It is the American way.
  Net neutrality rules were put in place to ensure that the internet 
remains that way--open and equal access to all, no matter who you are, 
how much money you have, how much power you have. But the repeal by the 
Republican-led FCC has opened us to an entirely new universe where 
internet service providers--the big boys--will have the authority to 
sell quality internet to the highest bidder. That means they could 
restrict customers' access to their favorite websites by forcing them 
to buy internet packages or pay more for premium services.
  Big companies could pay to get faster internet service, while 
startups and small businesses and average Americans are left in the 
slow lane.
  Everything from Netflix, to Amazon Prime, to Spotify, streaming 
television, sports, and movies could be slower if you don't pay up.
  Public schools that don't pay for premium service could be put at a 
significant disadvantage.
  Startups that are looking to get their businesses off the ground but 
aren't large enough to negotiate faster internet delivery with ISPs 
might never take off. Our startups in New York are scared to death of 
the elimination of net neutrality, and they have created hundreds of 
thousands of jobs in my city and millions throughout the country.
  The internet without net neutrality is a tale of two internets, where 
the best internet goes to the highest bidder and everyone else loses.
  We have an opportunity to save the internet with our CRA, which would 
reinstitute net neutrality rules that keep the internet just the way it 
is now. Democrats believe that the future of the internet must be as 
free and open as in the past; that the startup founder living in her 
parents' basement should be able to compete with the world's largest 
corporations; that the young student in an underserved school district 
should be able to find all the information he needs online; that every 
American should be able to afford easily accessible internet. If we 
start gradating the internet, it could dramatically hurt our economy 
and hurt equality in America--something we are all striving for.
  Right now, unfortunately, only one Republican has signed up for the 
fair, open vision of an internet that we need and want to keep. All we 
need is one more. On this net neutrality day of action, I urge all 
Americans to contact their Senators and demand they sign up with us to 
save the internet.


                          Republican Tax Bill

  Mr. President, finally, a word on the Republican tax bill. When 
President Trump and congressional Republicans were trying to sell their 
tax bill, all we heard about was how it is going to be a boon to 
workers, stimulate investments in new factories, raise wages, and 
create jobs. It is a few months after the tax bill, and the promises 
have not been backed up by the evidence.
  Now the evidence is flowing in that corporations are spending the 
lion's share of the benefits they reap on the tax bill not on workers 
but on goosing their own stock.
  A headline from Monday's New York Times states ``Trump's Tax Cuts in 
Hand, Companies Spend More on Themselves Than on Wages.'' The article 
goes on to document how the Republican tax bill has unleashed a wave of 
share buybacks and stock repurchasing programs, things which help out 
rich executives and shareholders but don't accomplish much for everyday 
American workers. If you are a CEO of a company, you are judged by 
whether your stock is going up. The quickest hit on that is to buy back 
your shares, reduce the number. It doesn't help your workers, it 
doesn't help American productivity, but it helps your bottom line, Mr. 
CEO.
  That is so wrong, that we passed a huge tax bill and put ourselves in 
deep debt so that much of the money can go to corporate executives--not 
improving the actual performance of their companies but just raising 
the value of their stock by buybacks. That is so wrong.
  The article in the New York Times documents how the Republican tax 
bill has unleashed this wave of share buybacks and stock repurchasing 
programs, which, as I said, helps out rich executives and shareholders 
but doesn't accomplish much for everyday workers.
  Rather than investing in new equipment and research, raising wages, 
providing better benefits, and raising productivity, which we are so 
short of here

[[Page S1225]]

in America right now, corporate America is using the Trump tax cut to 
give itself a raise.
  At Morgan Stanley--hardly a leftwing company--the analysts surveyed a 
bunch of companies, and the companies surveyed said that they would 
pass only 13 percent of the Trump tax cut savings on to workers, 
compared to the 43 percent that go to share buybacks. For 
manufacturers--we all care about manufacturing--it is even worse. They 
expect 9 percent to go to workers and 47 percent to go to share 
buybacks.
  Republicans made a conscious decision to give corporations and the 
wealthiest Americans the lion's share of the tax cuts and promised it 
would trickle down to everybody else. Unfortunately, trickle-down never 
works. Corporate America is doing what is best for corporate America, 
and working America is getting left behind.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The assistant Democratic leader.


                               Gun Safety

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, a few years ago, an author named Malcolm 
Gladwell wrote a book titled ``The Tipping Point.'' He spelled out that 
in the course of history, when something occurs that changes people's 
thinking and actions, it is a precipitous moment where what has been 
done for so long stops, is reevaluated, and a different course is 
followed. The clear question we have in America today is whether we 
have reached a tipping point when it comes to gun violence.
  It has only been 13 days since the tragedy in Parkland, FL. Look at 
what has happened since. Of course there is outrage, sadness, and 
mourning for the families who lost these wonderful students, teachers, 
and administrators, but beyond that, these high school students--17, 18 
years old, some even younger--have become a national voice, a powerful 
voice on the issue of gun safety in schools.
  I often wondered when this moment might occur or whether it would 
occur. There has been such a long litany and string of mass shootings 
and massacres. It is sad to say that there was a numbness setting in. 
When terrible things occurred in places like Las Vegas, Texas, and 
other States, you wondered, is that the event? Will the killing of 
those innocent children in Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut 
be the tipping point? Will America finally say ``enough''? It appears 
that on this day, 13 days after the tragedy in Florida, we are near or 
at a tipping point when it comes to gun safety.
  Some of it is very personal. Two weeks ago, after this occurred, my 
6-year-old granddaughter said to her mother that she had been warned in 
her first grade classroom that if a shooter should turn up at school 
firing a gun, first, she should stay away from the windows, and second, 
she should lie down on the floor. I can't tell you what a profound 
impact that had on me as a grandfather to think that my little first 
grader, this beautiful little girl, was worried about the moment when 
somebody would walk in her classroom and wantonly try to kill the 
students and teachers who are there.
  I cannot believe that any sane person believes that the Second 
Amendment to the Constitution--the right to bear arms--envisioned that 
possibility. I am sure it didn't. I am sure our Founding Fathers--and 
we can debate for the rest of the day what their words actually meant--
never envisioned that an American citizen's right to bear arms could 
somehow translate into violence against so many innocent people, as it 
has over and over again.
  Last week, I was in Chicago. I was joined at a press conference by 
gun safety advocates at the Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center on 
the South Side. We stood together, victims of gun violence and I, at a 
press conference. With me were advocates from Hadiya's Promise and the 
Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence, who have been working 
together for years to combat the scourge gun violence in Illinois. I 
also stood with Patrick Korellis, who was wounded on February 14 10 
years ago at a mass school shooting at Northern Illinois University in 
DeKalb, IL.
  A new voice came to join us, a graduate from Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School in Parkland, FL, named Francyn Brown. She graduated from 
Stoneman Douglas in 2009. She is currently a law student at the 
Chicago-Kent College of Law. She is one of dozens of Stoneman Douglas 
graduates in the Chicago area--which include, incidentally, the first 
baseman for the Chicago Cubs, Anthony Rizzo--and hundreds, if not 
thousands, nationwide who joined together in the aftermath of the 
February 14 mass shooting that killed 14 Stoneman Douglas students and 
3 staff. These young men and women have come together to speak up and 
urge their lawmakers to do something about the Nation's epidemic of gun 
violence. The message is starting to resonate.
  When Francyn Brown was speaking last Wednesday, students at schools 
across the Chicagoland area were walking out of class in solidarity 
with Stoneman Douglas students. They are all calling for commonsense 
gun reform. These students don't have time or patience for political 
games in Washington or Springfield. They have seen their friends, kids 
just like themselves, get shot in their classrooms and neighborhoods. 
They have had enough.
  Francyn Brown said:

       It's not supposed to matter what side of the aisle a 
     politician sits. We are supposed to all protect the future of 
     our children.

  I couldn't agree more.
  These students and young people across the country are changing the 
debate about gun violence. They are making it clear how absurd it is 
for lawmakers in this Chamber, across the rotunda, or in State capitals 
to do nothing when Americans get shot every day in their homes, their 
neighborhoods, their churches, nightclubs, concerts, and schools. They 
are fed up with politicians in Washington who ignore the overwhelming 
majority of Americans who want commonsense gun safety and listen 
instead to paranoid, bullying gun sales lobbyists.
  Remember, the National Rifle Association and its allies oppose 
virtually anything that hurts gun sales. They fight against proposals 
that might reduce gun sales, and they try to roll back laws on the 
books that limit them. That is their agenda. But it is not America's 
agenda. Corporate America is starting to walk away from the NRA. It is 
no longer a source of pride that they are doing business with the 
National Rifle Association--just the opposite. We are seeing company 
after company end relationships with the NRA because of its 
increasingly unhinged and hysterical rhetoric on the issue of gun 
safety. Corporate America--some of the biggest corporations in our 
Nation--realize that the NRA no longer speaks for responsible gun 
owners. When will Congress realize this?
  We know we need to act to keep our children safe. There is no single 
reform that can stop every shooting, but we know there are gaps in our 
gun laws that make it easy for criminals, abusers, troubled children, 
and mentally unstable people to get guns, even military assault weapons 
with bump stocks and high-capacity magazines.
  We need to close these gaps, and that requires the Republicans who 
control Congress to stand up to the NRA and do something that the NRA 
might not like. For starters, my Republican colleagues could take up 
legislation that the leader of their party, President Trump, proposed 
last Thursday. Here is one of the President's infamous tweets:

       I will be strongly pushing Comprehensive Background Checks 
     with an emphasis on Mental Health. Raise age to 21 and end 
     sale of Bump Stocks! Congress is in a mood to finally do 
     something on this issue--I hope!

  And I hope as well.
  There are proposals that Americans broadly support. Let's do 
something. Of course, the NRA is opposed to most of these. We expected 
that. These proposals might have some negative impact on gun sales, but 
is the gun sales lobby now in charge of writing bills for the Senate 
and the House? Deferring to the NRA is the reason we have reached this 
moment in history.
  Remember, the Senate has held one gun vote since President Trump came 
to office, and it was a vote to prevent mental health records from the 
Social Security Administration from going into the FBI's gun background 
check system. That is the only vote since the Trump administration took 
office. It is the only thing we have done here--roll back a law on the 
books on mental health and background checks. That was a giveaway to 
the gun lobby, which claims to support enforcing the laws on the books 
but actually tries to roll

[[Page S1226]]

back those laws if it means helping to lift their sales.
  Let's show the students at Stoneman Douglas and across the country 
that we hear them. I hope we show that reducing gun violence is a 
priority.
  I call on my Republican colleagues to join the Democrats in a 
bipartisan effort to treat the issue of gun safety with the sense of 
urgency that the American people believe is necessary. If Republicans 
gave a fraction of the effort to gun safety that they have to other 
issues, we could get this done--and done quickly. There are plenty of 
reforms we could pass that are completely consistent with the Second 
Amendment and would save lives. Even President Trump, for the time 
being, has said that he supports them.
  So let's get started. Not on a giveaway to the gun lobby--let's work 
on closing loopholes. Let's have universal background checks. Over 90 
percent of the American people believe we should keep guns out of the 
hands of convicted felons and mentally unstable people. I also believe 
that those who are subject to protective orders for domestic violence 
should be disqualified from buying a gun. I would say that those who 
are on the terrorist watch list, whom we do not allow to fly on 
airplanes because of fear that they could do harm to others, shouldn't 
be allowed to buy guns in the United States. I want to add a provision 
that straw purchasers--the girlfriends with no criminal record who buy 
the weapons to give to the boyfriends with a long criminal record--
ought to have the book thrown at them. Let's get to work.
  I want to thank the victims and advocates who have worked for many 
years to help reduce the epidemic of gun violence. I want them to know 
we stand with them, and I hope we can all stand with them on a 
bipartisan basis.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority whip.


                             Fix NICS Bill

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I heard the remarks of my colleague from 
Illinois, and I, too, hope that we can get past the rhetoric and the 
talking points of the past and actually do something meaningful when it 
comes to public safety and address the terrible tragedies like the one 
that occurred at Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida just 2 weeks 
ago. But we are not going to do it by trotting out our laundry lists of 
requests and saying that it has to be all of this or nothing because 
when you say here in Washington--and particularly in Congress--``I want 
everything on my list or I want nothing,'' one thing is for sure. You 
will end up with nothing, and that simply is an unacceptable outcome, 
particularly when it comes to the public safety crisis manifested here 
most recently at Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida.
  We know that there were many, many failures; you might even call this 
a systemic failure when it comes to the children at Stoneman Douglas 
High School. First and foremost, why didn't Federal and local law 
enforcement follow up on threats and warnings? This young man, the 
shooter who took the lives of 17 people, telegraphed in very clear, 
unmistakable language what he intended to do, but the very people whom 
we trust and entrust with public safety at the Federal and State levels 
did not respond.
  We know that the alleged shooter was expelled from school for 
disciplinary reasons. We know that deputies in Broward County received 
at least 18 calls warning them over the course of several years--18 
calls. We know about the disturbing YouTube posts, where the shooter 
basically said what he intend to do and did, in fact, do later. We know 
that the FBI received many disturbing tips from citizens about the 
imminent danger posed by the shooter.
  Another question is whether mental health officials could have done 
more. We know that this young man had a long history of violent 
outbursts. We are told that in 2016 he reportedly attempted suicide by 
drinking gasoline. He had been accused of verbal slurs against racial 
and religious minorities.
  We know that Florida has a State law, as some have advocated at the 
Federal level, that permits forced hospitalization of people in mental 
health crises, but it seems that in this particular case, mental health 
workers concluded that this individual was stable at the time they 
examined him. Why and how was that determination made, and why does 
that stand in such stark contrast to the picture that we have been able 
to draw as a result of all the information that we received since this 
terrible shooting? If law enforcement, public health workers, and 
school officials were communicating and coordinating effectively, would 
they have made the same decisions in this case? Could they have made a 
difference in the outcome? Well, I think we need the answers to those 
questions.
  There are two other questions we need to answer as well. One is why 
and how did the shooter have access to firearms in the first place? 
Another is why didn't the school's armed resource officer intervene 
once the shooting began?
  All of us are angry at the fact that this shooting happened, but that 
shouldn't tempt us into easy solutions that at the end of the day 
wouldn't make any difference in the outcome and wouldn't do any good. 
That is what we tend to get here in Congress when we have hard issues 
like this--easy solution talking points that lead to no effective 
action. We can't let that happen here. As one columnist put it last 
week, we can't fall victim to ``the politics of false hope.''
  The most frequent refrain I hear in Washington after some tragedy 
like this occurs is ``We need to do something.'' Well, we need to do 
something effective, something that would change the likely outcome. We 
may not be able to protect every citizen against terrible tragedies 
like this, but there are things we can do that will make things better 
and that will be effective in changing the outcome and, I believe, in 
saving lives.
  Real solutions require us to look at why the FBI and local law 
enforcement failed to respond to multiple warnings. I asked one police 
officer about this, and he said: Well, in America we can't arrest 
somebody for precrimes. In other words, we can't arrest somebody for an 
offense that they haven't committed yet. It is perhaps a flaw that is 
exposed in our system when, unfortunately, we can't anticipate who 
might commit these terrible offenses and stop them before they commit 
the act. That is a feature of our law enforcement system, but this 
isn't just another job for law enforcement. There are a lot more people 
who could contribute to a solution here and prevent these incidents 
from happening beyond law enforcement, who are, by our very 
Constitution, structured to investigate and prosecute crimes that have 
already occurred, not to stop them in the first place.
  I think a fair question to ask is, What is the role of social media 
in preventing mass violence? When you have people basically telling us 
what they are getting ready to do and posting those on social media and 
nothing seems to happen as a consequence, it strikes me that something 
is terribly wrong there. What is the responsibility of these platforms? 
Well, we know that Congress has said, for example, that you have a 
responsibility to police your platform for things like child 
pornography. In other words, they can't be totally oblivious to the 
things that are being posted on these social media platforms. They have 
a responsibility to intervene in some cases, and maybe it ought to be 
in more cases.
  What options currently exist to reporting disturbing content online? 
I believe in the YouTube video case, it was someone who actually saw 
it, was disturbed by it, and then reported it to the FBI. It was not 
even YouTube itself that identified it. Of course, they would be in the 
best position to identify it immediately. It was some third party who 
happened to see it, was disturbed by it, and contacted the FBI. 
Tragically, it was never followed up on. How often are these popular 
platforms reporting to police or Federal authorities when people 
actually threaten to commit acts of violence? If there are holes in the 
reporting protocol, we should close them.
  That is why I think this is a systemic failure. When you look at 
mental health providers, when you look at law enforcement officials, 
when you look at the schools, when you look at the social media 
platforms, when you look at all of this together, I think it begins to 
give us some ideas about things we can do that may end up saving lives, 
and we should do them.
  Members are discussing many ideas, which always happens after a 
tragedy

[[Page S1227]]

like this, and I am open to a conversation with anyone who shares my 
desire to take effective action to prevent another one of these 
tragedies. There is one proposal that has already been introduced that 
has won bipartisan support and has brought together advocates from all 
sides. It is really a unique piece of legislation because there are not 
many times that I can think of where people who are strong Second 
Amendment advocates and people who believe there ought to be more 
controls imposed on guns can come together to find consensus, to find 
common ground, but we have on a bill called the Fix NICS Act, which I 
introduced to strengthen the background check system.
  It may take a long time to answer all the questions raised by the 
tragedy in Parkland, but one step we can take right now is to pass the 
Fix NICS bill. This bill has the unique quality of causing the junior 
Senator from Connecticut and me to cointroduce this bill. We couldn't 
be more ideologically different. He is a Democrat and I am a 
Republican, but we have come together on a bill that does enjoy broad 
bipartisan support and that, I believe, will save lives.
  This bill was introduced in the wake of the shooting last fall in the 
small community near San Antonio called Sutherland Springs, TX. As we 
will recall, a deranged gunman with a criminal record and a history of 
violence and mental illness opened fire during a Sunday morning church 
service, killing 26 people and wounding 20 more. To add to the tragedy 
that had already occurred, this murderer's criminal conviction records 
were never uploaded to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background 
Check System. When he went to purchase firearms, he lied about his 
record, and there was nothing in the criminal background check system 
to show that he lied and thus deny him the opportunity to purchase 
weapons. This failure to enforce our background check law allowed this 
shooter to walk into a gun store, pass a background check, and 
illegally purchase a firearm.
  This bipartisan legislation would tighten the National Instant 
Background Check System. It is supported by people all across the 
political spectrum. It is even cosponsored by the Democratic leader, 
Senator Schumer, and is supported by Everytown for Gun Safety. It has 
brought together all sides in the gun debate--leaders on the Republican 
side and Democratic side alike.

  Under current law, mentally ill individuals and persons convicted of 
violent crimes are prohibited by current law from purchasing or 
possessing firearms. This is to make sure that these laws are enforced 
and that criminal history information is uploaded into the NICS Federal 
database by State and Federal authorities.
  For years, our colleagues across the aisle have said that they want 
reform that would help stem the tide of gun violence perpetrated by 
dangerous criminals. Well, this is their chance. This is our chance. It 
is our chance to show the Nation that we refuse to accept shootings in 
schools and churches as the new normal, and we can do that. We can 
start doing that by passing Fix NICS this week.
  Senator Schumer, the minority leader, said yesterday that he wants to 
wait, even though he is a cosponsor of the Fix NICS bill. He is a 
cosponsor of the bill, but he says that he wants to wait. He wants to 
wait and debate other ideas he knows are controversial and can't pass. 
Of course, that is his right as a Senator, but as I said earlier, if 
our attitude is ``I want everything on my list or nothing,'' we are 
going to end up with nothing.
  I, for one, am not willing to go home and look my constituents in the 
face and say that we had an opportunity to pass legislation, the Fix 
NICS bill, which will save lives in the future and will make sure that 
existing laws are enforced. I will not be able to go home and tell 
them, in good faith, that we have done everything we can in our power 
to help save lives. We can do that by passing bipartisan legislation 
that could pass today if it were put on the floor and voted on by a 
supermajority of the Senate.
  I implore our Democratic colleagues to change course. Let's do the 
art of the possible. That is what politics is, the art of the possible. 
Let's do what we can immediately to pass Fix NICS and build from there. 
I am willing to work with them. The President is willing to work with 
them on things like bump stocks and the mental health failure, trying 
to make sure that our schools are safer and to make sure that social 
media platforms report threats of violence to law enforcement officials 
so they can be followed up on.
  There are a lot of other things we can do, but the one thing we can 
do this week before we go home is to pass the Fix NICS bill and to send 
it to the House and have the President sign it into law. It will save 
lives.
  I yield the floor.


                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority leader is recognized.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the Senate will soon vote to confirm 
another fine candidate to serve on the Federal bench.
  Yesterday afternoon, we voted to advance the nomination of Judge 
Elizabeth Branch for the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. Judge 
Branch has sat on the Georgia Court of Appeals since 2012. This follows 
a fine career that spanned both private practice and public service.
  Judge Branch has previously answered the call to serve at the 
Department of Homeland Security, where she worked as associate general 
counsel, and then at the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. 
Her record and qualifications are well known.
  Our colleagues on the Judiciary Committee reported her nomination 
favorably by an overwhelming vote. Confirming this worthy nominee will 
be a further credit to the outstanding work of Chairman Grassley and 
the members of the committee.
  I encourage all my colleagues to join me in voting to confirm 
Elizabeth Branch today. Let's continue to fulfill our constitutional 
responsibility and confirm the President's outstanding judicial 
nominees.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



