

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 5 (Tuesday, January 9, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H27-H28]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                A YEAR OF RESULTS FOR THE NORTH COUNTRY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
New York (Ms. Stefanik) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I want to take a moment today to highlight 
the real results we have achieved on behalf of north country families 
in this Congress.
  In 2017, we worked on many important initiatives to grow the north 
country economy, support our veterans and military families, strengthen 
our local healthcare system, and improve education. In fact, last year 
alone, the House of Representatives passed more than 470 bills and 
resolutions, 90 percent of which are bipartisan.
  In Congress, I focused on important legislation to grow our local 
economy. I recently introduced two bills that will increase access to 
rural broadband and help our north country farmers bring their 
production into the 21st century.
  I also helped the House pass legislation to strengthen career and 
technical education programs. This bipartisan bill updates Federal 
career and technical education policies to help more students gain the 
skills they need to compete for in-demand jobs.
  I have also introduced bipartisan legislation to boost north country 
tourism by extending the time Canadian visitors can spend each year in 
the United States.

  We have also made significant strides when it comes to education. For 
the past 3 years, I have worked to ensure that our students have the 
educational opportunities to achieve their limitless potential. In my 
first year in Congress, I introduced a bill to expand Pell grant access 
so that students can access this critical financial aid resource during 
summer months. I was pleased to see my initiative for year-round Pell 
signed into law this past May, meaning students and families in our 
district now have another important tool to achieve their higher 
education dreams.
  As the proud Representative of Fort Drum and the Navy nuclear site at 
Kesselring, my district is home to thousands of military families that 
make incredible sacrifices serving our Nation.
  In 2017, I was pleased to have a bill I authored pass the House of 
Representatives to help military spouses. This legislation eliminates a 
loophole that requires military spouses to establish residency every 
time their servicemember receives a new assignment.
  I also introduced two bills that will help military spouses that were 
signed into law in December. The Lift the Relocation Burden from 
Military Spouses Act increases professional license portability. This 
provides reimbursement for licensing fees of up to $500 for each 
permanent change of station. The second is the Military Residency 
Choice Act, which allows spouses the choice to establish the same State 
of residency as their servicemember spouse for voting and tax purposes.
  New York's 21st District is the proud home of more veterans than any 
other district in New York State. My district offices have been hard at 
work on their behalf helping to recover over $2.25 million in hard-
earned VA benefits for our veterans.
  Congress also passed an extension of the GI Bill education benefits 
that lifts the expiration on when they can be used, giving veterans 
more flexibility to attend higher education institutions.
  Last summer, Congress passed the Department of Veterans Affairs 
Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, which President Trump 
signed into law. This important law makes it easier to terminate 
failing VA employees and provides stronger protections for 
whistleblowers who raise the alarm over wait lists or medical 
malpractice.

[[Page H28]]

  


                              {time}  1100

  No veteran deserves to be denied care, and this law brings needed 
accountability to the VA.
  Healthcare is another issue I hear frequently about when I speak with 
families and businesses across my district, especially ensuring our 
rural communities have the access they need.
  In September, I introduced the CHIME Act, a bipartisan bill to extend 
the Community Health Center Fund for 5 years. Federally Qualified 
Health Centers like Hudson Headwaters, North Country Family Health, and 
the Community Health Center of the North Country provide over 95,000 
people in my district with critical healthcare and preventative 
services.
  I am pleased that this bill has over 200 cosponsors. The overwhelming 
bipartisan support for the CHIME Act was instrumental in the House 
passing legislation to extend the Community Health Center Fund for 2 
years.
  I have also been a strong supporter of CHIP and I voted to pass a 5-
year reauthorization in the House in November.
  While we work to have long-term solutions for these two programs 
signed into law, I was pleased to pass a critical extension for them in 
December.
  Mr. Speaker, last year was busy working hard to grow our North 
Country economy, increase access to education, serve our brave 
veterans, and much more. I am honored every day to serve New York's 
21st District in Congress and I look forward to continuing to work my 
hardest in 2018.

                          ____________________



