

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5479]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           MEASURES REFERRED

  The following bills were read the first and the second times by 
unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

       H.R. 931. An act to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to develop a voluntary registry to collect 
     data on cancer incidence among firefighters; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
       H.R. 2427. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002, to direct the Assistant Secretary for State and Local 
     Law Enforcement to produce and disseminate an annual catalog 
     on Department of Homeland Security training, publications, 
     programs, and services for State, local, and tribal law 
     enforcement agencies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2433. An act to direct the Under Secretary of Homeland 
     Security for Intelligence and Analysis to develop and 
     disseminate a threat assessment regarding terrorist use of 
     virtual currency; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2442. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require an annual report on the Office for State and 
     Local Law Enforcement; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2443. An act to require an inventory of all facilities 
     certified by the Department of Homeland Security to host 
     infrastructure or systems classified above the Secret level, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2453. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish the Intelligence Rotational Assignment 
     Program in the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2454. An act to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to establish a data framework to provide access for 
     appropriate personnel to law enforcement and other 
     information of the Department, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2468. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish a homeland intelligence doctrine for the 
     Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2470. An act to require an annual homeland threat 
     assessment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2471. An act to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to share with State, local, and regional fusion 
     centers release information from a Federal correctional 
     facility, including name, charging date, and expected place 
     and date of release, of certain individuals who may pose a 
     terrorist threat, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



