

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7236-H7237]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     PATHWAYS TO IMPROVING HOMELAND SECURITY AT THE LOCAL LEVEL ACT

  Mr. GALLAGHER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2427) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002, to direct 
the Assistant Secretary for State and Local Law Enforcement to produce 
and disseminate an annual catalog on Department of Homeland Security 
training, publications, programs, and services for State, local, and 
tribal law enforcement agencies, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows

                               H.R. 2427

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Pathways to Improving 
     Homeland Security At the Local Level Act''.

     SEC. 2. ANNUAL CATALOG ON DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY 
                   TRAINING, PUBLICATIONS, PROGRAMS, AND SERVICES 
                   FOR STATE, LOCAL, AND TRIBAL LAW ENFORCEMENT 
                   AGENCIES.

       Section 2006(b)(4) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
     U.S.C. 607(b)(4)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(G) produce an annual catalog that summarizes 
     opportunities for training, publications, programs, and 
     services available to State, local, and tribal law 
     enforcement agencies from the Department and from each 
     component and office within the Department and, not later 
     than 30 days after the date of such production, disseminate 
     the catalog, including by--
       ``(i) making such catalog available to State, local, and 
     tribal law enforcement agencies, including by posting the 
     catalog on the website of the Department and cooperating with 
     national organizations that represent such agencies;
       ``(ii) making such catalog available through the Homeland 
     Security Information Network; and
       ``(iii) submitting such catalog to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the Senate.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Gallagher) and the gentlewoman from California (Ms. 
Barragan) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Wisconsin.


                             General Leave

  Mr. GALLAGHER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous materials on the bill under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Wisconsin?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GALLAGHER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the Pathways to Improving Homeland Security at the Local 
Level Act, sponsored by the gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. Demings), 
ensures that State and local law enforcement will continue to receive 
valuable information on DHS resources and programs available to law 
enforcement.
  The bill requires the Office for State and Local Law Enforcement to 
produce and disseminate an annual catalog that summarizes opportunities 
for training, publications, programs, and services available to non-
Federal law enforcement agencies from the Department of Homeland 
Security, and to disseminate the catalog to State and local law 
enforcement entities within 30 days of production.
  This also requires DHS to share the catalog through the Homeland 
Security Information Network. By requiring the Office to share this 
catalog through this existing information sharing platform, it will 
expand the number of State and local law enforcement partners who 
receive it.
  This bill is a commonsense measure focused on increasing transparency 
on DHS tools and resources available to State and local law 
enforcement.
  I commend the gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. Demings) for her work on 
this measure. She is unable to be present today because of Hurricane 
Irma. Our thoughts and prayers are with her, her district, and the 
State of Florida as recovery efforts continue.
  On behalf of the Committee on Homeland Security, I want to express 
our appreciation to the Judiciary Committee for working with us to move 
this measure.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the measure, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.

                                         House of Representatives,


                                   Committee on the Judiciary,

                                Washington, DC, September 5, 2017.
     Hon. Michael T. McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman McCaul: I write with respect to H.R. 2427, 
     the ``Pathways to Improving Homeland Security at the Local 
     Level Act.'' As a result of your having consulted with us on 
     provisions within H.R. 2427 that fall within the Rule X 
     jurisdiction of the Committee on the Judiciary, I forego any 
     further consideration of this bill so that it may proceed 
     expeditiously to the House floor for consideration.
       The Judiciary Committee takes this action with our mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 2427 at 
     this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction over subject 
     matter contained in this or similar legislation and that our 
     committee will be appropriately consulted and involved as 
     this bill or similar legislation moves forward so that we may 
     address any remaining issues in our jurisdiction. Our 
     committee also reserves the right to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees to any (House-Senate 
     conference involving this or similar legislation and asks 
     that you support any such request.
       I would appreciate a response to this letter confirming 
     this understanding with respect to H.R. 2427 and would ask 
     that a copy of our exchange of letters on this matter be 
     included in the Congressional Record during floor 
     consideration of this bill.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Homeland Security,

                                Washington, DC, September 6, 2017.
     Hon. Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Goodlatte: Thank you for your letter 
     regarding H.R. 2427, the ``Pathways to Improving Homeland 
     Security at the Local Level Act.'' I appreciate your support 
     in bringing this legislation before the House of 
     Representatives, and accordingly, understand that the 
     Committee on the Judiciary will forego further consideration 
     of the bill.
       The Committee on Homeland Security concurs with the mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration of this bill at 
     this time, the Judiciary does not waive any jurisdiction over 
     the subject matter contained in this bill or similar 
     legislation in the future. In addition, should a conference 
     on this bill be necessary, I would support your request to 
     have the Committee on the Judiciary represented on the 
     conference committee.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during consideration of this bill on the House floor. 
     I thank you for your cooperation in this matter.
           Sincerely,
                                                Michael T. McCaul,
                         Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security.

  Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2427, Pathways to Improving 
Homeland Security at the Local Level Act.
  Sixteen years ago, the terrorist attacks of September 11 brought home 
the reality that terrorism prevention and preparedness is a shared 
Federal, State, and local responsibility.

[[Page H7237]]

  Today, the Department of Homeland Security's training catalog is a 
primary resource for State and local jurisdictions to find 
opportunities to enhance their counterterrorism and preparedness 
capabilities. H.R. 2427 seeks to ensure that, going forward, this vital 
resource remains available to the first responder community.
  Specifically, H.R. 2427 directs DHS' Office for State and Local Law 
Enforcement to produce and distribute an annual catalog of DHS' 
training, programs, and services for State, local, and tribal law 
enforcement.
  Further, to ensure that this information is shared throughout the law 
enforcement community, the Pathways to Improving Homeland Security at 
the Local Level Act requires this comprehensive catalog be posted on 
the DHS website, as well as on the Homeland Security Information 
Network.
  My district is home to the Coast Guard, DHS personnel, and officials 
from the Port of Los Angeles, who all have to work together to prepare 
and respond to threats. This bill would provide the information they 
need to work together and get the necessary training.
  This measure, which was introduced by my Democratic colleague on the 
Homeland Security Committee, Representative Val Demings, highlights the 
importance of equipping law enforcement with necessary tools so that 
they can quickly adapt and discover new ways to evolve with the current 
terrorist threat landscape.
  Enactment of this bill will further strengthen the Department's 
partnership with State and local law enforcement to help protect the 
homeland.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2427 is an important piece of legislation that has 
strong support on both sides of the aisle.
  Consideration of this measure today is particularly timely, as this 
week we remember those who sacrificed their lives and ran toward danger 
during the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil. We owe it to their 
memory and to the men and women that today stand on the front lines to 
ensure that they have access to the training and tools they need to 
keep their communities secure.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 2427, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GALLAGHER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Once again, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2427 to ensure that 
State and local law enforcement continue to receive valuable 
information on the Department of Homeland Security's services and 
resources.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the House 
Committee on Homeland Security, I rise in support of H.R. 2427, 
Pathways to Improving Homeland Security At the Local Level Act.
  This bipartisan bill would amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002, 
to direct the Assistant Secretary for State and Local Law Enforcement 
to produce and disseminate an annual catalog on Department of Homeland 
Security training, publications, programs, and services for State, 
local, and tribal law enforcement agencies, and for other purposes.
  The coordination program under the measure would include:
  1. Producing an annual catalog that summarizes opportunities for 
training, publications, programs, and services available to State, 
local, and tribal law enforcement agencies from the Department and from 
each component and office within the Department;
  2. Making such catalog available to State, local, and tribal law 
enforcement agencies, including by posting the catalog on the website 
of the Department and cooperating with national organizations that 
represent such agencies;
  3. Making such catalog available through the Homeland Security 
Information Network; and
  4. Submitting such catalog to the Committee on Homeland Security of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
  It is important to ensure our first responders and local law 
enforcement agencies are trained in homeland security programs, 
especially in times of natural disasters such as Hurricane Harvey and 
Hurricane Irma.
  During relief efforts after Hurricane Harvey and the widespread 
flooding in Houston, Sgt. Steve Perez of the Houston Police Department 
drowned after his patrol car got stuck on a flooded road. His death 
could have been prevented if first responders were given proper 
materials and training on how to manage crisis situations in rising 
flood water.
  Currently, we fail to provide proper training for catastrophic flood 
events that would ensure greater safety of both citizens and first 
responders.
  Programs and materials need to be created in order to train our 
responders in handling wide-spread flooding that simulate dangerous 
situations that could be encountered in their day-to-day life.
  Over the past three years, Houston has experienced record-breaking 
flooding. If first responders were provided with proper tools and 
trainings in handling rescues in these conditions, we would see less of 
loss of life among both citizens and responders.
  The most chaotic times for first responders are in response to 
natural disasters, and it is important to ensure that our nation is 
protected when we are the most vulnerable.
  During Hurricane Harvey and the flooding that followed, if there were 
to have been a homeland security incident, Texas would have been left 
susceptible due to the chaos surrounding our first responders.
  It is important to equip our first responders with every opportunity 
for training in homeland security to ensure that in times of natural 
disaster such as Hurricane Harvey and the flooding across Southeast 
Texas, they are prepared to handle any situation they may face, with 
the smallest amount of lives lost as possible.
  The bill would produce an annual catalog with training opportunities 
and other services available to state, local, and tribal law 
enforcement agencies, which I wish to ensure address catastrophic flood 
events.
  The department's Office for State and Local Law Enforcement would 
have to publish the catalogs on the DHS website within 30 days of 
production and distribute them through the Homeland Security 
Information Network (HSIN).
  Sharing the catalog on the HSIN would allow the office to reach as 
many stakeholders as possible.
  Through this catalog, local law enforcement agencies would be able to 
ensure their first responders are aware of training programs over 
counterterrorism and homeland security.
  It is vital to provide these resources to local law enforcement 
agencies in order to ensure they are aware of opportunities for their 
first responders, so they are trained to protect the United States and 
its citizens when it is most vulnerable.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 2427.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Gallagher) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2427, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



