

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6766]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                 REMEMBERING FREDERICK AND AMY CAMPBELL

 Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I rise today to honor two titans of 
military and community service, who will be laid to rest forever in 
Arlington National Cemetery.
  Frederick Hollister Campbell and Amy Strohm Campbell were, together, 
a force to be reckoned with.
  Fred served the United States in the Marine Corps during World War 
II, the Korean war and the Vietnam war--one of only 46,000 Americans to 
fight in three wars. Fred was a member of the American Legion Post 27 
in Missoula, MT.
  Amy earned a master's degree and began a teaching career during a 
time when few women did either. She became active in the Navy-Marine 
Corps Wives, Daughters of the American Revolution, and the 
Philanthropic Educational Organization and was a life member of both 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars and American Legion Auxiliaries.
  At the Battle of Iwo Jima, Fred dug trenches while taking heavy 
Japanese fire from the mountains above. His bravery saved the lives of 
250 of his fellow marines and earned him the Navy Commendation Medal. 
He fought in the Battle of Okinawa and was a part of the reconstruction 
effort in Japan after the war ended. Fred picked up the language and 
enjoyed friendships with the locals, spurred on by a shared love of 
stamp collecting.
  During law school, Fred was selected for officer's candidate school. 
His transition from private to officer earned him the informal title of 
a mustang in military circles. Fred reenlisted for Active Duty to serve 
in the Korean war.
  It was during this period of service that he met Amy on a blind date 
at a square dance.
  They danced through life together for 61 years. The life they built 
brought them a treasured daughter, Susan, and many trips to Europe and 
one voyage through the Panama Canal.
  Fred continued his career as an attorney for the Marine Corps, and 
his service culminated with a third enlistment during which he served 
in Vietnam. He retired from the U.S. Marines as a lieutenant colonel 
after 25 years, 2 months, and 17 days. Amy and Susan were able to fill 
a large shadowbox of Fred's medals as a gift for his 85th birthday.
  Fred and Amy didn't slow down once they hit retirement. Fred earned a 
Ph.D. in American history at the age of 73. He taught at Colorado 
College and the University of Colorado for 13 years. Amy continued her 
involvement in service and military organizations in Colorado, Montana, 
and California.
  Fred and Amy enriched the lives of friends, family, and strangers 
alike. Now, they will rest forever in Arlington near the statue 
commemorating the battle of Iwo Jima, where Fred proved his mettle by 
saving 250 fellow marines' lives 72 years ago.
  It is my honor to present their story today.
  On behalf of a grateful nation, I commend Lt. Col. Frederick 
Hollister Campbell and Amy Strohm Campbell for their lives of service 
to our Nation.

                          ____________________



