

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8153]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            TAX REFORM BILL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, last night, the United States 
accomplished something really remarkable. After years of work, dozens 
of hearings, and an open process, we passed a historic overhaul of the 
Nation's Tax Code. It will deliver real relief to families and small 
businesses all across our country. We passed tax reform to spur the 
American economy, to encourage job creation and grow economic 
opportunity, to bring jobs and investment home, and to put more money 
into the pockets of hard-working men and women whom we represent. We 
voted to repeal ObamaCare's individual mandate tax so that low- and 
middle-income families are not forced to purchase something they either 
don't want or can't afford. We voted to responsibly develop more of 
Alaska's oil and gas potential, strengthening our economy and our 
national security in the process.
  I would like to commend my colleagues in the Senate for their work to 
pass these historic reforms and bring our Tax Code into the 21st 
century.
  I want to extend special thanks to Senate Finance Committee Chairman 
Orrin Hatch, a skilled legislator whose expertise was essential to 
shepherding this legislation through a challenging process while faced 
with complete and total obstruction.
  I thank Chairman Mike Enzi for his assistance and Chairman Lisa 
Murkowski and Senator Dan Sullivan, who worked tirelessly to bring the 
people of Alaska a victory on energy exploration for which they have 
been waiting for almost 40 years.
  I am grateful to the other Senate conferees--Senators Cornyn, Thune, 
Portman, Scott, and Toomey--who worked day and night to get this 
legislation across the finish line.
  And of course, in addition to Senator Hatch, his colleagues on the 
Senate Finance Committee deserve our gratitude as well: Senators Burr, 
Cassidy, Crapo, Grassley, Heller, Isakson, and Roberts. This could not 
have happened without all of them.
  Of course, a great deal of credit goes to President Trump, Vice 
President Pence, and their dedicated White House team. Their efforts 
were absolutely essential to this process, and we are proud to have 
worked together to deliver on a key part of the President's agenda.
  It goes without saying that tax reform would have been impossible 
without Speaker Ryan, Chairman Brady, and the Members of the House who 
share our commitment to make taxes lower, simpler, and fairer. I am 
proud to call them my colleagues.
  When the final version of this historic law passes the House later 
today, it will await the President's signature. Then, families and 
small businesses--like so many in my home State of Kentucky--can begin 
to enjoy the benefits. Our constituents called out for relief from the 
Obama economy, and Congress delivered

                          ____________________



