

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8149]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 2246. A bill to designate the health care center of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs in Tallahassee, Florida, as 
     the Sergeant Ernest I. ``Boots'' Thomas VA Clinic, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 2247. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for a consistent eligibility date for provision of 
     Department of Veterans Affairs memorial headstones and 
     markers for eligible spouses and dependent children of 
     veterans whose remains are unavailable, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Heller, and Mr. Udall):
       S. 2248. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide 
     certain burial benefits for spouses and children of veterans 
     who are buried in tribal cemeteries, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 2249. A bill to permanently reauthorize the Rio Puerco 
     Management Committee and the Rio Puerco Watershed Management 
     Program; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Booker, and Mrs. 
             Feinstein):
       S. 2250. A bill to ensure due process protections of 
     individuals in the United States against unlawful detention 
     based solely on a protected characteristic; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 2251. A bill to require the United States Postal Service 
     to designate a single, unique ZIP code for Swanzey, New 
     Hampshire; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 2252. A bill to amend the Animal Health Protection Act 
     to support State and Tribal efforts to develop and implement 
     management strategies to address chronic wasting disease 
     among deer, elk, and moose populations, to support research 
     regarding the causes of chronic wasting disease and methods 
     to control the further spread of the disease, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Ms. Warren, and Mr. 
             Markey):
       S. 2253. A bill to amend title XXI of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure access to mental health services for children 
     under the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Booker, Mr. Cardin, 
             Mrs. Murray, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. 
             Harris, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 2254. A bill to prevent unfair double taxation by 
     ensuring that the deduction for State and local taxes is not 
     reduced, suspended, or eliminated; to the Committee on 
     Finance.

                          ____________________



