

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7849]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, at 
10 a.m. to conduct a hearing on S.2155 ``The Economic Growth, 
Regulatory Relief and Consumer Act'' and the nomination of Jerome H. 
Powell, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, at 10 
a.m. in room SD-366 to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: 
Timothy R. Petty, of Indiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of the 
Interior, and Linda Capuano, of Texas, to be Administrator of the 
Energy Information Administration, Department of Energy.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a business meeting and hearing on the following nominations: 
nominations of Eric M. Ueland, of Oregon, to be an Under Secretary 
(Management), and James Randolph Evans, of Georgia, to be Ambassador to 
Luxembourg, both of the Department of State.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``The President, Congress, and Shared 
Authority''.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Cost of 
Prescription Drugs: An examination of the National Academies of 
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine Report `Making Medicines 
Affordable: A National Imperative' ''.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing on the following 
nominations: Kenneth L. Marcus, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary 
for Civil Rights, and Johnny Collett, of Kentucky, to be Assistant 
Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, both of 
the Department of Education, and Scott A. Mugno, of Pennsylvania, to be 
an Assistant Secretary, and William Beach, of Kansas, to be 
Commissioner of Labor Statistics, both of the Department of Labor.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, at 3 p.m., in room 
SH-219 to hold a closed hearing.


                         Subcommittee on Energy

  The Subcommittee on Energy of the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Tuesday, December 5, 2017, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing.

                          ____________________



