

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7984]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       MASS SHOOTING IN LAS VEGAS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Nevada (Mr. Kihuen) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. KIHUEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the tragedy that 
happened in my home town of Las Vegas last Sunday, October 1.
  Last week, a horrific mass shooting took place in the community that 
I grew up in. Immediately when I heard the news on Sunday night, like 
so many people, I felt helpless, and I rushed to the hospital to see 
how I could help.
  This shooting was the deadliest in modern U.S. history: 58 innocent 
people have died, and over 500 were injured.
  The 58 innocent victims came from all walks of life. They came to Las 
Vegas from all over the United States of America. Some were there to 
celebrate their birthdays, their favorite country singer, a night out 
with friends and family, and even celebrating their wedding 
anniversaries.

                              {time}  1100

  Even though these families will never get another Christmas, another 
Thanksgiving, or another birthday with their loved one, they will never 
forget them, and we won't either.
  As we grieve for those who were killed or injured, and pray for their 
families, I want to recognize the heroes who bravely and selflessly 
rushed to help: law enforcement officers and first responders, 
including some who were off duty and attending the concert, who ran 
toward the gunfire to protect the concertgoers and provide desperately 
needed care for victims; people at the concert who shielded those 
around them, gave them medical care, and led others to safety, exposing 
themselves to the hail of bullets while they tried to save others; 
people driving by who used their cars to help take shooting victims to 
the hospitals; strangers helping strangers; the healthcare 
professionals, doctors, nurses, support staff, and volunteers who have 
been working tirelessly around the clock to care for the more than 500 
injured people; hospitality industry employees, who rushed to help 
however they could; and the Las Vegas businesses and residents, who 
have generously donated their money, time, and blood to help the 
victims.
  To all of these heroes, I say: Thank you. Thank you so much.
  Over the coming days and weeks, I plan to speak on this floor about 
each individual victim to honor their life and to tell their story. I 
will also be speaking out about what Congress needs to do to prevent 
another tragedy like this from happening.
  We should never forget the victims of October 1, 2017, but as we 
embark on the long process of healing, I am forever grateful for the 
incredible heart and spirit shown by the Las Vegas community. I have 
never been prouder to be a Las Vegan, and I have never been prouder to 
be a Nevadan, and I know that my city is and will always be Vegas 
Strong.

                          ____________________



