

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6919-S6920]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                TRIBUTE TO CHIEF ROBERT ``BOB'' JENKINS

 Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, today I would like to recognize 
retired Fire Chief Robert ``Bob'' Jenkins for 55 years of exemplary 
service to his community and to Vermont. We are fortunate to have such 
a dedicated public servant as Chief Jenkins in our State,

[[Page S6920]]

and I sincerely thank him and his family for everything they have done 
for the people of Vermont.
  Bob Jenkins joined the Vergennes Fire Department in 1962, following 
in the footsteps of his father, George Jenkins. After serving for 5 
years in Vergennes, Bob helped establish the New Haven Volunteer Fire 
Department in 1967, which became part of the Addison County 
Firefighters Association Mutual Aid system the following year. For five 
decades, Bob continued to work with the New Haven Fire Department with 
training and guidance, whenever needed. On May 6, 2017, at the 
department's 50th anniversary, Bob was presented with an honorary 
membership. This follows the honorary membership he received from the 
Vergennes Fire Department in 1982.
  Bob joined the Ferrisburgh Volunteer Fire Department in 1968, where 
he was soon promoted to the rank of captain. In 1970, recognizing his 
dedication and leadership, the department elected him chief, a position 
he held for 19 years. Bob remained very active after stepping down as 
chief, spending countless hours working with successive chiefs, passing 
on knowledge and expertise to help maintain a professional and highly 
trained department with well-maintained equipment. His service was 
deservedly recognized this past summer, when the Ferrisburgh Fire 
Department took delivery of a brand-new frontline engine and dedicated 
it in honor of Chief Jenkins.
  Bob has been a mentor to many other chiefs and firefighters 
throughout Addison County, as well as the State of Vermont. He served 
on numerous committees of the Addison County Firefighters Association, 
including Sergeant at Arms at the annual business meeting and awards 
banquet. He was presented with life membership to the association in 
1993. He also served for many years as an instructor for the annual 
Addison County Regional Fire School, which draws firefighters from 
around Vermont, New York, and Canada. In 1994, the 24th Annual Regional 
Fire School was dedicated to Bob for his commitment to the training 
program.
  Bob also served as an instructor for the Vermont State Firefighters' 
Association and is a charter member of the Vermont Fire Academy 
training center in Pittsford. He is passionate about teaching young 
firefighters all aspects of the fire service, from today's firefighting 
skills to department history. His expertise in building construction 
has been particularly important during training and has helped keep 
many Vermont firefighters safe during fire calls. He also teaches 
respect for what firefighters do, for fellow members, for leadership, 
and for our communities. In return, he has gained the respect of his 
fellow firefighters for his willingness to share his time and 
knowledge.
  Bob's community service does not stop with firefighting. He has 
served the town of Ferrisburgh in many different ways, including 
overseeing construction of a new firestation in 1993, overseeing the 
construction of a new town highway facility in 2015 to 2016, and 
serving on the town select board, as well as projects for the North 
Ferrisburgh Methodist Church.
  The bottom line is that Bob Jenkins has unselfishly protected and 
served his community for 55 years. He is a model for what leadership is 
about. We must keep in mind that Bob did not do this alone. He had the 
commitment and understanding of his wife of 52 years, Mary Jane; his 
daughter, Robin; his son, Chris; and his stepsons, Tim, Mark, and 
Ricky--even when Bob spent time away from home, missing family dinners, 
family outings, birthdays, holidays, and school events.
  I will finish with some words from New Haven Assistant Chief Dean 
Gilmore: ``If you add Bob's love for his family, his love for his 
community, and his love for his fellow firefighters; his family's love 
for him, and his fellow firefighters; his fellow firefighters' love for 
him and his family; his community's love for him, his family, and his 
fellow firefighters; we have one powerful feeling in our hearts that is 
everlasting.''

                          ____________________



