

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4819]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to executive session for the en bloc consideration of the 
following nominations: Executive Calendar Nos. 101 and 102.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The legislative clerk read the nominations of Neil Chatterjee, of 
Kentucky, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
for the term expiring June 30, 2021; and Robert F. Powelson, of 
Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2020.
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; that any 
statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record; and 
that the Senate then resume legislative session.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Chatterjee 
and Powelson nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.
  Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I want to take just a moment and thank 
those who have worked so hard to make sure that the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission will have a functioning quorum--and more than 
just having a functioning quorum, the quality of individuals we are 
sending to the FERC as Commissioners is truly impressive to see.
  Neil Chatterjee, whom, without doubt, almost all of us on this floor 
know, has been working here in the Senate, working in the leader's 
office for years, and has been an invaluable asset to me and my staff 
on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. He is extremely 
knowledgeable, extremely committed and dedicated, and it has been a 
real pleasure to work with him.
  I don't know Mr. Powelson as well, but having had an opportunity to 
advance his name before the Energy and Natural Resources Committee for 
confirmation, too, I know that the expertise and the credentials he 
will bring to the Commission are greatly appreciated.
  I think we recognize that there is much we are anxious to see happen 
throughout the country in a new administration where we are talking a 
lot about infrastructure--when we are talking about our energy assets 
and what we can do to help facilitate the build-out of an aging 
infrastructure and the add-on of new infrastructure. But in order to 
proceed with much of this, you have to have the FERC actually 
operating, working to review the permits, working through the rate-
making cases. It is substantive work, it is challenging work, and it is 
work that has now been stacked up for months and months. So knowing 
that the FERC will be able to commence its operations again with a 
quorum is really good news today.
  I think it is also important to note that the White House sent just 
this week two additional names--those of Mr. Glick and Mr. McIntyre. 
The Energy and Natural Resources Committee will be considering those in 
early September when we return so that, hopefully, we can get a full 
complement to this very important Commission.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, Richard Glick and Kevin McIntyre have 
been nominated by the President for positions on the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission. I understand they will be heard and marked up in 
tandem in September and I have told the Democratic leader that they 
will move as a pair across the floor.

                          ____________________



