

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 157 (Monday, October 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7670-H7671]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. GRIJALVA:
       H.R. 3894. A bill to protect grizzly bear populations, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of 
             New Mexico):
       H.R. 3895. A bill to promote the use of smart technologies 
     and systems in communities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, Education and 
     the Workforce, and Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Tonko, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, and Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois):
       H.R. 3896. A bill to require certain entities who collect 
     and maintain personal information of individuals to secure 
     such information and to provide notice to such individuals in 
     the case of a breach of security involving such information, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. Russell, Mr. Mast, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Ms. McSally, and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 3897. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for the issuance of the Gold Star Installation Access 
     Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, and other 
     next of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while 
     serving on certain active or reserve duty, to ensure that a 
     remarried surviving spouse with dependent children of the 
     deceased member remains eligible for installation benefits to 
     which the surviving spouse was previously eligible, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. Hollingsworth, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Hill, and Mr. Vargas):

[[Page H7671]]

  

       H.R. 3898. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to place conditions on certain accounts at United States 
     financial institutions with respect to North Korea, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. HOLDING (for himself, Mr. Pittenger, and Mr. 
             Hudson):
       H.R. 3899. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     redefine the eastern and middle judicial districts of North 
     Carolina; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FLORES (for himself and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 3900. A bill to amend section 510 of the Social 
     Security Act regarding a youth empowerment program; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself and Mr. Smucker):
       H.R. 3901. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish the Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing 
     Transportation (SMART) Challenge Grant Program to promote 
     technological innovation in our Nation's cities; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan (for himself and Mr. Neal):
       H.R. 3902. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a credit to small employers providing an 
     eligible automatic contribution arrangement under a 
     retirement savings plan; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself and Mr. Meeks):
       H.R. 3903. A bill to amend the Securities Act of 1933 to 
     expand the ability to use testing the waters and confidential 
     draft registration submissions, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 3904. A bill to direct the Federal Trade Commission to 
     prescribe rules that require covered entities to secure 
     sensitive personally identifiable information against a 
     security breach; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Mr. Peterson, and Mr. Lewis 
             of Minnesota):
       H.R. 3905. A bill to require congressional approval of any 
     mineral withdrawal or monument designation involving the 
     National Forest System lands in the State of Minnesota, to 
     provide for the renewal of certain mineral leases in such 
     lands, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. HECK (for himself, Mr. Katko, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Norton, Mr. Connolly, 
             Ms. Moore, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Mr. Cleaver, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 3906. A bill to establish centers of excellence for 
     innovative stormwater control infrastructure, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LaMALFA (for himself, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. 
             DeGette, and Mr. Gianforte):
       H.R. 3907. A bill to require the Director of the Office of 
     Personnel Management to create a classification that more 
     accurately reflects the vital role of wildland firefighters; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 3908. A bill to authorize the Attorney General to 
     award grants to eligible entities to prevent or alleviate 
     community violence by providing education, mentoring, and 
     counseling services to children, adolescents, teachers, 
     families, and community leaders on the principles and 
     practice of nonviolence; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 3909. A bill to authorize the Gandhi-King Scholarly 
     Exchange Initiative focusing on peace and nonviolence in 
     global conflict resolution, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. NEAL (for himself and Mr. Bishop of Michigan):
       H.R. 3910. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make lifetime income and managed account options of 
     defined contribution retirement savings plans portable; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself and Mr. Foster):
       H.R. 3911. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 with respect to risk-based examinations of Nationally 
     Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, and Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York):
       H.R. 3912. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for Move America bonds and Move America 
     credits; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Evans, Ms. Barragan, 
             Ms. Norton, Ms. Lee, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Raskin, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Serrano, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Gutierrez, and Mr. Huffman):
       H. Res. 549. A resolution supporting the understanding that 
     climate change is real; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Ms. Speier, Ms. Kuster of 
             New Hampshire, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mrs. Mimi Walters 
             of California, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and Mr. Donovan):
       H. Res. 550. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the need for State legislatures 
     to pass comprehensive sexual assault kit reforms by 2020; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             McGovern, and Ms. Judy Chu of California):
       H. Res. 551. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of the International Day of Non-Violence; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. PAYNE:
       H. Res. 552. A resolution reaffirming the United States-
     Liberia partnership, and calling for free, fair, and peaceful 
     elections in Liberia in October 2017; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



