

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8438-H8440]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1945
                           ISSUES OF CONCERN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from California 
(Mr. Rohrabacher) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, our American way of life and our Judeo-
Christian values are under attack as never before. People understand 
that there is the threat out there, but perhaps the magnitude keeps 
coming home of how bad and what a great threat it really is.
  Radical Islamic terrorists with a backward, evil, 7th century view of 
the world are out to destroy and kill us. They seek to terrorize 
Western countries and Americans, in particular, into retreat.
  Well, instead, we must stand tall. We must have the courage to do 
what is necessary because it does depend on us, as it always has been. 
As when Nazism and Japanese militarism threatened the world, it was the 
United States that carried the day for the decent people of the world.
  When communism threatened to establish atheistic dictatorships 
throughout the world and was on the march, yes, it was the American 
people who stood strong and had those policies necessary to hold off 
the communist menace until it collapsed, basically, of its own 
inconsistencies and its own evil nature.
  Well, we had great leadership at those other battles, and I say, 
thank goodness that today we now have a President who actually can 
speak the words against and condemn this horrible force that threatens 
our country and the people of the world.
  Yes, we have a President who can actually say those words, ``radical 
Islamic terrorism.'' For 8 years, we had a President who couldn't use 
those words, much less do those things that were necessary to defeat 
this threat and to make sure our people were secure.
  Some, if not many, of our leaders have been afraid to confront the 
basic nature of those who have made repeated terrorist attacks and 
assaults. Anyone who is not signing on to their fanatical religious 
agenda becomes a terrorist target, not only Christians, but Jews and 
other Muslims.
  President Trump is, at long last, providing the courageous leadership 
in this historic battle. Congress needs to support our President. We 
need to stand with him and to stand united against this evil, and yes, 
defend ourselves. We must not be afraid, and we must not only defend 
ourselves but also do what is necessary to defeat and extinguish this 
ghoulish adversary and end his bloody assault on Western civilization, 
and yes, on moderate Islam.
  Words are not enough. Our homeland is under attack; people are in 
danger; our families, our country, and our way of life are under 
attack. These attackers come from many countries, both men and women. 
But in common--these people who have been murdering people and the 
mayhem they have been creating throughout the Western world, whether it 
is in France or in the United States or elsewhere, these men and women 
who participate in these evil acts of terrorism have something that 
they have in common. They all pledge allegiance to radical Islam.
  That is our enemy, not Islam, not Islam itself, but the radical 
fanaticism that terrorists and the Islamic psychopaths that are out 
there murdering in the worst possible and ghoulish ways, people, in 
order to--yes, in order to have--to shock us and in order to intimidate 
the West into retreat.
  This week, a 29-year-old Uzbek immigrant plowed a truck into people 
walking and cycling in a New York City pathway. He killed 8 people, and 
he proclaimed that he was inspired by Islam. In fact, he said he was 
proud of what he had done and even requested the display of his Islamic 
state flag in his hospital room.
  We need to ask ourselves: Why are we allowing Islamic terrorists like 
this into our country in the first place? How much longer will we close 
our eyes and bury our heads in the sand?
  We have even witnessed horrendous terrorist attacks even in my home 
State. We know that. We have seen it. On December 2, 2015, in San 
Bernardino, 14 innocent and wonderful people were brutally slaughtered 
and 22 seriously injured by an immigrant from Pakistan--a hotbed of 
radicalism. And yes, his motive was his fanatic belief in what he 
considers to be Islam. It was truly one of the most evil attacks in our 
State's history.
  In Orlando, on June 12, 2016, 49 nightclubbers out having a good 
time, enjoying themselves as Americans--life, liberty, and the pursuit 
of happiness--they were having a good time, and 49 of these 
nightclubbers were brutally murdered and mowed down.
  All of these innocent lives were slaughtered. Americans who were 
blown apart at the Boston marathon is no different.
  We have American victims staring us in the face saying: What are you 
going to do to bring justice and to protect the Americans that we left 
behind, our families? These horrific crimes of cowards mirrors what has 
happened to innocent people throughout the world.
  Yes, we Americans are suffering. And as I say, we have seen it in 
France, we have seen it in Europe, we have seen it in Muslim countries 
where these fanatics take Christians out and behead them. But they 
also, of course, attack moderate Muslims. They are out to try to topple 
the government of el-Sisi and Egypt and all the other governments there 
that are not committed to the fanatic view of Islam that they hold.
  The most recent attacks in New York should, at least, open our eyes 
to things that we can do here. Maybe we can't stop it all over the 
world, but the least we can do is to take steps to protect our own 
citizens from this type of fanatical threat that hangs over us.
  Well, we need to take specific steps that can and should be done to 
help deal with this danger. I have, in fact, discussed a plan with the 
President--and this is a few months ago--and we have had a lot of work 
and a lot of things under the bridge since then, but his commitment to 
border security includes placing a wall on the Southern border.
  Yes, making sure that we have border security, and yes, if it takes a 
wall on our Southern border, the President is right on target. A wall 
and beefing up our border will, of course, be expensive. That is why I 
laid out a plan to the President and have since offered legislation 
that would pay for President Trump's proposed border wall.

  The car attack in New York has altered many Americans and alerted 
many Americans to something they didn't know about before, and that is 
that we have an immigration system, an immigration law that permits 
50,000 people to immigrate into our country every year--50,000 people 
who are chosen by lottery, not by some really looking at them, some 
examination of their credentials, seeing what they could contribute, 
no. A lottery.
  And, of course, Senator Schumer in the Senate, I guess, was the man 
who actually insisted on this. Well, I am sure he was well-intended, 
but what we have now are people--instead of bringing in the people who 
can most contribute to our country, he has insisted we leave 50,000 of 
them up to a lottery system.

[[Page H8439]]

  This is insanity. It is forced onto us and has been forced into 
policy by liberal left politicians who would flood our country with 
illegals, which is something they are doing besides just this threat 
that we are talking about, because these people who win the lottery, of 
course, are not coming here illegally.
  At the same time, the same people who are pushing that type of system 
are pushing for policies that would flood our country with illegals and 
has flooded our country with illegals, that has brought down our 
healthcare system, our education system. We brought criminals into our 
country, and we have had an uncontrolled border.
  Yes, the people who are responsible for that have also been 
responsible for policy that just permitted 50,000 people legally to 
come here; and those 50,000 people are people not selected by a 
rational process but instead by a lottery.
  The terrorist murderers in New York, of course, were here. That 
terrorist murderer, and maybe murderers, they were here on the lottery 
visa. They weren't here because they had been selected. In fact, the 
lottery selected this Uzbeki fanatic Muslim, and he didn't have the 
skills and the education necessary to live a decent life, and he ended 
up killing a lot of people in New York. Surprise, surprise.
  We should know about these people who are coming into our country, 
period, whether those people are coming illegally. We have had millions 
of people pouring into our country illegally, and then what do our 
liberal left politicians on the other side say? ``Oh, we need sanctuary 
cities to protect them, the ones who are here illegally and have come 
here illegally,'' which, of course, does nothing but encourage more 
people to come here illegally. And the more who are here illegally are 
people who we don't know what they are all about.
  Do you think the fanatic Islamic terrorists that I am referring to 
today didn't notice that our border was porous and that people were 
pouring across our border from our Southern border?
  Well, we should know about everybody who is coming into the country, 
and we should choose the very best people who can contribute to our 
country. I have no problem with a very robust legal immigration into 
our country, no problem at all, and neither do the Republicans that I 
know.
  What we have a problem with is a flood of illegals coming in, bidding 
down the wages of our own citizens, some of them criminals attacking 
and killing the citizens like we saw in San Francisco--a young lady who 
was killed by an illegal who had been sent home. But also, even within 
the system that is legal immigrants, we need to know who those people 
are and select the very best people to come here.
  The plan that I offered the President, which will make it easier for 
him to accomplish this mission, is a plan that would take that slot in 
our lottery, 50,000 people who now come in under a lottery like the guy 
who just killed those people in New York, instead, let's use that slot, 
those 50,000 places in our legal immigration system and offer it to 
foreigners who are very wealthy, who can be given the privilege of 
paying $1 million each to come here and eventually become a citizen.
  If we can do that, that $1 million and those 50,000 slots will give 
us all the money we need to build that wall, and it is fitting that we 
build that wall and we secure our borders and beef up our system of 
immigration to protect our citizens, and that we actually have people 
who want to come here and immigrate here pay for that reform.
  We need to implement immigration policies that serve the American 
people. That is what should be first and foremost, not some crazy 
notion that we are going to, oh, build--get some kind of better spirit 
by opening up the immigration into our country to anybody who can get 
here, and let's let a lottery decide, let's not do it rationally. No.
  We need to make sure everybody who comes here is going to contribute, 
and they are good people. Unless we can all stand together--and the 
most important thing is they are coming here because they want to be 
Americans, like almost all the legal immigrants who come here, people 
who want to be Americans, and we will open our arms, as we have, and as 
Republicans who are opposed to illegal immigration have said over and 
over again.
  Well, I have proposed H.R. 2724, and I call on President Trump to pay 
attention to this. I call all of my colleagues to pay attention to 
this. I urge my colleagues to take a look at that legislation. That 
will offer us the financial resources we need to bolster our borders, 
to make sure that there is a wall, but, also, to make sure that we are 
not bringing into this country people who are associated with radical 
Islamic fanaticism that would do us harm.
  I am asking my colleagues to look at that legislation. I am asking 
anyone who is reading the Congressional Record or listening to this, 
perhaps, to talk to their Congressman on this issue.
  Now, in the past 2 weeks, we have been provided information on 
another issue that I would like to bring up. Mr. Speaker, may I ask how 
much time I have left.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from California has 16 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  2000

  Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I will try to bring up something that 
we have heard, and we need to discuss this as Americans, because it 
also is about a very major flaw in our system that is apparent, things 
that have been not right for the last 2 years.
  In the past 2 weeks, however, information has been provided to the 
American people that has exposed the hypocrisy and misinformation, 
forced down our throats, for months concerning the allegation that 
President Trump colluded with the Russians in order to steal the last 
election. Over and over again, fake news filled the airwaves and, of 
course, the newspapers, suggesting that there was a sinister plot that 
kept Hillary from becoming President of the United States.
  The core accusation was the Russians had hacked into the Democratic 
National Committee computers. Emails between the Democratic leaders 
were taken and handed over to Julian Assange, who is the head of 
WikiLeaks, and that they were released to the public by WikiLeaks.
  The skulduggery of the Democrat leadership and the Clinton campaign 
was, thus, exposed by these emails. Yes, that exposure to this 
skulduggery and this unconscionable activity between the Clinton 
leadership, and also the Democratic Party leadership, these emails, 
yes, did have an impact on the election, as many Democrats who 
supported Bernie Sanders felt that they had been cheated by their own 
party because the proof was being offered to them by these WikiLeaks 
emails that had been taken from the Democratic National Committee.
  Now, we heard over and over again that Trump stole the election 
because he was in collusion with the Russians. The lib-left media, 
which is most of them, found every which way, any little thing that any 
member of the Trump team did, as sinister proof that there was 
collusion with the Russians, thus, they stole the election. Well, it 
was pounded into our heads month after month, even after the election 
was over.
  But Hillary didn't lose that. That is what we are being told. Hillary 
lost the election. She didn't want us to believe that it was because 
she was a rotten candidate running on a miserable track record and a 
platform that undermined her own candidacy, but, instead, she lost 
because the GOP had subterfuge and treachery in which they were working 
with Russians, who helped them out to accomplish this horrible crime of 
stealing the election.
  Well, this negative media barrage and this continued attack on 
President Trump did not stop when the election was over. It went on for 
months and months. Everybody should remember that. Month after month 
after the election, in what appeared to be, in my point of view, an 
effort to disrupt our new President's authority and to exercise powers 
granted to him by the American voters, that was going to be disrupted, 
so he could not become a regular President of the United States, as our 
election process had determined. Talk about not being loyal to the 
American way of life.
  After months of these obstructionist tactics, the American people are 
now learning the whole truth. They are learning that the attack on 
Trump was

[[Page H8440]]

a total fraud, a power grab by those who lost the election, and an 
attempt to distract the American people from this wrongdoing.
  First and foremost, let's make it clear: the Russians did not hack 
into and steal the Democratic National Committee's emails. In terms of 
the collusion with the Russians, it is now coming to light there are 
far worse things. But the stealing of those emails and then making them 
public--and, by the way, they were just making public honest emails. We 
are not talking about giving the public false information. We are 
talking about giving them information the Democrats didn't want them to 
have.
  But in terms of collusion with the Russians, what is coming to light 
is that the Clinton Foundation--so these other charges that we have 
heard about President Trump may be something to distract us about 
something that was being done that was wrong and, of a similar light, 
that was wrong and being done by Hillary Clinton and her family.
  In terms of collusion with the Russians, it has come to light that 
the Clinton Foundation collected more than or around $150 million from 
Russian oligarchs that Clinton felt was deposited right into the 
Clinton Foundation coffers. These oligarchs then deposited $500,000 
right into the Clinton family's pockets for a speech. Yeah, they are 
going to give them a speaker's fee of $500,000 for one speech. All of 
this was happening when Hillary was Secretary of State. It was also 
happening when our government was making a decision as to whether they 
should sell 20 percent of America's uranium reserves to Russia. Why we 
would never seriously consider that, I don't know.
  But in my research, I have found evidence that, because that did not 
seem right, the FBI had an informant watching all of this go down, 
close up, right there in Russia--an informant. Instead of charging 
Hillary with a crime, which was not done by the FBI, a gag order was 
placed on this witness who was working as an informer for the FBI.
  That gag order at the time, who put it on this witness?
  Well, it was the head of the FBI.
  Who was the head of the FBI?
  Robert Mueller. That gag order was kept on by Mueller, the gag order 
on the informant that had this information about the negotiations for 
contributions to the Clinton fund of $150 million. This guy was kept, 
and a gag order, all of this time, even while Mueller was head of the 
FBI. This is the same Mueller who is now the special prosecutor trying 
to find anything to charge Trump with collusion with the Russians.
  That gag order over the witness implicating Hillary was not lifted 
until last week, when some of us stepped up and said: We have to have a 
public hearing on this and we need to make sure--not a public hearing 
on any type of negative or, let's say, illegal collusion with the 
Russian Government by any American politician, which would have 
included Hillary, of course, and will include Hillary and anybody else 
who colluded with them.

  Yes, I know, that I have advanced the idea of cooperating with the 
Russians, so this may seem out of place. But I have always felt 
whatever we do with the Russians needs to be what is in the interest of 
the people of the United States. Certainly giving away 20 percent of 
America's uranium reserves, and then gagging one of the witnesses to 
the discussions that were taking place at the time when, at the same 
time, oligarchs in Russia were providing the Clintons with $150 million 
donation to their foundation, and a $500,000 donation right into the 
personal pockets of Bill Clinton.
  Now, we need to move forward on this. As we know, the special 
prosecutor, Mr. Mueller, who kept the gag order on this witness, who 
didn't charge Hillary in the beginning, now has found someone to 
indict. Paul Manafort has been indicted.
  Isn't this interesting?
  Our special prosecutor was tasked with trying to see if there was 
Russian collusion in the last election between the Trump people and the 
Russians in order to steal the election. And what did he come up with?
  Basically, tax evasion by Paul Manafort, who is a longtime politico 
in this city.
  And guess what. The tax evasion he is being charged with happened 
long before Paul Manafort had anything to do with Donald Trump. That is 
wrong. That is wrong. There is something really wrong there. We need to 
get a new special prosecutor or whatever. We need to have these 
hearings. Our Republicans need to get tough and we need to make sure 
that we are seeking out this information and documenting it.
  For example, putting the people under oath. There were a group of 
people--policymakers--who made the decision of whether or not to sell 
that uranium to the Russians. They need to be put under oath and asked 
whether or not anyone representing the Clintons ever talked to them 
during that process and encouraged them for this deal of selling the 
Russians this uranium.
  There are all kinds of avenues that we need to follow through on. 
Instead, Mr. Mueller ends up with some kind of a tax violation by one 
of the players that happened long before he was even associated with 
Donald Trump.
  Something has gone haywire here. The American people need to see it. 
Especially when we understand now there is also evidence that during 
that election, the Clinton campaign paid Russian sources--it went 
through an intermediary. He was an English intelligence officer--paid 
millions of dollars to the Russians to get a scurrilous false report 
and video, or tape, or whatever it was, of President Trump in some type 
of compromising situation.
  But we know now that was false and that Hillary Clinton's campaign 
and these people talking about collusion with the Russians were paying, 
essentially, the Russians to give them this information.
  Now, I would hope that this comes out and this becomes something that 
is explained and the American people understand. When they see this 
attack on our President by people who have a totally different view of 
how we should be in the world--remember, our last President could not 
say the words ``radical Islamic terrorist.'' He had a different 
approach than Hillary, the Secretary of State. We know what happened in 
Benghazi and elsewhere. We have a totally different approach to these 
challenges America faces overseas. It is all right.
  President Obama was elected. Hillary was not elected. President Trump 
was elected. These efforts to undermine his authority are the worst 
kind of repudiation of the American way of life and the American system 
of government. We Americans must stand firm against radical Islam. We 
must stand firm and offer an alternative of strength and courage, as 
compared to the cowardice and nonsense that we have seen in the 
policies of the last 8 years.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



