

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7634-H7636]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. McHENRY (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 3860. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require Internet-based, real-time responses to 
     requests to verify taxpayer income for legitimate business 
     purposes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself and Mr. Heck):
       H.R. 3861. A bill to reform the Federal Insurance Office of 
     the Department of the Treasury, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BUTTERFIELD (for himself, Mr. Stewart, and Mr. 
             Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico):
       H.R. 3862. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     extend funding for the National Health Service Corps program; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER (for herself, Mr. Cleaver, Mrs. Noem, 
             and Ms. Bordallo):
       H.R. 3863. A bill to amend the Violence Against Women Act 
     of 1994 to include sex trafficking victims in the 
     transitional housing assistance grant program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PEARCE (for himself, Ms. Moore, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Cole, and Ms. McCollum):
       H.R. 3864. A bill to reauthorize the Native American 
     Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Correa, Mr. Costa, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Lipinski, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Panetta, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Sherman, Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Mr. Scott of Virginia, and Ms. 
             Schakowsky):
       H.R. 3865. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     deem certain service in the organized military forces of the 
     Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines and the 
     Philippine Scouts to have been active service for purposes of 
     benefits under programs administered by the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas (for himself and Mr. Cook):
       H.R. 3866. A bill to amend the Federal Credit Union Act to 
     exclude extensions of credit made to veterans from the 
     definition of a member business loan; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. MULLIN (for himself, Mr. Holding, Mr. 
             Butterfield, and Ms. Sanchez):
       H.R. 3867. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to create care management demonstration programs 
     for chronic kidney disease under the Medicare program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUDD:
       H.R. 3868. A bill to establish a bug bounty pilot program 
     within the Department of the Treasury, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BYRNE:
       H.R. 3869. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to direct the Secretary of Education to establish a process 
     for accrediting agencies or associations to seek a waiver of 
     certain accreditation requirements; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself and Mr. Marino):
       H.R. 3870. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to lower the cost of college education by establishing pilot 
     programs to expand student access to digital course 
     materials; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Ms. Blunt Rochester, and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 3871. A bill to amend the Organic Foods Production Act 
     of 1990 to reauthorize and improve the national organic 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE:
       H.R. 3872. A bill to reinstate and extend the deadline for 
     commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project 
     involving the Gibson Dam; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE:
       H.R. 3873. A bill to designate a mountain peak in the State 
     of Montana as ``Alex

[[Page H7635]]

     Diekmann Peak''; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Amodei, 
             Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Joyce of 
             Ohio, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, 
             Mr. Moulton, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Peters, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Valadao, and Mr. Barr):
       H.R. 3874. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program on physical security at 
     Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities, to direct 
     the Secretary to make certain improvements relating to 
     inspections of Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
     facilities and improving care for women, to direct the 
     Secretary to evaluate the organizational structure of the 
     Veterans Health Administration, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Mr. Evans, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. McGovern, 
             Ms. Moore, Mr. Payne, Mr. Correa, Mr. Hastings, and 
             Mr. Nadler):
       H.R. 3875. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to expand the eligibility of students to participate in 
     the supplemental nutrition assistance program; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Raskin, and Ms. Jayapal):
       H.R. 3876. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds for 
     the official travel of any senior political appointee on 
     private aircraft, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 3877. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to protect health care consumers from surprise 
     billing practices, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Beyer, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Ms. Norton, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Capuano, Mr. 
             Butterfield, and Mrs. Napolitano):
       H.R. 3878. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     provide access to free credit freezes for all consumers; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself and Mr. Schrader):
       H.R. 3879. A bill to limit the use of Federal funds for the 
     use of the travel expenses of senior Federal officials in 
     contravention of certain regulations, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. PALLONE:
       H.R. 3880. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize and support the creation and dissemination of 
     cardiomyopathy education, awareness, and risk assessment 
     materials and resources to identify more at-risk families, to 
     authorize research and surveillance activities relating to 
     cardiomyopathy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Hoyer, Mr. Reichert, and Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 3881. A bill to reauthorize the Assistance to 
     Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and Safety 
     Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and 
     Emergency Response grant program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself and Mr. Sires):
       H.R. 3882. A bill to require the Secretary of 
     Transportation to publish a final rule to provide for the 
     screening, testing, and treatment for sleep disorders of 
     individuals operating commercial vehicles; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Chabot):
       H.R. 3883. A bill to provide for enhanced penalties for 
     certain offenses relating to controlled substances containing 
     fentanyl, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. THOMAS J. ROONEY of Florida (for himself and Mr. 
             Crist):
       H.R. 3884. A bill to amend the Missing Children's 
     Assistance Act with respect to the National Child 
     Identification Program; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen):
       H.R. 3885. A bill to direct the Attorney General to 
     establish guidelines for a model elder abuse registry and to 
     provide grants to States for establishing and operating such 
     a registry, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia:
       H.R. 3886. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the unified credit against the estate and 
     gift tax and to simplify the estate and gift tax rates; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mrs. 
             Hartzler, and Mr. Kennedy):
       H.R. 3887. A bill to require Federal agencies and Federal 
     courts to comply with address confidentiality programs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself, Mr. Evans, Mr. Valadao, 
             and Mr. Duffy):
       H.R. 3888. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide grants for additional residency slots in children's 
     hospitals graduate medical education programs; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself and Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana):
       H.R. 3889. A bill to amend the FAST Act to modify 
     eligibility requirements for participation in a commercial 
     driver pilot program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. VALADAO (for himself, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Smucker, 
             and Mr. Blum):
       H.R. 3890. A bill to provide that determinations of 
     eligibility and level of assistance for rural development 
     programs shall be made without regard to incarcerated 
     prisoner populations; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 3891. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to clarify the authority of State Medicaid fraud and 
     abuse control units to investigate and prosecute cases of 
     Medicaid patient abuse and neglect in any setting, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself and Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana):
       H.R. 3892. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide an exception for certain spun-off voluntary 
     employees' beneficiary associations to the limitation on the 
     exemption from tax on unrelated business taxable income of 
     amounts set aside for qualified benefits; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Soto, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             DeSantis, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Posey, Mr. Rutherford, 
             Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Hastings, Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Mr. Crist, Mr. Ross, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Mast, 
             and Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida):
       H.R. 3893. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 100 Mathe Avenue in 
     Interlachen, Florida, as the ``Robert H. Jenkins Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H. Con. Res. 82. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 
     International Day of Peace; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Jones, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. King of New York, Mr. Lance, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Rouzer, and Mrs. Walorski):
       H. Con. Res. 83. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center for the 
     unveiling of the American Prisoners of War/Missing in Action 
     (POW/MIA) Chair of Honor; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Babin, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Ms. Norton, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Olson, and 
             Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York):
       H. Res. 544. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to require a reading of the names of 
     members of the Armed Forces who died in the previous month as 
     a result of combat; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Takano, and Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York):
       H. Res. 545. A resolution recognizing the violence and 
     other challenges faced by transgender women of color in 
     America; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Education and the Workforce, Financial 
     Services, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

[[Page H7636]]

  

           By Ms. MATSUI:
       H. Res. 546. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Community Gardening Awareness Week; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. POE of Texas:
       H. Res. 547. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of February 3, 2018, as ``United States Missing 
     Persons Day''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.

                          ____________________



