

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8179]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO CAPTAIN LUDVIG K. TANDE

  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President: I wish to pay tribute to a member of my 
staff, Kris Tande, who is retiring from the Senate at the end of this 
year. This is not the first time he has retired from public service as 
retired Navy Capt Ludvig K. Kris Tande spent a career as a naval 
aviator prior to working for several legislators from the State of 
Florida.
  Captain Tande currently serves as my senior State military director, 
and I am the fourth Florida Senator to have had Captain Tande help me 
represent northwest Florida. Starting in 1998, Captain Tande served as 
regional director for Senator Connie Mack, later serving in the same 
position for Senators Mel Martinez and George LeMieux. Former 
Congressman Jeff Miller tapped Captain Tande as his district director 
from 2001-2005. Captain Tande has served the constituents of Northwest 
Florida for the past 19 years, a term that notably included the 2005 
Base Realignment and Closure Commission, which saw Florida gain vital 
military missions such as the relocation of 7th Special Forces Group 
from North Carolina and the standup of multiservice F-35 Joint Strike 
Fighter training at Eglin Air Force Base. During my time, when our 
country lost one of its brave troops, Captain Tande helped connect me 
with the families to whom we owed a great debt. When disaster struck, 
Captain Tande was instrumental in assisting Floridians adversely 
affected by the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill that resulted in 
substantial economic damage in northwest Florida.
  Former Senator Mel Martinez has this to say about Kris: ``Captain 
Tande was one of the most valued members of my Senate staff. My service 
in the Senate came at the beginning of the `War on Terror'. Kris 
provided me valuable insight into the military issues we were 
confronting. He particularly helped me to understand the plight of 
military families impacted by long deployments, and the physical cost 
of war on our troops. He was much more than a regional representative. 
He was an integral part of my Senate life. Kris became a friend and 
trusted advisor and was a genuine pleasure to know. My visits to the 
Panhandle were always great because of good, cheerful company and a car 
full of snacks! Captain, enjoy a well-earned retirement and thank you 
for your many years of dedicated service to our country.''
  For many people, this could be considered a full career. For Kris 
Tande, this was his second act. Captain Tande was designated a Naval 
aviator in 1970 and subsequently flew 4,000 hours in helicopters and 
fixed-wing aircraft and deployed on several aircraft carriers. He is a 
plankowner of the amphibious ship USS Wasp LHD-1. Tande held several 
commands, most notably as commanding officer Naval Air Station Whiting 
Field, 1993-1995, in Milton, FL, and commander Training Wing Five 
(1995). His flight helmet sits in the reconstructed NAS Cubi Point 
Officers' Club, originally in the Republic of the Philippines, now at 
the National Naval Aviation Museum in Pensacola, FL.
  As he leaves the service of his country and heads into retirement 
with his wife of 47 years, J.J., his four children, and six beloved 
grandsons, I wanted to thank Captain Tande for his service to his 
country and particularly to northwest Florida. The business, military 
personnel, veteran and their families who make up so much of the 
Florida Panhandle will miss this good public servant's steady hand.
  Best wishes to Kris and J.J. as they embark on a well-earned 
retirement.

                          ____________________



