

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6134]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Manchin, and Mr. Shelby):
       S. 1857. A bill to establish a compliance deadline of May 
     15, 2023, for Step 2 emissions standards for new residential 
     wood heaters, new residential hydronic heaters, and forced-
     air furnaces; to the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Reed, 
             Mr. Merkley, and Mr. Sanders):
       S. 1858. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     empower the States to set the maximum annual percentage rates 
     applicable to consumer credit transactions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Cotton, 
             Mr. Johnson, Mr. Portman, Mr. Flake, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
             Barrasso, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Heller, and Mr. Scott):
       S. 1859. A bill to extend the moratorium on the annual fee 
     on health insurance providers; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 1860. A bill to amend section 203 of the Federal Power 
     Act; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE:
       S. 1861. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand personal saving and retirement savings coverage by 
     enabling employees not covered by qualifying retirement plans 
     to save for retirement through automatic IRA arrangements, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CORKER (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Rubio, 
             and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 1862. A bill to amend the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Act of 2000 to modify the criteria for determining whether 
     countries are meeting the minimum standards for the 
     elimination of human trafficking, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Hatch, and Mr. Paul):
       S. 1863. A bill to clarify that noncommercial species found 
     entirely within the borders of a single State are not in 
     interstate commerce or subject to regulation under the 
     Endangered Species Act of 1973 or any other provision of law 
     enacted as an exercise of the power of Congress to regulate 
     interstate commerce; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Franken, and Mr. King):
       S. 1864. A bill to expand the use of open textbooks in 
     order to achieve savings for students; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Nelson, and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 1865. A bill to provide temporary direct hire authority 
     for certain emergency response positions; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER:
       S. 1866. A bill to provide the Secretary of Education with 
     waiver authority for the reallocation rules and authority to 
     extend the deadline by which funds have to be reallocated in 
     the campus-based aid programs under the Higher Education Act 
     of 1965 due to Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma, and 
     Hurricane Maria, to provide equitable services to children 
     and teachers in private schools, and for other purposes; 
     considered and passed.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Moran, Mr. Udall, and 
             Mr. Warner):
       S. 1867. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     eliminate the sunset of certain provisions relating to 
     information technology, to amend the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
     ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 to extend the sunset relating to the Federal Data 
     Center Consolidation Initiative, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr. Heller, Mr. Schatz, 
             Mr. Franken, Mr. King, Ms. Hirono, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             and Mr. Reed):
       S. 1868. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide tax credits for energy storage technologies, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



