

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6853-S6854]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. PERDUE:
       S. 2013. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     provide a safe harbor from certain requirements related to 
     qualified mortgages for residential mortgage loans held on an 
     originating depository institution's portfolio, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 2014. A bill to require greater transparency for Federal 
     regulatory decisions that impact small businesses; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Franken, Ms. Stabenow, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Murphy, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Johnson):
       S. 2015. A bill to clarify the status of the North Country, 
     Ice Age, and New England National Scenic Trails as units of 
     the National Park System, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MARKEY:
       S. 2016. A bill to prevent an unconstitutional strike 
     against North Korea; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Markey, 
             Mr. Franken, and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 2017. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to provide that over-the-road bus drivers are covered 
     under the maximum hours requirement; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Brown):
       S. 2018. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to make the child tax credit fully refundable, establish an 
     increased child tax credit for young children, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Markey, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 2019. A bill to amend title VII of the Civil Rights Act 
     of 1964 and other statutes to clarify appropriate liability 
     standards for Federal antidiscrimination claims; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY:
       S. 2020. A bill to establish a voluntary program to 
     identify and promote Internet-connected products that meet 
     industry-leading cybersecurity and data security standards, 
     guidelines, best practices, methodologies, procedures, and 
     processes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 2021. A bill to repeal title I of the Patient Protection 
     and Affordable Care Act and to amend the Public Health 
     Service Act to provide for cooperative governing of 
     individual health insurance coverage offered in interstate 
     commerce; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr. Johnson):
       S. 2022. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to provide for reciprocal marketing approval of 
     certain drugs, biological products, and devices that are 
     authorized to be lawfully marketed abroad, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 2023. A bill to require a study regarding security 
     measures and equipment at Cuba's airports, require the 
     standardization of Federal Air Marshal Service agreements, 
     require efforts to raise international aviation security 
     standards, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

[[Page S6854]]

  

           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 2024. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to create a tax credit for foster families; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. YOUNG:
       S. 2025. A bill to provide for the conduct of demonstration 
     projects to provide coordinated case management services for 
     TANF recipients; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Menendez, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 2026. A bill to amend titles XVIII and XIX of the Social 
     Security Act to make improvements to the treatment of the 
     United States territories under the Medicare and Medicaid 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. PORTMAN:
       S. 2027. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide clarification with respect to the liability of 
     third party payers for medical assistance paid under the 
     Medicaid program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Warren, and 
             Mr. Murphy):
       S. 2028. A bill to provide for institutional risk-sharing 
     in the Federal student loan programs; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Mr. 
             Blumenthal):
       S. 2029. A bill to establish a National and Community 
     Service Administration to carry out the national and 
     volunteer service programs, to expand participation in such 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.

                          ____________________



