

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7897-S7898]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      WELCOMING THE GUEST CHAPLAIN

  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise today to thank Father Steven Boes 
from Boys Town for delivering our opening prayer this morning. The work 
he does to help at-risk youth across America is awe-inspiring, and I am 
proud to say that he is a Nebraskan.
  Boys Town is a special place, and it is located in the heart of our 
country. In the late 1910s, while ministering to the homeless of Omaha, 
Father Edward Joseph Flanagan became interested in young people and 
their struggles to grow into responsible, productive adults. He wanted 
to help them improve their lives, and he soon founded Boys Town on 
December 12, 1917, as an orphanage for boys.
  A few years later, Father Flanagan purchased Overlook Farm on the 
outskirts of Omaha, which soon became known as the Village of Boys 
Town. He knew that children would thrive if given love, a home, and a 
purpose. His message that every child deserves a loving home and a 
chance to create a positive future for themselves is one that resonates 
across social boundaries.
  Today, Boys Town is one of the largest nonprofits in the country, 
serving underprivileged and at-risk children. Father Boes's leadership 
at Boys Town is a tribute to Father Flanagan's mission to build better 
communities by promoting stronger families. For nearly 100 years, Boys 
Town has worked tirelessly to nurture troubled children and heal broken 
families. Every year, the organization helps more than 2 million 
children and families across the United States.
  Boys Town also has a renowned school, which offers a year-round 
traditional academic curriculum that focuses on helping students, 
especially those who are behind in their school work. It helps children 
in difficult circumstances find success in the classroom, as well as 
get back on track toward graduation.
  The school's motto echoes that of the organization as a whole: ``He 
ain't heavy, Father, he's my brother.'' I believe that motto is a great 
explanation of why we are celebrating Boys Town's 100th anniversary 
next week. For a century, through terrible depressions, horrible world 
wars, droughts, and snowstorms, Boys Town has served as a glimmer of 
hope for many who are looking for help.
  I don't think Father Flanagan would be surprised to learn that Boys 
Town has grown to include 12 regional headquarters across our great 
Nation or that his charity really has become a jewel of the nonprofits. 
His outlook created a firm foundation for helping our communities, and 
it is one that Father Boes continues to build on.
  That deserves to be celebrated. I am happy that on July 6, 2015, the 
Boys Town Centennial Commemorative Coin Act was signed into law. This 
bill authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to mint five-dollar gold 
coins, one-dollar silver coins, and half-dollar coins in honor of Boys 
Town's 100th anniversary. Adorned with designs and sayings that capture 
the spirit and mission of

[[Page S7898]]

Boys Town, these coins can act as good reminders of those who once 
helped us. I hope they also serve as encouragement to improve our 
communities and think about those who are less fortunate.
  I wish Father Boes continued success going forward. We in the Senate 
are all rooting for him. Boys Town exemplifies the spirit of America, 
and it is the prize of the State of Nebraska. I am honored to be its 
Senator.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



