

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7899]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY POST OFFICE

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2464) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 25 New Chardon Street Lobby in Boston, 
Massachusetts, as the ``John Fitzgerald Kennedy Post Office''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2464

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY POST OFFICE.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 25 New Chardon Street Lobby in Boston, 
     Massachusetts, shall be known and designated as the ``John 
     Fitzgerald Kennedy Post Office''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``John Fitzgerald Kennedy Post Office''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Montana (Mr. Gianforte) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Gomez) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Montana.


                             General Leave

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and to include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Montana?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2464, introduced by 
Congressman Stephen Lynch from Massachusetts. The bill designates the 
post office located at 25 New Chardon Street Lobby in Boston, 
Massachusetts, as the John Fitzgerald Kennedy Post Office.
  John F. Kennedy was the 35th President of the United States. During 
his tenure, he is possibly most famous for his handling of the Cuban 
missile crisis, preventing a thermonuclear conflict with the former 
Soviet Union.
  This year marks the 100th anniversary of President Kennedy's birth, 
and we thank him for his service to our Nation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Lynch).
  Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2464, legislation 
that I introduced back in May of this year to officially designate the 
United States Postal Service facility located at 25 New Chardon Street 
Lobby in Boston, Massachusetts, as the John Fitzgerald Kennedy Post 
Office.
  This bill reflects the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform's 
commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of President John 
F. Kennedy this year, otherwise known as the JFK Centennial.
  I would like to thank our former chairman, Jason Chaffetz of Utah; 
our current chairman, the gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Gowdy); 
the ranking member, the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Cummings); the 
chairman of our Subcommittee on Government Operations, the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. Meadows); our ranking member, the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Connolly); and all of the Subcommittee on Government 
Operations for their efforts to move this legislation forward.
  I would also like to thank the entire Massachusetts House delegation 
for their effort in sponsoring this measure.
  H.R. 2464 honors the life and enduring legacy of our Nation's 35th 
President, John F. Kennedy, and his impassioned commitment to public 
service, equality, peace and diplomacy, and ensuring a better quality 
of life for every American. Our special remembrance of President 
Kennedy this year also affords us a distinct opportunity to reflect on 
and appreciate his vision and wisdom in the context of the many 
challenges we are facing as a nation today both at home and abroad.
  As we grapple with difficult issues ranging from healthcare to 
economic reform, let us recall President Kennedy's understanding that: 
``For one true measure of a nation is its success in fulfilling the 
promise of a better life for each of its members.''
  And in contemplating issues pertaining to equality and civil rights, 
we would be wise to remember President Kennedy's advancement of the 
principle that the rights of every person are diminished when the 
rights of one person are threatened.
  As we continue to address matters of contention with adversarial 
nations, we must bear in mind President Kennedy's admonition and 
foresight that ``civility is not a sign of weakness, and sincerity is 
always subject to proof.''
  In closing, Mr. Speaker, I would like to also thank my colleague and 
friend, Congressman Joseph Kennedy from the Fourth District of 
Massachusetts, for his work on this legislation as well.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
support H.R. 2464.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I would like to make the gentleman from 
California aware that I have no further speakers, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill in 
recognition of President Kennedy's sacrifice for our Nation, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Montana (Mr. Gianforte) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2464.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



