

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 151 (Tuesday, September 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 151 (Tuesday, September 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5860]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Blunt, 
             Mr. Casey, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 1829. A bill to amend title V of the Social Security Act 
     to extend the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home 
     Visiting Program; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 1830. A bill to strengthen employee cost savings 
     suggestions programs within the Federal Government; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 1831. A bill to expand eligibility for certain housing 
     programs for qualified volunteer first responders; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Udall):
       S. 1832. A bill to prohibit Federal agencies from using 
     Government funds to pay for the lodging of agency employees 
     at establishments that are owned by or employ certain public 
     officials or their relatives; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Wyden, and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1833. A bill to modify requirements applicable to 
     locatable minerals on public domain land, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Casey, and 
             Ms. Collins):
       S. 1834. A bill to amend title XXVIII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to establish a National Advisory Committee on 
     Seniors and Disasters; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 1835. A bill to provide support to States to establish 
     invisible high risk pool or reinsurance programs; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1836. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for annual cost-of-living adjustments to be made 
     automatically by law each year in the rates of disability 
     compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities 
     and the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for 
     survivors of certain service-connected disabled veterans, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Markey, and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1837. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide tax rate parity among all tobacco products, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Markey, and Ms. 
             Hassan):
       S. 1838. A bill to repeal the authority under the National 
     Labor Relations Act for States to enact laws prohibiting 
     agreements requiring membership in a labor organization as a 
     condition of employment, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. KING (for himself, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Donnelly, and 
             Ms. Collins):
       S. 1839. A bill to amend the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 
     to extend and expand the market access program and the 
     foreign market development cooperator program; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Ms. HASSAN:
       S. 1840. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a working America tax credit; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. WICKER:
       S. 1841. A bill to amend the National Apprenticeship Act to 
     provide that applications relating to apprenticeship programs 
     shall be processed in a fair and timely manner, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Crapo, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mr. Risch, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Gardner, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 1842. A bill to provide for wildfire suppression 
     operations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Budget.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 1843. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to deny a deduction for excessive compensation of any 
     employee of an employer, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr. King):
       S. 1844. A bill to provide for coordination by the Federal 
     Energy Regulatory Commission of the process for reviewing 
     certain natural gas projects under the jurisdiction of the 
     Commission, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Scott, Mr. Menendez, 
             Mr. Young, Mr. Donnelly, and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 1845. A bill to amend the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning 
     Prevention Act to provide for additional procedures for 
     families with children under the age of 6, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 1846. A bill to repeal the debt ceiling; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 1847. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to ensure that the needs of children are considered in 
     homeland security, trafficking, and disaster recovery 
     planning, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CORKER:
       S. 1848. An original bill to amend the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 to modify the criteria for determining 
     whether countries are meeting the minimum standards for the 
     elimination of human trafficking, and for other purposes; 
     from the Committee on Foreign Relations; placed on the 
     calendar.
           By Mr. BROWN:
       S. 1849. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the earned income tax credit to account for the 
     amount by which economic growth has outpaced income growth, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



