

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6769-S6770]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 221

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 221, a bill to 
allow a State to submit a declaration of intent to the Secretary of 
Education to combine certain funds to improve the academic achievement 
of students.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Cochran, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to 
require Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports 
in electronic form.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 424

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 424, a bill to 
amend title 5, United States Code, to include certain Federal positions 
within the definition of law enforcement officer for retirement 
purposes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under 
Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 928

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 928, a bill to 
prohibit, as an unfair or deceptive act or practice, commercial sexual 
orientation conversion therapy, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 998

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 998, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to protect personally identifiable information, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1042

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1042, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to exclude Segal Americorps Education Awards and 
related awards from income.


                                S. 1110

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1110, a bill to 
amend title 49, United States Code, to provide for private lactation 
areas in the terminals of large and medium hub airports, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1113

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1113, a bill to 
amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety of 
cosmetics.


                                S. 1152

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1152, a bill to create 
protections for depository institutions that provide financial services 
to cannabis-related businesses, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, 
nurse practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise 
cardiac, intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1400

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1400, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to enhance protections of Native American 
tangible cultural heritage, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1558

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1558, a bill to amend section 203 
of Public Law 94-305 to ensure proper authority for the Office of 
Advocacy of the Small Business Administration, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1559

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1559, a bill to ensure a complete 
analysis of the potential impacts of rules on small entities.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1706, a bill to prevent human health threats posed by the consumption 
of equines raised in the United States.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1718, a bill to authorize the minting of a coin in 
honor of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1756

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1756, a bill to improve 
the processes by which environmental documents are prepared and permits 
and applications are processed and regulated by Federal departments and 
agencies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1764

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1764, a bill to extend the 
principle of federalism to State drug policy, provide access to medical 
marijuana, and

[[Page S6770]]

enable research into the medicinal properties of marijuana.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1808, a bill to extend 
temporarily the Federal Perkins Loan program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1850

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1850, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to protect the confidentiality of 
substance use disorder patient records.


                                S. 1893

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1893, a bill to amend the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify 
when bank holding companies may be subject to certain enhanced 
supervision, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1927

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1927, a bill to amend 
section 455(m) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to allow 
adjunct faculty members to qualify for public service loan forgiveness.


                                S. 1960

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1960, a bill 
to repeal the amendments made to the Controlled Substances Act by the 
Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2016.


                                S. 1979

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1979, a bill to block the 
implementation of certain presidential actions that restrict 
individuals from certain countries from entering the United States.


                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. Res. 136, a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding 
the 102nd anniversary of the Armenian Genocide.


                              S. RES. 211

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 211, a resolution 
condemning the violence and persecution in Chechnya.


                              S. RES. 245

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 245, a resolution calling on the Government of 
Iran to release unjustly detained United States citizens and legal 
permanent resident aliens, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 291

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 291, a resolution affirming the historical 
connection of the Jewish people to the ancient and sacred city of 
Jerusalem and condemning efforts at the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to deny Judaism's 
millennia-old historical, religious, and cultural ties to Jerusalem.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1576

  At the request of Mr. Shelby, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) and the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1576 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2266, 
a bill to amend title 28 of the United States Code to authorize the 
appointment of additional bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



