

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7016-S7017]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 355

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 355, a bill to 
amend the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act to provide for a 
lifetime National Recreational Pass for any veteran with a service-
connected disability.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to 
limit the authority of States to tax certain income of employees for 
employment duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 563

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 563, a bill to 
amend the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to require that certain 
buildings and personal property be covered by flood insurance, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to 
expand eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for 
family caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand 
benefits available to participants under such program, to enhance 
special compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 744

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 744, a bill to amend the Fair 
Credit Reporting Act to delay the inclusion in consumer credit reports 
and to establish requirements for debt collectors with respect to 
medical debt information of veterans due to inappropriate or delayed 
billing payments or reimbursements from the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 778

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 778, a bill to 
require the use of prescription drug monitoring programs and to 
facilitate information sharing among States.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 818, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow individuals with disabilities to save additional 
amounts in their ABLE accounts above the current annual maximum 
contribution if they work and earn income.


                                 S. 948

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 948, a bill to 
designate as wilderness certain Federal portions of the red rock 
canyons of the Colorado Plateau and the Great Basin Deserts in the 
State of Utah for the benefit of present and future generations of 
people in the United States.


                                S. 1021

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1021, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of the 
United States Coast Guard.


                                S. 1108

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1108, a bill to 
amend title 4, United States Code, to provide for the flying of the 
flag at half-staff in the event of the death of a first responder in 
the line of duty.


                                S. 1113

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1113, a bill to 
amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety of 
cosmetics.


                                S. 1194

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1194, a bill to provide 
for the coverage of medically necessary food and vitamins for digestive 
and inherited metabolic disorders under Federal health programs and 
private health insurance, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1333

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell) and the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. 
Heitkamp) were added as cosponsors of S. 1333, a bill to provide for 
rental assistance for homeless or at-risk Indian veterans.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1568, a bill to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein), the 
Senator from California (Ms. Harris), the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                                S. 1730

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1730, a bill to implement policies to end 
preventable maternal, newborn, and child deaths globally.


                                S. 1753

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1753, a bill to 
amend the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 to provide a 
temporary license for loan originators transitioning between employers, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1823

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1823, a bill to 
amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act to clarify that houses of worship are eligible for certain disaster 
relief and emergency assistance on terms equal to other eligible 
private nonprofit facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill to provide 
for wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1970

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1970, a bill to establish a 
public health plan.


                                S. 2006

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2006, a bill to require breast density 
reporting to

[[Page S7017]]

physicians and patients by facilities that perform mammograms, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2044

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2044, a bill 
to amend title 18, United States Code, to protect more victims of 
domestic violence by preventing their abusers from possessing or 
receiving firearms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2047

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2047, a bill to 
restrict the use of funds for kinetic military operations in North 
Korea.


                                S. 2060

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2060, a bill to promote 
democracy and human rights in Burma, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2073

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2073, a bill to 
establish a vegetation management pilot program on National Forest 
System land to better protect utility infrastructure from passing 
wildfire, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



