

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7925]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      RECERTIFY IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Costa) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the significance 
of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding Iran, more commonly 
referred to as the Iran nuclear agreement.
  I have always been a vocal advocate for tough sanctions on Iran. 
While I was a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, in 2010, I 
was a member of the conference committee which drafted the 
Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act. These 
sanctions, in 2010 and subsequently, did make a difference.
  Unfortunately, Iran continues to support terrorist organizations, and 
its record on human rights is well known. But we should not withhold 
certification of the Iran nuclear agreement without credible evidence 
that Iran is not complying. Let's remember, this agreement has always 
been about Iran, not obtaining nuclear weapons.
  Doing so would strip the United States of our credibility in future 
international agreements not just with Iran, but with our allies as 
well.
  In addition to Iran, we negotiated the Iran nuclear agreement with 
the United Kingdom, Germany, European Union, China, and Russia, and we 
must keep our word. In other words, to remain credible, the United 
States cannot change positions on international agreements from one 
administration to another without serious justification and without the 
consent in working with our allies.
  Especially now, as we are facing an increasing threat with North 
Korea, we must work with our allies and, together, make a safer world 
through a comprehensive strategy that involves diplomacy, sanctions, 
and, yes, deterrence, if we must use such force. We have methods for 
addressing Iran's nonnuclear behavior besides refusing to recertify the 
agreement, and I will continue to advocate for the use of these tools 
to take a strong stance against Iran for their support of terrorist 
state activities and their abuse of human rights.
  But refusing to recertify the Iran nuclear agreement, without clear 
evidence that Iran has breached the agreement, will deeply damage our 
relationships with our allies, and it will weaken our credibility 
worldwide.


                 Commemorating Hispanic Heritage Month

  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to commemorate Hispanic 
Heritage Month, which is from September 15 to October 15 every year.

  This month we honor and celebrate the history, culture, achievements, 
and contributions of Hispanic leaders in communities throughout our 
great country. From serving in our Armed Forces, to starting businesses 
that further develop our economy and provide employment for Americans, 
Hispanics have contributed great advancements in science, medicine, 
literature, and education. The Hispanic community and its people have 
been critical in shaping our Nation and the valley that I have the 
honor to represent.
  For example, in my home State of California alone, there are over 
815,000 Hispanic- or Latino-owned companies, which, together, generate 
over $98.9 billion in general receipts in our economy. In Fresno, 
Merced, and Madera counties, which I represent, there are nearly 27,000 
Hispanic- or Latino-owned companies, which, together, generated, last 
year, over $2 billion, $700 million in our economy.
  The story of our Hispanic friends, neighbors, and loved ones is the 
story of the American Dream, as they have the same hope and aspiration 
that all Americans have: to make a better life for themselves and their 
families through hard work, access to a better education, and equal 
treatment under the law.
  Let us remember, after all, we are a nation of immigrants past and 
present.
  For over 250 years, since the formation of the United States, 
immigrants have come from all over the world to America to have a 
better life for themselves and, in turn, have made us the greatest 
country in the world.
  During Hispanic Heritage Month, I am honored to celebrate the 
community whose determination and achievements are an integral part of 
not only our Nation, but the San Joaquin Valley that I have the honor 
to represent.

                          ____________________



