

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8502-H8504]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




AUTHORIZING THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO FURNISH ASSISTANCE FOR 
    ADAPTATIONS OF RESIDENCES OF VETERANS IN REHABILITATION PROGRAMS

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 3562) to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish assistance for 
adaptations of residences of veterans in rehabilitation programs under 
chapter 31 of such title, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3562

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. IMPROVEMENTS TO AUTHORITIES FOR PROVISION OF 
                   ASSISTANCE FOR ADAPTATIONS OF RESIDENCES OF 
                   VETERANS IN REHABILITATION PROGRAMS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 21 of title 38, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2102A the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2102B. Adaptations to residences of veterans in 
       rehabilitation programs

       ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the 
     Secretary may assist a veteran who is entitled to services 
     and assistance under chapter 31 of this title and is pursuing 
     a rehabilitation program under such chapter in acquiring such 
     adaptations to such veteran's residence as are determined 
     necessary by the Secretary to accomplish the purposes of such 
     rehabilitation program.
       ``(b) Amount.--(1) The aggregate amount of assistance 
     available to a veteran under subsection (a) may not exceed 
     $77,307. The Secretary may waive this limitation for a 
     veteran if the Secretary determines a waiver is necessary for 
     the rehabilitation program of the veteran.
       ``(2) Effective on October 1 of each year (beginning in 
     2017), the Secretary shall increase the amount described in 
     paragraph (1) by the percentage calculated under section 
     2102(e)(2) of this title.
       ``(3) Beginning on October 1, 2019, the Secretary shall 
     submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate 
     and House of

[[Page H8503]]

     Representatives a biennial report on the use of the waiver 
     authority under paragraph (1).
       ``(c) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such 
     regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
       ``(d) Rehabilitation Program Defined.--In this section, the 
     term `rehabilitation program' has the meaning given such term 
     in section 3101 of this title.''.
       (b) Regulations.--The Secretary may provide assistance 
     under section 2102B of such title, as added by subsection 
     (a), in advance of regulations by issuing notice specifying 
     the criteria for the application, approval, and oversight 
     processes relating to the provision of assistance under such 
     section.
       (c) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) Scope of services and assistance for training and 
     rehabilitation.--Section 3104 of such title is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) The Secretary may not assist a veteran in acquiring 
     adaptations to the residence of the veteran under this 
     chapter. Any such assistance may be furnished only under 
     section 2102B of this title.''.
       (2) Members of the armed forces residing outside the united 
     states.--Section 2101A of such title is amended--
       (A) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
       (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
     subsection (c):
       ``(c) Limitation.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), 
     this section shall not apply to the provision of assistance 
     under section 2102B of this title.''.
       (3) Benefits additional to benefits under other laws.--
     Section 2104 of such title is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``; however'' and all 
     that follows through ``once'';
       (B) in subsection (b), by striking the second sentence; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(c) The Secretary may not provide assistance to a veteran 
     under this chapter if the Secretary determines such 
     assistance would result in a duplication of benefits under 
     this title to the veteran.''.
       (4) Exception to mandatory life insurance.--Section 2106(a) 
     of such title is amended to read as follows:
       ``(a) The Secretary shall insure any individual under 70 
     years of age who has received assistance under this chapter 
     against the death of the individual except for an individual 
     who--
       ``(1) elects in writing to not receive insurance under this 
     section;
       ``(2) fails to respond in a timely manner to a request from 
     the Secretary for information on which the premium for such 
     insurance can be based; or
       ``(3) receives such assistance under section 2102B of this 
     title.''.
       (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 21 of such title is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 2102A the following new 
     item:

``2102B. Adaptations to residences of veterans in rehabilitation 
              programs.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Roe) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Takano) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3562.
  This bill was introduced by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Arrington), 
my good friend, and would streamline the process for needed home 
adaptations for our most severely wounded veterans and servicemembers. 
The bill would do this by having the most qualified VA employees, those 
who already work on VA's Specially Adaptive Housing program and who are 
experts in home adaptation, oversee the changes to a veteran's home.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Arrington), chairman of the Subcommittee on Economic 
Opportunity, to discuss this bill.
  Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss H.R. 3562 and ask 
my colleagues to join me in supporting this bipartisan, commonsense 
legislation to improve our services for those who have ``borne the 
battle": America's disabled veterans.
  Currently, if a disabled veteran in VA's Vocational Rehabilitation 
and Employment program needs adaptations made to their home due to the 
limitations of their disability, then it is their vocational 
rehabilitation counselor, someone who has no experience or training in 
home construction, who makes such arrangements for these adaptations.
  In addition to the lack of core competency in home adaptations, these 
counselors have experienced a significant and steady rise in their job 
counseling caseloads, so their focusing on this home construction takes 
away from their primary function as a vocational counselor. This has 
resulted in inefficiencies for disabled veterans who now have to wait 
in line, and it is costing taxpayers more money.
  While these are master's degree-level counselors who provide great 
services to our veterans every single day, they do not have the 
expertise to understand how to build a wheelchair ramp, affix a grab 
bar to a wall, or implement other home adaptations. This bill would 
simply transfer these responsibility's to VA's Specially Adapted 
Housing program, where they deal with these kinds of construction 
projects every day.
  This change is needed. It will save the taxpayers money, and, most 
importantly, it will help our disabled veterans immensely by ensuring 
that they have the right people on the job to address their service-
connected disabilities in a timely fashion.
  Mr. Speaker, as we head into Veterans Day this upcoming weekend, I 
just want to take a moment of personal privilege and say what an honor 
it has been to serve on the VA Committee and chair the Subcommittee on 
Economic Opportunity, and I want to thank, especially, the chairman for 
that opportunity. It is humbling to know that in some small way I can 
do my part on behalf of the people of west Texas to serve those who put 
their lives on the line for all of us.
  Veterans represent the very best of what this country was built on: 
service before self. I say this because, at a time when our country's 
culture and political environment seems so divided, the one thing that 
continues to bring us together as Americans is our servicemembers and 
veterans.
  When they raised their right hand and swore an oath to defend their 
fellow citizens, they did not care if we were from a red State or a 
blue State, Republican or Democrat. They did it for love of country and 
to protect not only their family and friends, but also the stranger 
whom they will never meet.
  That is why I am also very proud that, when we consider veterans 
legislation as we are doing today and tomorrow, we are doing the two 
most important things expected by all Americans: working together to 
solve problems, and delivering on our promise to the American people. I 
believe that the cumulative effect of commonsense measures such as the 
bill that we are considering today are helping to deliver on those 
promises.
  I want to thank Chairman Roe, again, and also House leadership on 
both sides for helping us bring this bill through our committee and to 
the floor.
  Mr. Speaker, as chairman of the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, 
I would be remiss if I didn't also thank the leadership of my ranking 
member, friend, and fellow west Texan, Mr. Beto O'Rourke, in getting 
this bill introduced and to where it is today.
  I know that our fellow Americans would strongly agree with me that 
our veterans, especially our disabled veterans, deserve the very best 
services their country can provide, and this bill is another step 
towards doing just that. I urge all my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3562 requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
provide funding for home adaptations for severely disabled veterans 
within the Vocational, Rehabilitation, and Employment, or VR&E, 
program.
  Currently, VA provides severely disabled veterans assistance to lead 
a more independent life through the VR&E program, which can include 
help with adaptive housing. However, as their name suggests, VR&E 
counselors are primarily trained to provide vocational and employment 
assistance, and they do not necessarily have the expertise to provide 
the best guidance on adaptive housing.
  The agents and contractors who are part of VA's Specially Adaptive 
Housing program, however, do have this expertise. The SAH program is 
specifically geared towards helping severely disabled veterans with 
adapting their homes to be equipped for independent living.
  Therefore, in order to better serve severely disabled veterans, this 
bill authorizes the SAH program to provide assistance to home 
adaptations for

[[Page H8504]]

VR&E-eligible veterans. The amount of assistance would be capped at the 
same level of funding that is currently provided to SAH-eligible 
veterans.

  This is a solution that puts the right VA employee in charge of 
assisting a disabled veteran to adapt their home. This will also reduce 
the workload on VR&E counselors, allowing them to spend more time 
helping veterans with employment services.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this bill, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, this is the type of legislation that I am proud members 
of our committee continue to bring forward. While it is not as flashy 
as the GI Bill package we passed earlier this year or Care in the 
Community legislation we are working on later this week, this bill gets 
to the core of what this Congress should be about: making it easier for 
disabled veterans to receive the benefits they have earned.
  I commend Mr. Arrington and Mr. O'Rourke for looking at a challenge 
and working with the administration and veterans groups to craft this 
important bill.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material on H.R. 3562.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting this bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 3562, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all 
Members to support this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 3562.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. ROE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



