

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 156 (Thursday, September 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6222]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE

  At 9:55 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, without amendment:

       S. 327. An act to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to provide a safe harbor related to certain 
     investment fund research reports, and for other purposes.

       S. 1866. An act to provide the Secretary of Education with 
     waiver authority for the reallocation rules and authority to 
     extend the deadline by which funds have to be reallocated in 
     the campus-based aid programs under the Higher Education Act 
     of 1965 due to Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma, and 
     Hurricane Maria, to provide equitable services to children 
     and teachers in private schools, and for other purposes.

  The message also announced that the House has passed the following 
bill, in which it requests the concurrence of the Senate:

       H.R. 3229. An act to protect the safety of judges by 
     extending the authority of the Judicial Conference to redact 
     sensitive information contained in their financial disclosure 
     reports, and for other purposes.
                                  ____

  At 11:40 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bill, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 3823. An act to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     extend authorizations for the airport improvement program, to 
     amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the funding 
     and expenditure authority of the Airport and Airway Trust 
     Fund, to provide disaster tax relief, and for other purposes.


                         Enrolled Bills Signed

  At 11:54 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the Speaker 
has signed the following enrolled bills:

       S. 1141. An act to ensure that the United States promotes 
     the meaningful participation of women in mediation and 
     negotiation processes seeking to prevent, mitigate, or 
     resolve violent conflict.
       H.R. 3819. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend certain expiring provisions of law administered by the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.

  The enrolled bills were subsequently signed by the President pro 
tempore (Mr. Hatch).
                                  ____

  At 12:42 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 2792. An act to amend the Social Security Act to make 
     certain revisions to provisions limiting payment of benefits 
     to fugitive felons under titles II, VIII, and XVI of the 
     Social Security Act.
       H.R. 2824. An act to amend title V of the Social Security 
     Act to extend the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home 
     Visiting Program, and to amend the Social Security Act to 
     make certain revisions to provisions limiting payment of 
     benefits to fugitive felons under titles II, VIII, and XVI of 
     the Social Security Act.


                         Enrolled Bills Signed

  At 1:58 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the Speaker pro 
tempore (Mr. Upton) signed the following enrolled bills:

       S. 327. An act to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to provide a safe harbor related to certain 
     investment fund research reports, and for other purposes.
       S. 1866. An act to provide the Secretary of Education with 
     waiver authority for the reallocation rules and authority to 
     extend the deadline by which funds have to be reallocated in 
     the campus-based aid programs under the Higher Education Act 
     of 1965 due to Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma, and 
     Hurricane Maria, to provide equitable services to children 
     and teachers in private schools, and for other purposes.

  The enrolled bills were subsequently signed by the President pro 
tempore (Mr. Hatch).
                                  ____

  At 4:27 4:27 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, 
delivered by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announcing that the 
House agrees to the amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 3823) to 
amend title 49, United States code, to extend authorizations for the 
airport improvement program, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to extend the funding and expenditure authority of the Airport and 
Airway Trust Fund, to provide disaster tax relief, and for other 
purposes.

                          ____________________



