

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7120]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 6 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 8, 
2017, at 9:45 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: 
Dana Baiocco, of Ohio, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product 
Safety Commission, James Bridenstine, of Oklahoma, to be Administrator 
of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Neil Jacobs, of 
North Carolina, and Nazakhtar Nikakhtar, of Maryland, both to be an 
Assistant Secretary of Commerce, Bruce Landsberg, of South Carolina, to 
be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board, Raymond 
Martinez, of New Jersey, to be Administrator of the Federal Motor 
Carrier Safety Administration, and Diana Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, 
to be an Assistant Secretary, both of the Department of Transportation, 
and Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Director of the Amtrak 
Board of Directors; to be immediately followed by a hearing to examine 
protecting consumers in the era of major data breaches.


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 8, 
2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-106 to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Protecting Consumers in the Era of Major Data Breaches.''


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 8, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room SD-406 to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: 
Kathleen Hartnett White, of Texas, to be a Member of the Council on 
Environmental Quality, and Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Deputy 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
November 8, 2017, at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing on the nomination of 
Kirstjen Nielsen, of Virginia, to be Secretary of Homeland Security.


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 8, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SD-226 to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Impact of Lawsuits 
Abuse on American Small Businesses and Job Creators.''


                      committee on indian affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, November 8, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SD-628 to conduct a hearing on S. 465, ``Independent Outside Audit 
of Indian Health Service Act of 2017'' and S. 1400. ``Safeguarding 
Tribal Objects of Patrimony Act of 2017''.


            subcommittee on africa and global health policy

  The Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health Policy of the Committee 
on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, November 8, 2017, at 3 p.m. to conduct a closed 
hearing on Ambassador Haley's Recent Trip to Africa.

                          ____________________



