

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7001]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Burr, Mr. 
             Enzi, Mr. Roberts, and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 2059. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for a 90-day period for the determination of 
     whether a MIPS eligible professional or eligible hospital is 
     a meaningful EHR user and to remove the all-or-nothing 
     approach to meaningful use, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. McCAIN (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Young, Mr. Markey, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Booker, and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 2060. A bill to promote democracy and human rights in 
     Burma, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 2061. A bill to further deployment of Next Generation 9-
     1-1 services to enhance and upgrade the Nation's 9-1-1 
     systems, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 2062. A bill to require the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     convey at market value certain National Forest System land in 
     the State of Arizona; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 2063. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to submit to Congress certain documents relating to the 
     Electronic Health Record Modernization Program of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Young, 
             and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 2064. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to include canned, dried, frozen, and pureed 
     fruits and vegetables in the fresh fruit and vegetable 
     program; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Heller, and 
             Mr. Bennet):
       S. 2065. A bill to establish a demonstration program to 
     provide integrated care for Medicare beneficiaries with end-
     stage renal disease, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Ms. 
             Harris):
       S. 2066. A bill to provide housing and Medicaid assistance 
     to families affected by a major disaster, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CRAPO:
       S. 2067. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for coverage under the Medicare program of 
     certain DNA Specimen Provenance Assay clinical diagnostic 
     laboratory tests; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Thune, and 
             Mr. Daines):
       S. 2068. A bill to discourage litigation against the Forest 
     Service and the Bureau of Land Management relating to land 
     management projects, to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     to develop a categorical exclusion for covered vegetative 
     management activities carried out to establish or improve 
     habitat for greater sage-grouse and mule deer, to address the 
     forest health crisis on National Forest System land, to 
     expedite and prioritize forest management activities to 
     achieve ecosystem restoration objectives, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Durbin, 
             Mr. Franken, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders, 
             Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 2069. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to clarify the requirements for meeting the definition of the 
     term ``employee'', and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Tillis, Mr. Schumer, and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 2070. A bill to amend the Violent Crime Control and Law 
     Enforcement Act of 1994, to reauthorize the Missing 
     Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and to promote 
     initiatives that will reduce the risk of injury and death 
     relating to the wandering characteristics of some children 
     with autism; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2071. A bill to authorize the temporary entry into the 
     United States of alien crewmen employed on longline fishing 
     vessels originating in Hawaii, to ensure that such aliens 
     receive reasonable wages and working conditions, and to 
     provide for appropriate enforcement and oversight of fishing 
     companies employing such aliens; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Booker, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Tester, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, and Mr. Markey):
       S. 2072. A bill to amend the Toxic Substances Control Act 
     to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency to take action to eliminate human exposure to 
     asbestos, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. Gardner, and Mr. 
             Thune):
       S. 2073. A bill to establish a vegetation management pilot 
     program on National Forest System land to better protect 
     utility infrastructure from passing wildfire, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. HOEVEN:
       S. 2074. A bill to establish a procedure for the conveyance 
     of certain Federal property around the Jamestown Reservoir in 
     the State of North Dakota, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



