

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6764-S6765]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        TRIBUTE TO GLORIA TANNER

 Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I wish to honor the remarkable life 
of Senator Gloria Tanner.
  Throughout her career, Senator Tanner has excelled in the face of 
adversity and carried out her work with integrity, strength, grace, and 
humility. All of these qualities are rooted in a unique authenticity 
that she possesses, something that is seemingly lacking in today's 
politics.
  Born in Atlanta, GA, in 1934, Senator Tanner witnessed the growth of 
the civil rights movement firsthand. She rose to become the first 
African-American woman to serve as a Colorado State senator and the 
second African American to be elected to a leadership position in the 
Colorado House of Representatives, where she served for five terms and 
as the chair of the minority caucus.
  In 1974, Senator Tanner received a B.A. in political science and 
graduated magna cum laude from Metro State University of Denver. She 
subsequently received a master of arts in urban affairs at the 
University of Colorado in 1976 and graduated from the American 
Management Association Program for Women in Top Managerial Positions. 
She also graduated from the Women in Leadership Program at the John F. 
Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and the Leadership 
College, Executive Education, Keenan-Flagler Business School at 
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
  Senator Tanner became active in politics when she moved to Colorado 
in 1960 in unison with John F. Kennedy's election. She has served many 
roles in government, ranging from an administrative assistant to the 
Office of Hearings and Appeals at the U.S. Department of Interior, the 
executive assistant to Colorado Lieutenant Governor George L. Brown, to 
an elected member of the Colorado House of Representatives. In the 
Colorado House, she has served as chair of the minority caucus. She was 
also elected president of the National Organization of Black Elected 
Legislative-Women and served as an executive board member and 
chairperson of the finance committee of the National Black Caucus of 
State Legislators. She has also served on the Colorado Black Round 
Table, as a member of the Women's Forum of Colorado, and finally, as a 
Colorado State senator.
  Senator Tanner succeeded Regis Groff in 1994 and held a seat until 
2000.

[[Page S6765]]

Within her 6 years of service as a Colorado State senator, Senator 
Tanner sponsored legislation on key issues such as marital 
discrimination in the workplace and worked tirelessly for civil rights 
for women and minorities and parental rights for adoptive parents. She 
was one of six legislators selected to serve on the powerful joint 
budget committee. In serving on the JBC, Senator Tanner secured a 
quarter of a million dollars to help restore the town of Dearfield, CO, 
which was originally created to assist former slaves and their 
families. She was a strong legislative advocate for women and children 
throughout her service as a senator.
  In retirement, Senator Tanner continues to serve the public. In 2001, 
she established the Senator Gloria Tanner Leadership and Training 
Institute for Future Black Women Leaders of Colorado, FBWLOC. Senator 
Tanner believes the institute is ``essential to the well-being and 
growth of our community'' to identify, prepare, educate, and encourage 
Black women to take on leadership roles in the public and private 
sectors.
  Senator Tanner's contributions to our community and State are 
abundant and unprecedented. Through all of her life experiences, she 
has continued to serve the American people with unwavering integrity 
and grace. A recipient of the Martin Luther King Humanitarian Award, 
her success is immeasurable.
  We all owe a debt of gratitude and deep respect to Senator Gloria 
Travis Tanner for her life achievements and service to the people of 
Colorado. I thank her for her service to Colorado, our Nation, and I 
wish her the best in her future endeavors.

                          ____________________



