

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6858-S6859]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
closed session to conduct a briefing on Niger.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, at 
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: Brian D. 
Montgomery, of Texas, Robert Hunter Kurtz, of Virginia, and Suzanne 
Israel Tufts, of New York, each to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, at 9:45 
a.m., in room SD-366 to conduct a hearing.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. to 
hold a hearing.

[[Page S6859]]

  



          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., in room SD-430, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Exploring 
Free Speech on College Campuses''.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SD-226 to conduct a hearing on S.807 and the following 
nominations: Allison H. Eid, of Colorado, to be United States Circuit 
Judge for the Tenth Circuit, Stephanos Bibas, of Pennsylvania, to he 
United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, Liles Clifton Burke, 
to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of 
Alabama, Walter David Counts III, to be United States District Judge 
for the Western District of Texas, Michael Joseph Juneau, to be United 
States District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, A. Marvin 
Quattlebaum, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the District 
of South Carolina, Karen Gren Scholer, to be United States District 
Judge for the Northern District of Texas, Tilman Eugene Self III, to be 
United States District Judge for the Middle District of Georgia, and 
John F. Bash, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of 
Texas, Erin Angela Nealy Cox, to be United States Attorney for the 
Northern District of Texas, and R. Andrew Murray, to be United States 
Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina, all of the 
Department of Justice.


            Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, at 
11 a.m., in SR-428A to conduct a hearing entitled ``Strengthening the 
Entrepreneurial Ecosystem for Women''.


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, at 2 p.m., in room 
SH-219 to conduct a closed hearing.


       Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management

  The Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management of the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 26, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Improving Oversight of the 
Regulatory Process: Lessons from State Legislatures''.

                          ____________________



