

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6817-S6818]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Mr. Heller):

[[Page S6818]]

  S. 2006. A bill to require breast density reporting to physicians and 
patients by facilities that perform mammograms, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the ``Breast 
Density and Mammography Reporting Act,'' a simple, yet potentially 
life-saving solution to ensure that women receive their own medical 
information. I thank Senator Heller for working with me on this 
bipartisan bill and I appreciate Representatives DeLauro and 
Fitzpatrick for introducing a House companion to this legislation.
  We have accomplished so much in the treatment and diagnosis of breast 
cancer, and it still continues to be the second leading cause of death 
for women in the United States and the leading cause of cancer death 
among Hispanic women. Mammograms have aided tremendously in early 
detection efforts, helping many more women survive this diagnosis.
  For women with dense breast tissue, however, a mammogram may not be 
capturing the whole picture. Dense breast tissue and cancer tumors look 
similar on a mammogram and make cancer harder to detect in women with 
higher breast density. Unfortunately, many women are never told about 
their tissue density on the report they receive after their screening, 
even though it is assessed and reported to their health care provider. 
This leaves women unaware their mammogram could be missing signs of 
cancer. If a patient doesn't have information to begin with, how would 
she know to ask her doctor about what additional screening might be 
right for her?
  There is currently no Federal requirement for women to receive notice 
that they have dense breast tissue on their mammogram report. This bill 
would require that women be informed on the mammogram report, something 
they already receive, if they have dense breast tissue, as well as a 
recommendation that they talk with their health care provider to 
discuss any questions and if they might benefit from additional 
screening. The bill also requires the Department of Health and Human 
Services to focus on research and improved screening for patients with 
dense breast tissue.
  The bill does not impact State laws and simply sets a minimum Federal 
standard on a report that women already receive. Any State wishing to 
have additional reporting requirements would be able to do so. 
Withholding from women their own medical information just does not make 
sense. Having access to your breast tissue density could mean the 
difference between catching breast cancer early and surviving, or 
waiting until it's too late.
  This bipartisan bill has the support of major cancer organizations, 
including American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, Are You Dense 
Advocacy, Susan G. Komen, DenseBreast-info, Tigerlily Foundation, 
Prevent Cancer Foundation, Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered, Don't 
be a Chump! Check for a Lump!, Sharsheret, National Association of 
Nurse Practitioners in Women's Health, Black Women's Health Imperative, 
and Men Against Breast Cancer.
  I look forward to working with my colleagues on this important issue, 
and I urge my fellow Senators to cosponsor the Breast Density and 
Mammography Reporting Act. Thank you Mr. President and I yield the 
floor.

                          ____________________



