

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9900]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself and Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut):
       H.R. 4635. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to increase the number of peer-to-peer counselors 
     providing counseling for women veterans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Lee, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Speier, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Takano, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Polis, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. 
             Velazquez, and Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 4636. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend certain provisions of the renewable energy 
     credit, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr. Reichert):
       H.R. 4637. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to encourage retirement savings by modifying 
     requirements with respect to employer-established IRAs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. 
             Norton, Mrs. Comstock, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Pingree, Mr. McGovern, and 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 4638. A bill to establish a National Commission on 
     Fibrotic Diseases; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 4639. A bill to amend title 10 United States Code, to 
     establish a punitive article in the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice on domestic violence, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself, Mr. Wittman, and Mr. Scott 
             of Virginia):
       H.R. 4640. A bill to designate public colleges and 
     universities that provide research, data, and recommendations 
     on physical science, social science, economic analysis, 
     policy analysis, risk analysis, monitoring, predicting, and 
     planning for coastal flooding as National Centers of 
     Excellence in Coastal Flood Research and Education; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H.J. Res. 124. A joint resolution making further additional 
     continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2018, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, and in addition 
     to the Committees on the Budget, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H. Res. 662. A resolution emphasizing disapproval of six 
     anti-Israel United Nations resolutions and reaffirming United 
     States support for the State of Israel and its people; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr. Lynch, and Mr. Massie):
       H. Res. 663. A resolution urging the release of information 
     regarding the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks upon the 
     United States; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Sires, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Diaz-Balart, and Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida):
       H. Res. 664. A resolution calling for the immediate 
     extradition or rendering to the United States of convicted 
     felons William Morales, Joanne Chesimard, and all other 
     fugitives from justice who are receiving safe harbor in Cuba 
     in order to escape prosecution or confinement for criminal 
     offenses committed in the United States; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



