

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6938-S6944]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session and resume consideration of the Larsen 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Joan 
Louise Larsen, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the 
Sixth Circuit.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Democratic leader is recognized.


                      New York City Terror Attack

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I rise this morning with a heavy heart. 
My city, my dear city of New York, no stranger to terrorism, was once 
again its victim yesterday.
  Yesterday afternoon, a man deliberately drove a rented truck into 
groups of pedestrians and cyclists, killing eight and injuring about a 
dozen more. Some of the injured were schoolchildren. These people were 
biking or walking home, enjoying a brisk and beautiful New York autumn 
day. It is tragic. It leaves a hole in your stomach.
  Our hearts go out to the victims and their families, and we wish all 
of the injured a full and speedy recovery. We are also grateful--deeply 
grateful--to the New York Police Department and the first responders, 
especially Officer Ryan Nash, 28 years old, who was the first on the 
scene. He reacted quickly and decisively to bring down the attacker and 
bring him into custody. Who knows how much worse the tragedy would have 
been without his actions.
  As one of thousands of New Yorkers who regularly ride on the path 
where this attack took place--in the last month, I have ridden on it 
twice--it hits close to home. My daughter went to the school near the 
scene, Stuyvesant High School, and she used the bike path I don't know 
how many times. This is our territory, our home.
  The attacks are meant to confuse and terrorize, but, as the world 
learned after 9/11 and will learn again, New York doesn't scare easily. 
New Yorkers are resilient. We always bounce back. We won't let these 
terrorists get their way or affect our way of life. We will never let 
terror prevail.
  True to form--something that made my heart swell with pride--the New 
York City Halloween parade marched on last night. Thousands of school 
kids went right into Stuyvesant today. The terrorists cannot stop us. 
They cannot change our way of life. We love New York. We love America. 
That bond holds us together.


                         Antiterrorism Funding

  Now, I have seen the tweets from President Trump. After September 11, 
the first thing President Bush did was to invite Senator Clinton and me 
to the White House, where he pledged to do whatever was in his power to 
help our city. President Bush, in a moment of national tragedy, 
understood the meaning of his high office and sought to bring our 
country together.
  President Trump, where is your leadership?
  The contrast between President Bush's actions after 9/11 and 
President Trump's actions this morning could not be starker.
  Again, President Trump, where is your leadership?
  I would say in closing that I have always believed that immigration 
is good for America. I believe it today.
  President Trump, instead of politicizing and dividing America, which 
he always seems to do at times of national tragedy, should be bringing 
us together and focusing on the real solution--antiterrorism funding, 
which he proposed to cut in his most recent budget. So I am calling on 
President Trump to rescind his proposed cuts to this vital 
antiterrorism funding immediately. Our city relies on this funding to 
track potential terrorists and to snuff out attacks. The NYPD, which 
bravely and quickly responded to the scene yesterday and brought the 
mayhem to an end, depends on this antiterrorism funding to keep our 
city safe day in and day out. So, again, I am calling on the President 
to rescind his proposed cuts to this vital antiterrorism funding 
immediately.
  Instead of dividing, instead of politicizing, do something real, Mr. 
President. Restore these funds now.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, this week the Senate is moving through a 
series of votes to fill vacancies in the Federal appeals court. 
President Trump has nominated highly qualified, mainstream judges and 
legal scholars to do these jobs. Now, Democrats have responded once 
again with delay and with obstruction. It is clear to me that we need 
to change the rules in the Senate that govern how we debate nominations 
in this body. All year Democrats have been putting up roadblocks to 
nominations. They have forced the majority leader to file cloture so 
that

[[Page S6939]]

then we can confirm nominees like these four judges.
  As of last Friday, Democrats have forced the Senate to file cloture 
47 different times when we have had to have cloture votes on President 
Trump's nominees. There were only six cloture votes at this point for 
the previous four Presidents--five for Obama, none for George W. Bush, 
one for Bill Clinton, and none under the Presidency of George Herbert 
Walker Bush. These are the kind of hoops that the Democrats have been 
making the Senate jump through in an effort to confirm President 
Trump's nominees.
  The procedure has been set in place to allow for debate. Well, debate 
is a good thing in the Senate, as long as debate is actually occurring. 
It is a chance for Senators to stand up, to say what they like or what 
they don't like about a nominee. Now, if no one wants to debate, we 
should just move things along and have the vote. There is one Senate 
rule that allows for as much as 30 hours of debate time on Presidential 
nominations after we have actually had the cloture vote. Now, in 
reality, very little of that time that is spent on the Senate floor is 
actually being used for the debate. In the past, both sides would agree 
to waive the time requirements and to move on to other Senate business, 
which is what we need to do to get the country continuing to move 
forward. But what is happening now is that Democrats are insisting on 
cloture votes, and then they are insisting that we use hour after hour 
after hour, even when there is no one here to debate what is the issue 
or the person in front of us.
  It is time to end this pointless spectacle. The Senate used to be 
called the world's greatest deliberative body. Democrats have turned it 
into the world's most paralyzed deliberative body.
  We have more than 125 nominees for various jobs who have had hearings 
in committee, who have testified in committee, who have been voted on 
in committee, who have cleared through the entire committee-vetting 
process and are now waiting for a vote on the Senate floor--125 of 
them. Most of these people have bipartisan support. They will be 
confirmed easily and eventually. They should be confirmed immediately. 
There should be no reason for Democrats' stalling tactics except, once 
again, to slow down the pace of other progress in the Senate on 
legislative issues.
  Mr. President, look at what happened with one judge last week. It is 
a case you are very familiar with. Scott Palk was nominated by 
President Trump to serve on the U.S. district court. He had bipartisan 
support in the Judiciary Committee. He went to the committee, had a 
hearing in the committee, and with bipartisan support was voted out of 
the committee. That was in June--more than 4 months ago.
  Now, apparently that is not good enough for the Democrats--not at 
all. They are only interested in slowing down the work of the Senate. 
So we had a cloture vote on the nominee. It was 1 of the 47 cloture 
votes that we talked about. We had to have a cloture vote. Every 
Republican and 27 Democrats voted for him. So he had bipartisan 
support. We still had to allow all of this wasted time for the debate. 
We couldn't conduct any of the other business of the Senate during the 
time because the Democrats insisted that we use all of the debate time. 
Now, they could have very easily agreed to waive the rules, as we do, 
and go straight to a vote. We wanted to do that. The Democrats refused.
  So how much of that time--those 30 hours--did the Democrats actually 
spend on the floor debating this person's qualifications to be a 
Federal judge? How many of those 30 hours did the Democrats use? None. 
How many minutes did they use? None. Not one Democrat came to the floor 
of the Senate to talk about that judge. Not a single Democrat even 
bothered to say a word against his nomination. There were fewer than 20 
minutes of total talk on the floor of the Senate. Through hour after 
hour after hour of ongoing time, there were fewer than 20 minutes spent 
actually talking about the judge, and it was all spent in praise by the 
Republicans. We still had to run out the clock because that is the 
delay game the Democrats are playing in the Senate. The Senate had to 
waste hours and hours when we could have finished debating in less than 
20 minutes. The Democrats have done this same thing time after time 
after time, day after day, wasting day after day.
  Things take time in the Senate. We understand that. That is what the 
Founding Fathers had in mind when they formed the two bodies of 
Congress, the House and the Senate. There is no excuse, though, for 
Democrats abusing the process to make things take even longer. 
Democrats aren't using the rules for debate. They are not using the 
rules for deliberation. It is only for delay. It hasn't always been 
this way, and there is no reason it should continue to be this way.
  The Senate had a different standard for nominations a few years ago, 
and that was in the 113th Congress. In years 2013 and 2014, the Senate 
allowed just 2 hours of debate after cloture was invoked on nominations 
for district court judges. That is 2 hours more than the Democrats 
actually spent debating this judge's nomination last week. The rules 
said that we would have up to 8 hours to debate executive branch 
nominations below the Cabinet level. Then, for Cabinet Secretaries, for 
Justices on the Supreme Court, and for circuit courts, it was the full 
30 hours of debate. Thirty hours now is what we allow every nomination 
today, and Democrats have shown that in most cases it is far too much 
time because even though we have to spend all the time, they use very 
little of it talking about the nominees.
  We need a fair debate on every nomination. The procedure from 2013 
and 2014, with fair debate on nominations, is one that was fair. The 
way the Democrats are wasting time today to keep us from doing our work 
is not fair. I believe it is time to return to the rules for debating 
nominees that the Senate used 3 years ago. There will still be plenty 
of time for Senators to debate the nominees, to raise objections if 
there are any. Every Senator could be on the record. There are just a 
lot of hours that we could avoid that are being wasted today that could 
be used to do the people's business of this country. A President's 
nominations of qualified people to important jobs was never meant to be 
a tool for delay in the Senate or to be an obstruction the way the 
Democrats have been using it.
  Now, these rules that we used in 2013 and 2014 were the result of a 
compromise. Democrats controlled the Senate at the time. A Democrat, 
Barack Obama, was in the White House making the nominations, and 
Republicans agreed to make these changes to the rules. It was part of a 
bipartisan group, and I was part of that group. There were eight 
Senators. They worked on this compromise--four Republicans and four 
Democrats. Senator McCain and Senator Alexander were part of this 
group. Senator Schumer, who is now the Democrat leader, was part of 
this group. There was overwhelming support for these changes on both 
sides of the aisle.
  It is time to do it again. Let's change the Senate rules and go back 
to the process that Senator Schumer supported in 2013 and 2014. Today, 
the schedule allows us to do one or two nominations in a typical week. 
If we go back to the 2014 standard, we could clear multiple nominations 
in a day. The Republican Senate has been busy this year, and we have 
made progress on behalf of the American people. We have passed 15 
resolutions rolling back destructive, Obama-era regulations using the 
Congressional Review Act and signed into law by the President. We 
passed a budget that will help give Americans at home a raise by 
cutting their taxes and giving us an opportunity to do the kind of tax 
relief, tax reform, tax reductions, tax cuts that the American people 
are looking for. We need to do more. It is time for Democrats to stop 
abusing the rules just to delay the process. It is time to go back to 
the previous standard of debating nominations. It is time to pick up 
the pace and do the job the American people expect us to do.

  Now, if Democrats have a different approach and don't want to accept 
the standard of debate that was set in the previous Congress, then I 
believe it is time for us to force that change. If Democrats maintain 
their lockstep opposition to real progress on judicial vacancies and 
other nominees, we should give them a chance to vote on their continued 
obstruction. We can vote on these nominees in a straightforward

[[Page S6940]]

and efficient way or we can vote to return to the precedent of the 
113th Congress. That is the choice. Either way, it is time to vote.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                          Russia Investigation

  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, the magnitude of this moment should be 
apparent to all. A sitting U.S. President's campaign chief and his 
protege have been indicted for conspiring against the United States. 
Another campaign adviser has pleaded guilty for lying to the FBI about 
meetings with Russians. At those meetings, he illegally discussed 
obtaining dirt on the President's political opponent and emails that 
had been stolen.
  Two points need to be underscored for the American people. First, 
these indictments and conviction are a sober, shattering moment in 
American history. Second, all of us on both sides of the aisle should 
come together to support the work of the special counsel and assure 
that he is able to follow the facts and the law and all of the 
evidence, wherever they may lead.
  This moment will stand as a landmark in American history, just as 
many of the moments in Watergate did. This investigation has proceeded 
more quickly than Watergate did. John Mitchell was indicted in 1974 for 
conspiracy, perjury, and obstruction of justice. He was convicted a 
year later. That indictment took a year and a half of investigation. 
These indictments have occurred just 11 months after the election and 
barely 6 months after the beginning of the investigation.
  We know that the President's campaign hired two alleged criminals and 
one admitted criminal. Two of them were foreign agents, and the 
campaign was run by a Russian agent, unregistered, now charged with 
conspiring against the United States. He was supported by another 
Russian foreign agent who was also charged with the same 12 criminal 
counts. These two individuals, Paul Manafort and Rick Gates, were 
significant people in the Trump campaign.
  In the case of Gates, his influence continued through the early 
months of the new administration. Manafort ran Trump's campaign at its 
most critical point, and he organized and directed the 2016 Republican 
National Committee convention, including the critical delegate-
corralling effort against a potential ``Never Trump'' insurrection, 
securing the Republican nomination for Donald Trump.
  Under Manafort's leadership of the Trump campaign, the Republican 
Party stripped language from their platform that would have called for 
arming Ukraine against Russian aggression. Ahead of the convention, 
Manafort also offered to brief a Russian billionaire on the state of 
the 2016 race. The convention he helped organize became a venue for a 
meeting between Attorney General Sessions and the Russian ambassador, 
after which the Attorney General misled Congress, implying--indeed 
stating--that it never took place.
  The Trump campaign also worked extensively with George Papadopoulos, 
a foreign adviser whose actions constitute the most significant 
indication of possible collusion--so far the most significant--between 
the Trump campaign and Russian officials.
  Papadopoulos was named a foreign policy adviser in March 2016 and 
began communicating with Russian nationals the next month. He met with 
a professor for breakfast in London. They discussed stolen emails from 
Hillary Clinton and subsequently shuttled messages to the Kremlin and 
back for the Trump campaign.
  He worked with officials at the highest level of the Trump campaign. 
His direct boss, in fact, was Jeff Sessions, who was then the head of 
Trump's national security advisory committee, and he is now, of course, 
the Attorney General. He communicated extensively with the campaign 
manager and members of the national security team.
  President Trump tweeted today that he was a ``young, low level 
volunteer,'' but the President sang his praises at a meeting with the 
Washington Post editorial board in March 2016, calling him an ``energy 
and oil consultant, excellent guy.'' These revelations are stunning.
  Now the President is at a critical juncture. He can choose the course 
of cooperation or confrontation. He is literally teetering on the brink 
of a decision that could prove disastrous for himself and for America 
if he chooses a constitutional confrontation.
  We are at a moment very much like the one that occurred in Watergate. 
It is still memorable to many of us in this Chamber, although we were 
not here at the time. Our Nation could be careening toward a 
constitutional crisis. Some of the actions the President has already 
taken, such as firing Jim Comey as FBI Director, may be evidence of 
obstruction of justice in the investigation by the special counsel. As 
part of our oversight responsibility, the Judiciary Committee must 
continue its work in investigating that firing and other actions that 
may constitute obstruction of justice.
  Firing the special counsel himself is something only the President 
could try to do. It would be the ultimate act of contempt for the rule 
of law that is rightly seen as the actions of someone who has something 
to hide.
  At stake is more than just this President or this special counsel. It 
is literally the rule of law. To this President, the rule of law may be 
meaningless, a facade or a fiction, but that is exactly why Congress 
must give the judicial branch specific, enforceable power to stop the 
President from firing the special counsel.
  That is the purpose of legislation I have introduced, along with 
colleagues. I am here to call upon this body to support and pass the 
Special Counsel Independence Protection Act.
  I called for the special counsel to be established in February of 
this year and was joined by 10 of my colleagues in that call. It was 
based on credible allegations that the Trump team had colluded with the 
Russian Government. The Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, 
which I have cosponsored along with colleagues, seeks to forestall the 
kind of potential constitutional crisis raised by the President's 
threats not so long ago and his labeling the investigation a hoax and a 
witch hunt.
  The Washington Post reported today that advisers close to the 
President are urging that, in fact, he take more aggressive action 
against the special counsel. The specter of Presidential action against 
Robert Mueller, designed to stop or stymie a virtually unavoidable and 
necessary criminal investigation of the President himself, makes 
safeguarding the special counsel more urgent and necessary now than 
ever before.
  Rather than encouraging Presidential abuse of power by inaction, the 
Congress must move forward right away to check potential malfeasance 
and abuse before it occurs. Even the threat of such political 
interference constituting potential obstruction of justice undermines 
the special counsel's investigation. It makes witnesses less likely to 
cooperate. It discourages the agents and investigators working for the 
special counsel. It creates unnecessary confusion in the American 
public. Only judicial review can provide the check against such abuse 
and ensure confidence that the special counsel will proceed 
methodically and systematically to uphold the rule of law and follow 
the facts in evidence, wherever they may lead. That is what the 
American people want him to do. That is what we should guarantee that 
he will do. Make no mistake, this investigation will continue and 
conclude fairly and fully. The only question is how much turmoil and 
how much damage is done in the course of that investigation.
  Clearly, like any investigation and prosecution, this one is a 
mosaic, consisting of many different diverse pieces and already it is 
coming together on the Trump campaign's contacts with Russian 
officials. They include, for example, campaign adviser Papadopoulos's 
contacts with a Russian agent who claimed he had ``dirt'' on Hillary 
Clinton; Donald Trump, Jr., and the campaign aides' Trump Tower meeting 
with Russian agents to obtain information on Clinton; Jared

[[Page S6941]]

Kushner's meetings with sanctioned VEB Russian bank CEO Sergey Gorkov; 
Sessions' meetings with the Russian Ambassador; the Cambridge Analytica 
CEO's outreach to WikiLeaks to obtain Hillary Clinton's missing emails; 
and former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn's dining with 
President Putin in Moscow. Those pieces of the mosaic are only the 
beginning. We are at a critical stage--the end of the beginning, not 
the beginning of the end.
  As a former prosecutor, I know investigations take time. The best 
investigations are done without deadlines. In an important case like 
this one, and in a complex and challenging one, we must allow all the 
time necessary to assemble that full mosaic and put together the pieces 
of this puzzle.
  The Watergate scandal took 2 years to unravel, from Bob Woodward and 
Carl Bernstein's first piece in the Washington Post in June of 1972 to 
Nixon's resignation in August of 1974. We are less than a year into the 
Trump Presidency and fewer than 10 months into this investigation.
  The first individuals to be indicted in the Watergate scandal were 
considered to be generally outside the President's inner circle. They 
were E. Howard Hunt, G. Gordon Liddy, and the Watergate burglars in 
September of 1972. No one knew--and many denied--the conspiracy that 
involved the President and his top lieutenants at the time of those 
first indictments. In these cases, too--in these first indictments and 
conviction--a lot more is to come.
  We cannot wait until the President potentially shuts down his special 
counsel to come to his defense. Already, the rule of law is under 
threat. On Sunday--the day before the indictments were handed down--the 
President tweeted: ``DO SOMETHING!'' with regard to the Russia 
investigation. Although his reference was unclear exactly what he meant 
and whom the message was targeting, it certainly was an indication that 
some kind of action might be taken to thwart the investigation.
  Any interference in this investigation will be a red line for me and 
for others in this Chamber. Let the President hear that message loud 
and clear. There is a red line that cannot be crossed. It is political 
interference or intrusion in the special counsel's investigation, and 
it will be met with a firestorm, I hope, on both sides of the aisle. My 
conversations with our colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
indicate they would share our outrage and outcry if there is an effort 
to stop and stymie this investigation or if there is any other kind of 
political interference in it.
  Senators Graham, Booker, Whitehouse, Coons, and I have cosponsored 
measures that will help protect the special counsel. There are two 
measures now, but they are so closely similar that they should be 
brought together, and conversations are underway to do so. I expect we 
will have a single bill in the very near future.
  We should stand with one voice against obstruction of this 
investigation. I ask that my colleagues go on the record now to state 
that they will absolutely resist and oppose any interference by the 
executive branch into this investigation or investigations that are 
underway by our congressional committees--on the House side, the 
Intelligence Committee and, in the Senate, the Judiciary Committee 
along with our Intelligence Committee. The congressional committees 
have separate purposes. In the Judiciary Committee, we have the unique 
responsibility of oversight over the Department of Justice and the FBI. 
We have the unique responsibility to prevent the obstruction of justice 
and to uncover it, as is indicated by the firing of Jim Comey. My hope 
is that investigation will proceed and that it will be bipartisan, so 
we will have hearings and subpoena witnesses with public testimony 
under oath and eventually some report to the American people. That is 
my hope, and that will be our decision here.
  The decision we cannot and should not make is what the outcome will 
be of the special counsel investigation. We must guarantee--and we have 
this responsibility in the Congress--that there is adequate funding and 
authority for the special counsel, that there is no effort to either 
cut resources or limit the purview of the special counsel or place 
constraints on the time it may take for this probe to conclude. There 
should be no firing and no pardons, and we should speak out and stand 
up to assure that message reaches the White House loud and clear.
  This moment is one of historic magnitude. I cannot emphasize how 
strongly I feel but also how deeply my colleagues have expressed to me 
their own feelings about our responsibility in this moment.
  The grand jury that is bringing these indictments is an arm of the 
courts, which should be independent of both the executive and 
legislative branches. That independence gives the special counsel some 
new measure of permanence and protection, but the President can still 
try to fire the special counsel. He cannot fire the grand jury or the 
U.S. District Court judge who impaneled the grand jury. Judicial review 
of any firing of the special counsel, which is the core principle of 
our measure--the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act--would add 
a highly significant protection to not just deter misguided and deeply 
mistaken actions, throwing our Nation into turmoil, but also assuring 
that confidence and trust remains with the special counsel, and he can 
follow facts and the law with the full support of the American people. 
The American people can put their trust and faith in him and in our 
courts. We should assure that we uphold that faith and trust.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Washington.
  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sullivan). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                               Healthcare

  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, since day one, the President of the 
United States has made it clear that his top priority, when it comes to 
healthcare in our country, is to score political points by attacking 
ObamaCare. He has even said repeatedly that healthcare in our country 
will ``implode,'' but this was not just a prediction that President 
Trump made, it was his goal, and he has tried virtually everything he 
can do to make that implosion a reality.
  In January, he abruptly pulled funding for outreach days before the 
end of the 2017 open enrollment period without any analysis of how that 
might affect patients and families, and he signed executive orders 
specifically designed to inject uncertainty and increased costs into 
the healthcare system.
  President Trump then dedicated the spring and summer to attempting to 
jam partisan, extraordinarily destructive legislation through the House 
and Senate to repeal the Affordable Care Act, despite one independent 
analysis after another showing that each version of TrumpCare would 
cause premiums to spike, take coverage away from millions of people, 
rip protections away from patients with preexisting conditions, and gut 
Medicaid.
  This fall--after TrumpCare failed another time in the Senate--he 
slashed by 90 percent the investments that help inform families about 
their coverage options and followed through on his year-long threat to 
discontinue payments designed to lower out-of-pocket costs for low-
income enrollees.
  This is a scenario that healthcare experts said would cause mass 
consumer confusion and anxiety, one that insurance companies planned 
for by shifting that burden of uncertainty to patients and taxpayers in 
the form of higher premiums and fewer options in State marketplaces.
  Now, this is by no means the full list of ways President Trump has 
attempted his healthcare sabotage, but it does explain why we are here 
now. Today is the first day of the open enrollment period for 2018, and 
as a direct result of this President's actions, families are going to 
see higher premiums, more out-of-pocket costs, and fewer coverage 
options. Many families will have to change their coverage if they want 
to avoid paying hundreds of dollars more in premiums.
  At a time when we need to continue to do more to bend the healthcare 
cost curve in the right direction, taxpayers are being burdened with 
higher

[[Page S6942]]

healthcare costs to the Federal Government--not because of any 
improvement in quality or comprehensiveness, just because of the chaos 
this administration has caused.
  In fact, just last week, the Trump administration proposed a rule to 
double down on the sabotage in 2019 that would let insurers cover fewer 
services in addition to raising costs. I have to say, I just truly 
never imagined that a President of the United States would so openly 
and uncaringly root for the people of this country to be worse off. But 
that is exactly what President Trump is doing. It needs to be said, and 
it needs to be stopped.

  What makes this even more frustrating is that a lot of it could have 
been stopped months ago if Republican leaders hadn't insisted on trying 
to help this administration carry out its partisan, wrecking-ball 
healthcare strategy.
  Back in September, Chairman Alexander and I were very near agreement 
on a bipartisan bill to stabilize healthcare markets and protect 
families from higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs through regular 
order, through a process that actually engaged over half the Senate. We 
were on the verge of reaching an agreement when Republican leaders 
froze our negotiations. Why? In order to jam TrumpCare through the 
Senate one more time.
  Let me repeat that. Republican leaders hit the pause button on a 
bipartisan process that could have lowered premiums and stabilized 
markets, exposing our patients and families to the full impact of 
President Trump's sabotage.
  That is the bad news, but the good news is that the legislation 
Chairman Alexander and I ultimately agreed on can and will still have 
an impact--not just a few years from now but in 2018--if Republican 
leaders don't stand in the way again. Our bill would, among other 
priorities, continue out-of-pocket cost reduction payments and make 
sure that patients and families, not insurance companies, see the 
benefit of that certainty in the form of rebates next year. The 
legislation Chairman Alexander and I have proposed, with 12 Democratic 
and 12 Republican cosponsors, would do a lot to help us get things back 
on track. It would tie President Trump's hands on sabotage, and it 
would send a very powerful message that elected officials in Congress 
can work together to get things done when we focus on common ground 
rather than scoring political points.
  I would once again urge the majority leader to allow our legislation 
to get a vote. It has the support of 60-plus Senators, and it is 
growing. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has said that it 
provides billions in savings and would stabilize the markets this year 
and lower premiums in 2019. And the President told Chairman Alexander 
that he supports this process moving forward.
  There is no reason to wait. There is absolutely no excuse for 
inaction, and I am going to continue doing everything I can to make 
that clear until Republican leaders finally listen to the patients and 
families they serve.
  Mr. President, while I am here today, I also want to take a few 
minutes to speak on another way that I believe President Trump and 
Republicans are taking our country in a direction that is deeply 
harmful; that is, by stacking our courts with extreme conservative 
judges.
  The Senate this week is going to vote on four judicial nominees who 
each have the far-rightwing seal of approval. Two are on President 
Trump's short list for Supreme Court Justices, meaning they would 
automatically vote to overturn Roe v. Wade. Unfortunately, their views 
on many things--LGBTQ rights, sexual assault, criminal justice, and 
corporate interests--are just as deeply troubling. One of the nominees 
we are considering this week advocated for using electric shocks for 
criminal punishment, and two--Amy Barrett and Stephanos Bibas--were 
nominated only after Republicans blocked the nominations of Myra Selby 
and Rebecca Haywood--both who happen to be African-American women--to 
the respective benches.
  It is clear that as Republican leaders' list of legislative failures 
grows longer, their effort to enact their agenda by administrative 
action and by stacking the courts is only going to accelerate. That 
might appeal to extreme conservatives--in fact, I am pretty sure it 
does--but the truth is that whether it is healthcare or infrastructure 
or taxes, most people across the country really want to see Congress 
working together.
  I am going to continue doing everything I can to speak out and fight 
back against extreme, harmful steps that are being taken by this 
administration and allowed by Republican leaders here in Congress and 
also to show there is a better way to get things done--by working under 
regular order, across the aisle, and putting people, not politics, 
first. That is what families rightfully expect, and that is what we all 
should be focused on.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Hampshire.


                      New York City Terror Attack

  Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I would like to start my remarks this 
morning by offering my thoughts to the victims of yesterday's 
horrendous act of terror in New York City, my thanks to the first 
responders, and I would note the resiliency of the people of New York. 
Once again, they are going forward with their lives today, showing the 
world and anyone who would do us harm that Americans stand together and 
that we move forward regardless of what our foes may try to do.


                               Healthcare

  Mr. President, I also rise today to encourage Granite Staters--as my 
colleague from Washington did--and people across the country to take 
advantage of the health insurance open enrollment period, which begins 
today and runs through December 15.
  Every citizen deserves quality, affordable health insurance coverage 
to help them live healthy and productive lives. Access to healthcare is 
critical to the freedom, dignity, and well-being of our citizens, and 
it also contributes to a productive workforce and a thriving economy.
  I still remember meeting with a constituent named Jo, about a year or 
two ago, who has a chronic health condition. When she lost her job in 
2009 and lost her health insurance with it, her condition deteriorated 
to the point where she couldn't work, and a downward spiral ensued. She 
lost her home. She couldn't get healthcare because she had no 
resources. Because of the Affordable Care Act's Medicaid expansion, she 
was eventually able to get healthcare, to get the surgery and therapy 
she needed, and now she is working again. So healthcare is not only for 
the benefit of the individual who receives it; it helps that individual 
become a productive member of our workforce.
  Affordable, quality care is also critically important to those who 
are working but may not otherwise be able to afford health insurance 
even if employed. It is something I have heard often this year from 
citizens of my State, as my Republican colleagues attempted to pass 
TrumpCare legislation that would have led to higher healthcare costs 
for less care.
  At an emergency field hearing in June that I held with Senator 
Shaheen, we heard from a woman named Enna from Exeter, NH. Enna, who is 
self-employed, said that prior to the Affordable Care Act, her family 
was unable to maintain insurance consistently. Even when she did have 
it, her previous policy didn't cover critical preventive care that she 
needed. As a result of the ACA, Enna has been able to purchase 
affordable health insurance through the marketplace in New Hampshire 
for herself and her family of four, giving them the peace of mind that 
comes with having health insurance, while continuing to grow her own 
business.
  Enna's story is the story of so many people in New Hampshire, and it 
represents why it is essential for people across the country to take 
advantage of this open enrollment period.
  From today through December 15, Granite Staters and all Americans 
have an opportunity to sign up for a healthcare plan at 
www.coveringnewhampshire.org or www.healthcare.gov. It is also 
important for people to take this opportunity to see what other plans 
are available, to shop around and see whether other plans offer more 
savings than their current one does, and it is critical to educate our 
friends and neighbors about these options, given the Trump 
administration's attempts to sabotage our Nation's healthcare

[[Page S6943]]

system. These sabotage attempts include the Department of Health and 
Human Services slashing the Affordable Care Act's outreach and 
advertising budgets ahead of open enrollment, which provide key 
information and resources for those who need to sign up for care. It is 
clear that the Trump administration doesn't want people to know they 
can enroll, but that doesn't change the fact that the Affordable Care 
Act is the law of the land, people can still get covered, and financial 
assistance is available for many on the healthcare exchange.
  We must end this sabotage and continue to work together on efforts to 
lower costs and build on and improve the Affordable Care Act, and that 
is exactly what I am focused on.
  I was proud to join HELP Committee leaders, Senators Alexander and 
Murray, to cosponsor bipartisan legislation that would stabilize health 
insurance markets and lower costs for hard-working Americans. This bill 
includes a provision that the New Hampshire Insurance Department could 
use to support its proposal to create a reinsurance pool to help reduce 
premiums in our State's individual health insurance market. This 
legislation proves it is possible to work across party lines to make 
progress in our healthcare system. It is clear that it has the votes to 
pass. We need Republican leadership to bring it up for a vote.
  It is up to all of us to come together and make sure that healthcare 
is truly available and affordable to all of our people and to encourage 
our fellow citizens to sign up for the care they need to help their 
families thrive.
  The enrollment period is a critical time for the health and well-
being of our citizens and for our productivity, as well, as a country. 
I encourage Granite Staters to take advantage of this opportunity and 
receive the benefits that come with affordable healthcare.
  Mr. President, I also want to take a moment to address the continued 
efforts this week from President Trump and my Republican colleagues to 
push through nominees who will truly reshape our Federal judiciary.
  An independent and impartial judiciary is critical to democracy and 
to our march toward progress. Our Founders established our court system 
to serve as an independent arbiter that would protect the rights of all 
Americans and ensure equal justice under our laws. Unfortunately, the 
nominees who have been selected by the President and who have been 
voted on throughout this year have been handpicked by far-right groups 
to serve a conservative agenda. We have seen judicial nominees who have 
not committed to upholding the precedent of Roe v. Wade and protecting 
a woman's right to make her own healthcare decisions and control her 
own destiny in doing so, nominees who have stood against basic rights 
and freedoms for LGBTQ Americans and who have opposed protections for 
workers' rights. This is unacceptable.
  We are voting on lifetime appointments that require a commitment to 
equal justice, objectivity, and sound judgment. I will continue to 
oppose judicial nominees who do not live up to those standards, and I 
urge my colleagues to do the same.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, there is now 30 
minutes of postcloture time remaining, equally divided between the two 
leaders or their designees, prior to a vote on confirmation of the 
Larsen nomination.
  The Senator from Iowa.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, it is my understanding that I have 25 
minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa is recognized.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I would like to address the issue we are 
voting on in a few minutes. The Senate will vote on the nomination of 
Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen to serve on the Sixth 
Circuit Court of Appeals.
  Though she currently lives in Michigan, Justice Larsen was born in 
and hails from my State of Iowa. In fact, she and I share the same alma 
mater, the University of Northern Iowa, for our bachelor's degrees. I 
have also learned, since meeting Justice Larsen, that her father was 
the longtime CEO of the Lutheran Services in Iowa. He is now retired, 
but during the time he was the CEO, he was the very same person with 
whom I often met for breakfast when he would come to Washington to tell 
us about the concerns of the Lutheran Services in Iowa. At that time, I 
never knew I might be speaking in favor of his daughter. I didn't even 
know of his daughter at that time. So I am proud to see a fellow Iowan 
and such an eminently qualified nominee be nominated to the Sixth 
Circuit Court of Appeals.
  For those who may not be familiar with her career and 
accomplishments, a few minutes will give me an opportunity to share 
them with you. I think you will find, as I have, that Justice Larsen is 
particularly well suited to serve as a Federal appellate judge.
  Justice Larsen has an outstanding academic record, having received 
numerous awards during her undergraduate and law school careers. 
Justice Larsen was a Presidential Scholar at the University of Northern 
Iowa and graduated with the highest honors. She graduated first in her 
class at the Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, where she 
won the Justice John Paul Stevens Award for Academic Excellence and 
served as editor of the Northwestern University Law Review.
  She began her legal career as a clerk for Judge Sentelle on the DC 
Circuit Court of Appeals and then clerked for Justice Scalia on the 
U.S. Supreme Court. Following her clerkships, Justice Larsen joined the 
DC firm of Sidley Austin, one of the largest law firms in the United 
States. Justice Larsen spent 2 years as Deputy Assistant Attorney 
General for the Office of Legal Counsel, where she provided legal 
advice to the President and executive agencies on difficult issues of 
constitutional and statutory interpretation.
  Justice Larsen has taught constitutional law and criminal law at the 
University of Michigan Law School since 1998, where she has earned the 
respect of faculty members and students alike. She won the L. Hart 
Wright Award for Excellence in Teaching early in her teaching career. 
In addition to her teaching responsibilities, Justice Larsen ran 
Michigan's clerkship program, helping hundreds of students and alumni 
pursue clerkships at the Federal and State levels. As an adjunct 
professor, she continues to run the law school's Moot Court Program.
  Her colleagues at the University of Michigan praised Justice Larsen 
and wrote:

       Even among the talented and ambitious lawyers at an elite 
     law school, Joan stands out for her ability to make the 
     penetrating insight that untangles some knotty problem of 
     statutory interpretation or judiciary doctrine. Especially 
     distinctive, moreover, is the rigor and even-handedness she 
     brings to her analysis.

  I will share one more example from that letter because I think it 
addresses some of my colleagues' concerns, who are on the other side of 
the aisle, as to her approach to the law.
  Her colleagues wrote:

       For those of us who have found ourselves on the opposite 
     side of a debate with Joan about a case, a statute, or some 
     broader issue of constitutional history, she has demonstrated 
     time and again that she is both a gracious and intellectually 
     honest partner in the collaborative project of figuring 
     things out. What matters for Joan is not winning but working 
     out the right answer.

  Now I bring emphasis to this last sentence.

       Even when you disagree with her, it is impossible not to 
     respect her and to take pleasure in the process of refining 
     the issues actually in dispute.

  In other words, as I see it, Justice Larsen is and will be a jurist 
who seeks to find the right answer, never simply one she prefers as a 
matter of policy.
  We can already see from her time on the Michigan Supreme Court that 
Justice Larsen is a principled jurist with an impressive legal acumen. 
She has served with distinction on that court since she was appointed 
in 2015. It happens that she was elected to the position in 2016, in 
her own right, by a resounding majority, winning every county in 
Michigan. Colleagues on the court have praised her sharp legal 
analysis, her clear and crisp writing, and, most importantly, her work 
ethic.
  Outside the courtroom, Justice Larsen is actively involved in 
volunteer efforts to serve disadvantaged children, and she works with 
Michigan's veterans, drugs, sobriety, and mental health court programs.
  Some of my colleagues have said they will not support the nomination

[[Page S6944]]

because Justice Larsen was included on President Trump's short list for 
the Supreme Court. Is there anything wrong with the President 
suggesting whom he is going to put on the Supreme Court if he is 
elected President? If you look at her background, it should be no 
surprise that she was included on that list. She is an accomplished 
legal academic, a mainstream jurist, and is well respected on a 
bipartisan basis throughout the legal community.
  Because my colleagues have been concerned about everyone on that 
list, at her hearing, I asked Justice Larsen when she learned that her 
name was on that list. She replied: ``The date it was announced . . . 
it was a complete surprise to me.''
  I also asked her about judicial independence and whether she could 
rule against the President who nominated her.
  She replied:

       I would have no trouble ruling against the President who 
     appointed me or any successor President as well. Judicial 
     independence means one thing, one very simple thing--

  At this point I want to emphasize--

     and that is putting the law above everything else, the 
     statutes passed by this body, and the Constitution of the 
     United States. So I would have absolutely no trouble, and, 
     indeed, that would be my duty.

  Here is the most outrageous reason I have heard for voting against 
Justice Larsen. This should surprise a lot of people. Some in the 
minority have suggested that she is somehow responsible for outside 
groups running ads that support her nomination in Michigan. The claim 
that she is responsible for the action of an outside group is 
ridiculous, and the allegation that these ads are in some way a 
guarantee of how she will rule in the future is the most absurd thing I 
have heard based upon her answers to my questions.
  I find it interesting that my colleagues who are complaining about 
conservative groups do not seem to have the same concern for groups on 
the left that are spending money in opposition to these nominees. One 
such group, Alliance for Justice, routinely issues reports and press 
releases on judicial nominees. Oftentimes, these so-called reports put 
forward incendiary and false criticisms of these nominees. My 
colleagues even make the same incendiary attacks against the nominees 
as these outside groups do. In other words, they use the same talking 
points. I do not hear that my colleagues on the other side are up in 
arms about their spending millions of dollars to oppose nominees.
  Of course, some may remember that last year groups on the left 
coordinated attacks on this Senator. I was followed all over Iowa by 
these groups and their members. They ran ads against me and put up 
billboards that opposed my election, and that had something to do with 
the Supreme Court, as one might recall. I don't remember hearing any of 
my colleagues on the other side of the aisle complain about all of the 
money those groups were spending at that time.
  As I have said before, I expect that outside groups on the left and 
on the right want to have their voices heard in the nomination process. 
Isn't that something to do with what we call democracy, representative 
government, freedom of speech, freedom of association? There is nothing 
wrong with that, whether it is done by the right or the left, but I 
take issue with complaints from the other side that do not acknowledge 
that all sides have interest groups that are spending and engaging in 
the judicial nomination process. It was completely appropriate for 
Justice Larsen not to wade in on the political debate regarding those 
political ads. Her answers to those questions were exactly what I would 
expect an independent nominee to say, particularly if she wants to be 
independent of any President who appoints her when she is appointed to 
the bench.
  Justice Larsen's nomination is supported by a broad and diverse 
coalition of lawyers, judges, and academic colleagues. It is easy to 
see why, for she is an accomplished and well-respected academic. She is 
a brilliant and independent jurist. Her careful and well-reasoned legal 
analysis puts her squarely within the mainstream of legal thought. I 
urge my colleagues, in a few minutes, to vote for her nomination.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I yield back all time.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time is yielded back.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Larsen 
nomination?
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk called the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. 
McCaskill) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) are 
necessarily absent.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lankford). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 60, nays 38, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 257 Ex.]

                                YEAS--60

     Alexander
     Barrasso
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Burr
     Capito
     Carper
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Fischer
     Flake
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCain
     McConnell
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Scott
     Shelby
     Stabenow
     Strange
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Warner
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--38

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Brown
     Cantwell
     Cardin
     Casey
     Coons
     Cortez Masto
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Feinstein
     Franken
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Hirono
     Kaine
     King
     Klobuchar
     Leahy
     Markey
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--2

     McCaskill
     Menendez
       
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President 
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



