

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 201 (Monday, December 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7945-S7946]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 633

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 633, a bill 
to amend the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 to apply 
whistleblower protections available to certain executive branch 
employees to legislative branch employees, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1421

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1421, a bill to 
support educational entities in fully implementing title IX and 
reducing and preventing sex discrimination in all areas of education.


                                S. 1570

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1570, a bill to 
improve Federal population surveys by requiring the collection of 
voluntary, self-disclosed

[[Page S7946]]

information on sexual orientation and gender identity in certain 
surveys, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1730

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1730, a bill to implement policies to end 
preventable maternal, newborn, and child deaths globally.


                                S. 1978

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1978, a bill to delay the 
annual fee on health insurance providers until 2020 and to make such 
fee tax deductible.


                                S. 2076

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey) were added as cosponsors of S. 2076, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to authorize the expansion of activities related to 
Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and brain health under the 
Alzheimer's Disease and Healthy Aging Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2088

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner), the Senator from 
Alabama (Mr. Strange) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2088, a bill to amend title 10, United States 
Code, to provide for the issuance of the Gold Star Installation Access 
Card to the surviving spouse, dependent children, and other next of kin 
of a member of the Armed Forces who dies while serving on certain 
active or reserve duty, to ensure that a remarried surviving spouse 
with dependent children of the deceased member remains eligible for 
installation benefits to which the surviving spouse was previously 
eligible, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2101

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2101, a bill 
to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the crew of the 
USS Indianapolis, in recognition of their perseverance, bravery, and 
service to the United States.


                                S. 2125

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2125, a bill to improve the 
State response to the opioid abuse crisis.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis), the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the 
Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added as cosponsors of S. 2152, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to provide for assistance for 
victims of child pornography, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2159, a bill to 
require covered harassment and covered discrimination awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered harassment and covered discrimination complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 30

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 30, 
a concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress with respect 
to United States policy toward Tibet and that the treatment of the 
Tibetan people should be an important factor in the conduct of United 
States relations with the People's Republic of China.


                              S. RES. 220

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 220, a resolution 
expressing solidarity with Falun Gong practitioners who have lost 
lives, freedoms, and rights for adhering to their beliefs and practices 
and condemning the practice of non-consenting organ harvesting, and for 
other purposes.

                          ____________________



