

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9844-H9845]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. NUNES (for himself and Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4616. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to provide for a temporary moratorium on 
     the employer mandate and to provide for a delay in the 
     implementation of the excise tax on high cost employer-
     sponsored health coverage; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mrs. Walorski, and Mr. 
             Kustoff of Tennessee):
       H.R. 4617. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for a temporary moratorium on the medical 
     device excise tax; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas:
       H.R. 4618. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for a temporary moratorium on certain taxes 
     affecting purchases of prescription medication; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, and Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico):
       H.R. 4619. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to provide temporary relief from the 
     annual fee imposed on health insurance providers, to the 
     extent that such fee is due to Puerto Rican health insurance; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 4620. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to provide temporary relief from the 
     annual fee imposed on health insurance providers; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. Cohen, and 
             Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 4621. A bill to galvanize United States Government 
     programs in support of brain health for global victims of 
     autism, hydrocephalus and Alzheimer's and other forms of 
     dementia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr. DeSaulnier):
       H.R. 4622. A bill to reduce the number of preventable 
     deaths and injuries caused by underride crashes, to improve 
     motor carrier and passenger motor vehicle safety, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ROKITA:
       H.R. 4623. A bill to require each Executive agency to 
     reduce the workforce of the agency after the enactment of a 
     law that requires the consolidation or elimination of a 
     program or project within the agency, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Takano, Mr. Gutierrez, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Al Green 
             of Texas, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 4624. A bill to amend section 240(c)(7)(C) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the time limit 
     on the filing of a motion to reopen a removal proceeding if 
     the basis of the motion is fraud, negligence, 
     misrepresentation, or extortion by, or the attempted, 
     promised, or actual practice of law without authorization on 
     the part of, a representative; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Olson, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             and Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4625. A bill to require the Secretary of Commerce to 
     establish the Federal Advisory Committee on the Development 
     and Implementation of Artificial Intelligence, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     Education and the Workforce, Foreign Affairs, the Judiciary, 
     and Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Cohen, 
             Ms. Lee, and Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 4626. A bill to preserve knowledge and promote 
     education about jazz in the United States and abroad; to the 
     Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself, Mr. Payne, Mr. McCaul, and 
             Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 4627. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to authorize expenditures to combat emerging terrorist 
     threats, including vehicular attacks, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. GIBBS:
       H.R. 4628. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to allow for modified permits for industrial 
     minerals remining operations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 4629. A bill to direct the Department of 
     Transportation to issue regulations to require enhanced 
     security measures for shipments of security sensitive 
     material, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.

[[Page H9845]]

  

           By Mr. PEARCE:
       H.R. 4630. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     ensure military airports are eligible for certain grant 
     funds; to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Brat, Mr. Cooper, and 
             Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 4631. A bill to require the Director of the Government 
     Publishing Office to establish and maintain a website 
     accessible to the public that allows the public to obtain 
     electronic copies of all congressionally mandated reports in 
     one place, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 4632. A bill to count revenues from military and 
     veteran education programs toward the limit on Federal 
     revenues that certain proprietary institutions of higher 
     education are allowed to receive for purposes of section 487 
     of the Higher Education Act of 1965, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Armed Services, and Veterans' 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WOMACK (for himself, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Russell, and Mr. Carter of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 4633. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     permit individuals who are eligible for assistance under a 
     Department of Defense educational assistance program or 
     authority to use such tuition assistance for licensing and 
     certification programs offered by entities other than an 
     institution of higher education; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. Fortenberry, and Mr. 
             Smith of Nebraska):
       H. Res. 656. A resolution honoring the 100th anniversary of 
     Boys Town; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H. Res. 659. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to establish a point of order against 
     legislation that cuts Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid 
     benefits; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Beyer, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             McEachin, Mr. McGovern, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Rush, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Soto, Mr. Tonko, and Ms. Gabbard):
       H. Res. 660. A resolution recognizing the 2d anniversary of 
     the adoption of the international Paris Agreement on climate 
     change; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Mr. Sherman, Mr. Engel, Mr. Royce of California, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Yoho, and Mr. Rohrabacher):
       H. Res. 661. A resolution reaffirming the commitment of the 
     United States to promote democracy, human rights, and the 
     rule of law in Cambodia; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
     and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



