

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9808-H9809]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




DIRECTING SECRETARY OF ENERGY TO REVIEW AND UPDATE REPORT ON ENERGY AND 
     ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS OF RE-REFINING OF USED LUBRICATING OIL

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 1733) to direct the Secretary of Energy to review and update a 
report on the energy and environmental benefits of the re-refining of 
used lubricating oil.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1733

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. ENERGY SAVINGS FROM LUBRICATING OIL.

       Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of Energy, in cooperation with the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall--
       (1) review and update the report prepared pursuant to 
     section 1838 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005;
       (2) after consultation with relevant Federal, State, and 
     local agencies and affected industry and stakeholder groups, 
     update data that was used in preparing that report; and
       (3) prepare and submit to Congress a coordinated Federal 
     strategy to increase the beneficial reuse of used lubricating 
     oil, that--
       (A) is consistent with national policy as established 
     pursuant to section 2 of the Used Oil Recycling Act of 1980 
     (Public Law 96-463); and
       (B) addresses measures needed to--
       (i) increase the responsible collection of used oil;
       (ii) disseminate public information concerning sustainable 
     reuse options for used oil; and
       (iii) promote sustainable reuse of used oil by Federal 
     agencies, recipients of Federal grant funds, entities 
     contracting with the Federal Government, and the general 
     public.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Upton) and the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Rush) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.


                             General Leave

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
insert extraneous material in the Record on the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Michigan?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, this bill, H.R. 1733, was introduced by Energy and 
Commerce Committee member Susan Brooks from Indiana on March 27 of this 
year. The legislation went through regular order, and it was reported 
by the full committee, without amendment, by a voice vote.
  This bill, H.R. 1733, requires the Secretary of Energy to review and 
update a report on the energy and environmental benefits of re-refining 
used lubricating oil. The bill reauthorizes a study that was previously 
directed under the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
  We know that recycling used lubricating oil provides environmental 
benefits. It does, in fact, reduce energy consumption, and, yes, it 
produces high-quality products for consumers.
  H.R. 1733 is a good bipartisan bill. I want to thank Mrs. Brooks for 
her hard work on this important issue and the other side of the aisle 
for working with us to bring the bill to the floor this afternoon.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 1733, 
and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1733, which would 
update a 2006 Department of Energy report on the energy and 
environmental benefits of re-refining used lubricating oil.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1733 represents a commonsense bill aimed at saving 
energy and protecting the environment by finding additional ways to 
reuse lubricating oil.
  Mr. Speaker, these measures may include increasing the collection of 
used oil, distributing public information on sustainable reuse, and 
encouraging the recycling of used oils.
  Mr. Speaker, the U.S. is responsible for almost one-quarter of the 
global lubricating oil market; however, unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, we 
are currently behind our European counterparts in our ability to 
recycle this product.
  Mr. Speaker, this bill will help conserve energy and protect the 
environment by providing a Federal strategy to re-refine lubricating 
oil that can be used in all different types of gas and diesel engines.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to commend my colleague from the Energy and 
Commerce Committee, Mrs. Brooks from Indiana, for sponsoring this 
bipartisan bill, and I urge all my colleagues to support this 
legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Indiana (Mrs. Brooks), who is a member of the committee and the author 
of this bill.

                              {time}  1345

  Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in favor of H.R. 1733.
  Like many Hoosiers, I believe in the value of recycling and the 
benefits it brings to Indiana and our country. This bill would help us 
understand how we can better recycle lubricating oil.
  H.R. 1733 requires a 2006 study mandated by the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 be updated to reflect current information about the benefits or 
re-refined lubricating oil and how its production and use could be 
increased in the country.
  Re-refining removes contaminants from the oil and blends additives to 
restore the oil to its original effectiveness. Used oil can be re-
refined infinitely and is suitable for use in many types of gas and 
diesel engines. In fact, the Federal Government already requires re-
refined oil to be used within many agencies' vehicle fleets and many 
State and local governments require its use as well.
  Ensuring that Congress has up-to-date data on the value of recycled 
oil will allow legislators to make smarter decisions when developing 
environmental and energy policies moving forward. By updating this 
study, companies across the country that produce re-refined oil, like 
Indiana's own Crystal Clean, will have a better understanding of the 
latest trends regarding this product and how they can better anticipate 
the needs of the Federal Government.
  I am proud to say that Members on both sides of the aisle supported 
this bill when it passed through the Energy and Commerce Committee 
because it is environmentally conscious and supports an all-of-the-
above energy strategy.
  I thank my colleague, the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Kennedy) 
for his continued support on this bill, and the Ranking Member on the 
Energy Subcommittee, Mr. Rush, as we introduced this together earlier 
this year to move this through committee.

[[Page H9809]]

  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this measure.
  Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. I would remind my 
colleagues that this is a bipartisan bill. I would like to think we can 
pass this on a voice vote. I, again, commend the gentlewoman from 
Indiana, our committee, and the staff for getting this done. We hope 
that the Senate will take it up soon.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Upton) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1733.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



