

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7985-H7986]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1115
 HONORING THE DISCOVERY OF HERNANDO DE SOTO'S 1539 ENCAMPMENT AND THE 
                  LOST NATIVE AMERICAN TOWN OF POTANO

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Yoho) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the discovery of 
Hernando de Soto's 1939 encampment and the lost Native American town of 
Potano, by the University of Florida professors, Dr. Fred White and Dr. 
Michele White, and University of Florida honor student Ethan White. 
This newly discovered archaeological site is the oldest confirmed New 
World contact site in the United States.
  In one of the most important events in U.S. history, de Soto was the 
first European to discover the Mississippi River and explore an area 
that today would hold 10 States. Until this incredible archaeological 
discovery, there was no physical evidence of de Soto's 4,000-mile 
journey. The collection of artifacts recovered near Orange Lake, 
Florida, includes very rare King Ferdinand coins, Queen Isabella coins, 
and a King Enrique IV of Castile coin that is the oldest dated European 
artifact ever unearthed in the United States.
  Other rare items include Murano glass beads and Spanish weapons and 
armor dated from the early 1500s. The artifacts were excavated in the 
lost ancient Native American town of Potano. Also discovered in the 
town of Potano were the remains of the first location of the San 
Buenaventura Franciscan mission built there in the 1580s. Within the 
floors of the 16th century mission, the team discovered the largest 
cache of medieval coins found in the American mainland so far.
  Acknowledgment for confirmation and identification of the artifacts 
goes to a large and diverse group of scholars throughout the country. 
The recent scientific findings were published in the peer-reviewed 
International Journal of Archaeology and with the Florida Department of 
State, Division of Historical Resources, Bureau of Archaeological 
Research in Tallahassee, Florida. The collection of artifacts is at the 
Florida Museum of Natural History on the campus of my alma mater, the 
University of Florida.


                          National Farmers Day

  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, additionally, I would like to recognize today 
is National Farmers Day, a day when we say thanks to all of our farmers 
and ranchers for the work they do. Our agricultural industry, in a lot 
of ways, is the backbone of this country. It feeds our Nation and a big 
portion of the world, and accounts for 11 percent of overall 
employment.
  Most people don't realize how farmers affect their life, but it is 
important to reflect on the interdependence between rural and urban 
life.
  People often associate Florida with tourism, but agriculture is 
actually

[[Page H7986]]

Florida's number two industry, utilizing one-third of Florida's 
available land. Without agriculture, urban developments--in fact, all 
developments--could not flourish. There is a simple symbiotic 
relationship between families and communities, and that is, if you are 
hungry, you are going to eat. Every time you get hungry you think about 
your farmer, so thank a farmer today.


                     Honoring the Life of Bud Adams

  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, it is fitting on National Farmers Day that I 
am able to rise and honor a true Florida legend, Mr. Bud Adams of Fort 
Pierce, Florida, and his contributions to the Florida cattle industry. 
He is an icon in Florida and the Nation's cattle industry.
  Mr. Adams was a pioneer, a wildlife photographer, but more than 
anything else, he was a true American pioneer and cattle rancher. He 
was a real American cowboy in Florida, and they are known in Florida as 
Florida crackers. That name is derived from the sound of a bullwhip 
when it is used to round up and herd cattle.
  After a stint in the Navy during World War II, Mr. Adams returned 
home to work and grow the family ranch. For the past 80 years, you 
could find Mr. Adams on horseback surveying the land and the cattle 
that they raised. He was a strong advocate for conservation and was 
nationally recognized for his leadership in preserving the land for 
future generations.
  Even more so, Mr. Adams is known for creating the Braford breed of 
cattle, which is a cross between the Brahman cattle and the Hereford 
cattle, a heat-tolerant, heavy-beef-producing cow, ideal for the 
Florida climate. Mr. Adams was rightfully proud of this breed and went 
on to help found the United Braford Breeders Association.
  Additionally, Mr. Adams was a proud member of the Florida Cattlemen's 
Association. He served as the president in 1958, and, for the last 59 
years, he was always willing to offer a helping hand to the new Florida 
Cattlemen's leadership.
  Mr. Adams will always be remembered for the impact he had on the 
Florida cattle industry and his willingness to nurture future 
generations of Florida cattlemen. He will be greatly missed.

                          ____________________



