

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8300-H8301]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RUTHIE AND CONNIE LGBT ELDER AMERICANS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Oregon (Ms. Bonamici) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Ruthie and 
Connie LGBT Elder Americans Act, legislation I am introducing to 
support our country's LGBT seniors.
  The LGBT senior population is growing and is estimated to include 
nearly 6 million Americans by 2030. Unfortunately, the same generation 
of LGBT people who fought for rights in the workplace, equal marriage, 
and societal recognition are once again marginalized as they age.
  LGBT seniors have fewer support services, higher poverty rates, more 
social isolation, and inadequate access to healthcare services compared 
to the rest of older Americans. One of the primary barriers to 
providing services to LGBT seniors is a basic lack of information.
  The Older Americans Act, or OAA, already requires the Administration 
on Aging to collect data on the individuals receiving OAA services and 
the efficacy of OAA programs; but if we collected data on sexual 
orientation and gender identity, we could better understand this 
population and provide services that best fit their needs.
  Unfortunately, the data we do have shows that the poverty rate is 
higher for LGBT seniors, which is likely because many have faced 
discrimination while working, they have historically been unable to 
legally marry, and they have experienced gender and racial 
inequalities. We also know that LGBT elders are less likely than their 
peers to have community support and caretakers to help them.
  I know from speaking with LGBT seniors that many fear discrimination 
when receiving home healthcare services. They are twice as likely to be 
single and four times more likely to not have children. These are 
complex and important issues that require a personalized solution.
  The bill I am introducing today with Colorado Senator Michael Bennet 
and Florida Representatives Ted Deutch and Charlie Crist would help 
bridge the gap between LGBT seniors and the services they need.
  The bill is named for Ruthie Berman and Connie Kurtz, who sued the 
New York City Board of Education years ago for domestic partner 
benefits, and won their landmark case in 1994. In the decades since, 
Ruthie and Connie have continued their advocacy and fight as champions 
of LGBT rights.
  Our bill would amend the Older Americans Act to improve services for 
LGBT seniors and require data collection on sexual orientation so 
better decisions can be made.
  Additionally, the bill would permanently establish a National 
Resource Center on LGBT Aging and provide grants for organizations 
working to improve LGBT services, including access to healthcare and 
long-term care. The resource centers and the grants will help States 
and localities reach out to LGBT older adults and provide culturally 
competent support.
  By requiring specific consideration for LGBT seniors in the Older 
Americans Act, we can provide needed support to a vulnerable yet 
overlooked population.

[[Page H8301]]

  I thank my colleagues for their work on this important issue, and I 
hope many others will join us in supporting this bill to help our LGBT 
senior communities.

                          ____________________



