

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 167 (Tuesday, October 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6453-S6455]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 21

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 21, a bill to amend chapter 
8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide that major rules of the 
executive branch shall have no force or effect unless a joint 
resolution of approval is enacted into law.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to 
prohibit the conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration 
of war by Congress.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient 
rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill 
to amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize 
States to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical 
conditions through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 470

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 470, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to enhance the Child and Dependent Care 
Tax Credit and make the credit fully refundable.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to 
limit the authority of States to tax certain income of employees for 
employment duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 640

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 640, a bill to 
prioritize funding for an expanded and sustained national investment in 
biomedical research.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 835

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 835, a bill 
to require the Supreme Court of the United States to promulgate a code 
of ethics.


                                 S. 876

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 876, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to recognize Indian tribal governments 
for purposes of determining under the adoption credit whether a child 
has special needs.


                                 S. 937

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 937, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to provide for a refundable adoption tax credit.


                                 S. 978

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 978, a bill to direct 
the Secretary of Education to establish an award program recognizing 
excellence exhibited by public school system employees providing 
services to students in prekindergarten through higher education.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the 
ability of community financial institutions to foster economic growth 
and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1015

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1015, a bill to 
require the Federal Communications Commission to study the feasibility 
of designating a simple, easy-to-remember dialing code to be used for a 
national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system.


                                S. 1022

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1022, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to facilitate assignment of military trauma care 
providers to civilian trauma centers in order to maintain military 
trauma readiness and to

[[Page S6454]]

support such centers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1042

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1042, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to exclude Segal Americorps Education Awards and 
related awards from income.


                                S. 1110

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from California (Ms. Harris), 
the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) were added as cosponsors of S. 1110, a bill to amend title 
49, United States Code, to provide for private lactation areas in the 
terminals of large and medium hub airports, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1135

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1135, a bill to amend 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to clarify the Federal Pell Grant 
duration limits of borrowers who attend an institution of higher 
education that closes or commits fraud or other misconduct, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1151

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1151, a 
bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a 
nonrefundable credit for working family caregivers.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1169, a bill to amend 
title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide States with an option 
to provide medical assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 
64 for inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at certain 
facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1224

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1224, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to carry out a Community 
Resilience Grant Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1403

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray) and the Senator 
from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were added as cosponsors of S. 1403, a bill to 
amend the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 to establish the 21st Century 
Conservation Service Corps to place youth and veterans in national 
service positions to conserve, restore, and enhance the great outdoors 
of the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1480

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Vermont (Mr. 
Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1480, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to include biomass heating appliances for 
tax credits available for energy-efficient building property and energy 
property.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1503, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th 
anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does 
not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating 
to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill 
to authorize the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of 
the end of World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home infusion therapy 
services temporary transitional payment under the Medicare program.
  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, supra.


                                S. 1754

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1754, a bill to 
reauthorize section 340H of the Public Health Service Act to continue 
to encourage the expansion, maintenance, and establishment of approved 
graduate medical residency programs at qualified teaching health 
centers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1782

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1782, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the definition of 
full-time employee for purposes of the employer mandate in the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act.


                                S. 1787

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1787, a bill to 
reauthorize the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992.


                                S. 1823

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1823, a bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to clarify that houses of 
worship are eligible for certain disaster relief and emergency 
assistance on terms equal to other eligible private nonprofit 
facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1829, a bill to 
amend title V of the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, 
Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1857

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1857, a bill to 
establish a compliance deadline of May 15, 2023, for Step 2 emissions 
standards for new residential wood heaters, new residential hydronic 
heaters, and forced-air furnaces.


                                S. 1859

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1859, a bill to extend the 
moratorium on the annual fee on health insurance providers.


                                S. 1893

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1893, a bill to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify when bank holding 
companies may be subject to certain enhanced supervision, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1899

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1899, a bill to reauthorize and extend funding for 
community health centers and the National Health Service Corps.


                                S. 1901

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1901, a bill to require global economic and political 
pressure to support diplomatic denuclearization of the Korean 
Peninsula, including through the imposition of sanctions with respect 
to the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and any 
enablers of the activities of that Government, and to reauthorize the 
North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004, and for other purposes.

[[Page S6455]]

  



                                S. 1960

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1960, a bill 
to repeal the amendments made to the Controlled Substances Act by the 
Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2016.


                              S.J. RES. 2

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 2, a joint resolution 
proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
relative to limiting the number of terms that a Member of Congress may 
serve.


                               S. RES. 61

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 61, a resolution 
calling on the Department of Defense, other elements of the Federal 
Government, and foreign governments to intensify efforts to 
investigate, recover, and identify all missing and unaccounted-for 
personnel of the United States.


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 75, a resolution recognizing the 100th 
anniversary of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, the largest 
organization of food and nutrition professionals in the world.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 250, a resolution condemning horrific acts of 
violence against Burma's Rohingya population and calling on Aung San 
Suu Kyi to play an active role in ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                              S. RES. 285

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 285, a resolution 
honoring the life and achievements of Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook.

                          ____________________



