

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8288-H8291]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND TECHNOLOGY FOR THE 115th 
                                CONGRESS

         House of Representatives, Committee on Science, Space, 
           and Technology,
                                 Washington, DC, October 26, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     The Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: (Pursuant to clause 2(a)(2) of Rule XI of 
     the Rules of the House of Representatives, I hereby submit 
     the rules of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
     for the 115th Congress for publication in the Congressional 
     Record. These rules were adopted by the Committee on February 
     7, 2017, in a meeting that was open to the public.
       Thank you for your consideration.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Lamar Smith,
                                                         Chairman.


                            Rule I. General

       (a) Application of Rules.
       (1) The Rules of the House of Representatives (``House 
     Rules'') are the rules of the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology and its Subcommittees with the specific 
     additions thereto contained in these rules.
       (2) Except where the term ``Subcommittee'' is specifically 
     referred to, the following rules shall apply to the Committee 
     and its Subcommittees as well as to the respective Chairs and 
     Ranking Minority Members.
       (b) Other Procedures. The Chair may establish such other 
     procedures and take such actions as may be necessary to carry 
     out these rules or to facilitate the effective operation of 
     the Committee.
       (c) Use of Hearing Rooms. In consultation with the Ranking 
     Minority Member, the Chair of the Committee shall establish 
     guidelines for the use of Committee hearing rooms.


           Rule II. Regular, Additional, and Special Meetings

       (a) Regular Meetings. The regular meeting day of the 
     Committee for the conduct of its business shall be on the 
     first Thursday of each month, if the House is in session. If 
     the House is not in session on that day, then the Committee 
     shall meet on the next Thursday of such month on which the 
     House is in session, or at another practicable time as 
     determined by the Chair.
       (1) A regular meeting of the Committee may be dispensed 
     with if, in the judgment of the Chair, there is no need for 
     the meeting.
       (2) The Chair may call and convene, as he considers 
     necessary and in accordance with the notice requirements 
     contained in these rules, additional meetings of the 
     Committee for the consideration of any bill or resolution 
     pending before the Committee or for the conduct of other 
     Committee business.
       (b) Bills and Subjects to be Considered.
       (1) The Chair shall announce the date, place, and subject 
     matter of any Committee meeting, which may not commence 
     earlier than the third day on which Members have notice 
     thereof, unless the Chair, with the concurrence of the 
     Ranking Minority Member, or the Committee by majority vote 
     with

[[Page H8289]]

     a quorum present for the transaction of business, determines 
     there is good cause to begin the meeting sooner, in which 
     case the Chair shall make the announcement at the earliest 
     possible date.
       (2) At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of a 
     meeting for the markup of legislation, the Chair shall cause 
     the text of such legislation to be made publicly available in 
     electronic form.
       (3) To the maximum extent practicable, amendments to a 
     measure or matter shall be submitted in writing or 
     electronically to the designee of both the Chair and Ranking 
     Minority Member at least 24 hours prior to the consideration 
     of the measure or matter, and the Chair may oppose any 
     amendment not so submitted.
       (c) Open Meetings.
       (1) Meetings for the transaction of business and hearings 
     of the Committee shall be open to the public or closed in 
     accordance with the House Rules.
       (2) Any Member who is not a Member of the Committee (or any 
     Committee Member who is not a Member of the Subcommittee) may 
     have the privilege of nonparticipatory attendance at 
     Committee or Subcommittee hearings or meetings in accordance 
     with clause 2(g)(2) of House Rule XI. Such Member may not:
       i. vote on any matter;
       ii. be counted for the purpose of establishing a quorum;
       iii. participate in questioning a witness under the 5-
     Minute Rule, unless permitted to do so by the Chair;
       iv. raise points of order; or
       v. offer amendments or motions.
       (d) Quorums. A majority of the Committee shall form a 
     quorum, except that two Members shall constitute a quorum for 
     taking testimony and receiving evidence, and one third of the 
     Members shall foam a quorum for taking any action other than 
     for which the presence of a majority of the Committee is 
     otherwise required. If the Chair is not present at any 
     meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee, the Vice Chair on 
     the Committee who is present shall preside at the meeting, 
     unless another Member of the Committee is designated by the 
     Chair.
       (e) Postponement of Proceedings.
       (1) Pursuant to clause 2(h)(4) of House Rule XI, the Chair 
     may postpone further proceedings when a record vote is 
     ordered on the question of approving a measure or matter or 
     on adopting an amendment. The Chair may resume proceedings on 
     a postponed vote at any time after reasonable notice.
       (2) When proceedings resume on a postponed question, 
     notwithstanding any intervening order for the previous 
     question, an underlying proposition shall remain subject to 
     further debate or amendment to the same extent as when the 
     question was postponed.
       (f) Time for Statements and Debate.
       (1) Insofar as is practicable, the Chair, after 
     consultation with the Ranking Minority Member, shall limit 
     the total time of opening statements by Members at a 
     Committee meeting to no more than ten minutes, the time to be 
     divided equally between the Chair and Ranking Minority 
     Member. When requested, ex officio Members of any 
     Subcommittee shall also be recognized at a Subcommittee 
     hearing for five minutes each to present an opening 
     statement.
       (2) The time any one Member may address the Committee on 
     any bill, amendment, motion, or other matter under 
     consideration by the Committee will be limited to five 
     minutes, and then only when the Member has been recognized by 
     the Chair. This time limit may be waived by the Chair 
     pursuant to unanimous consent.
       (g) Requests for Recorded Vote. A record vote of the 
     Committee shall be provided on any question before the 
     Committee upon the request of one-fifth of the Members 
     present.
       (h) Transcripts. Transcripts of markups shall be recorded 
     and may be published in the same manner as hearings before 
     the Committee.
       (i) Motion to Go to Conference. Without further action of 
     the Committee, the Chair is authorized to offer a motion 
     under clause 1 of House Rule XXII whenever the Chair 
     considers it appropriate.


                           Rule III. Hearings

       (a) Notice of Hearings.
       (1) The Chair shall publicly announce the date, place, and 
     subject matter of any hearing to be conducted by the 
     Committee on any measure or matter at least one week before 
     the commencement of that hearing. If the Chair, with the 
     concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member, determines there 
     is good cause to begin the hearing sooner, or if the 
     Committee so determines by majority vote, a quorum being 
     present for the transaction of business, the Chair shall make 
     the announcement at the earliest possible date.
       (2) The Chair shall publicly announce a list of witnesses 
     to testify at a hearing as soon as a complete list of 
     witnesses, including those to be called by the minority, is 
     compiled. When practicable, the Chair and the Ranking 
     Minority Member will seek to have a complete list of 
     witnesses compiled at or as soon as practicable after the 
     time that the hearing is publicly announced.
       (b) Witnesses.
       (1) Insofar as is practicable, no later than 48 hours in 
     advance of his or her appearance, each witness who is to 
     appear before the Committee shall file, in printed copy and 
     in electronic form, a written statement of his or her 
     proposed testimony and a curriculum vitae.
       (2) Each witness shall limit his or her presentation to a 
     five minute summary, however additional time may be granted 
     by the Chair when appropriate.
       (3) The Chair, or any Member of the Committee designated by 
     the Chair, may administer oaths to witnesses before the 
     Committee.
       (4) Whenever any hearing is conducted by the Committee on 
     any measure or matter, the Minority Members of the Committee 
     shall be entitled, upon request to the Chair by a majority of 
     them before the completion of the hearing, to call witnesses 
     selected by the Minority to testify with respect to the 
     measure or matter during at least one day of hearing thereon.
       (5) In the case of a witness appearing in a nongovernmental 
     capacity, a written statement of proposed testimony shall 
     include a curriculum vitae and a disclosure of any Federal 
     grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts, or contracts or 
     payments originating with a foreign government, received 
     during the current calendar year or either of the two 
     previous calendar years by the witness or by an entity 
     represented by the witness and related to the subject matter 
     of the hearing. The disclosure shall include the amount and 
     source of each Federal grant (or subgrant thereof), 
     cooperative agreement, or contract (or subcontract thereof) 
     related to the subject matter of the hearing; and the amount 
     and country of origin of any payment or contract related to 
     the subject matter of the hearing originating with a foreign 
     government. Such statements, with appropriate redactions to 
     protect the privacy or security of the witness, shall be made 
     publicly available in electronic form not later than one day 
     after the witness appears.
       (c) Questioning of Witnesses.
       (1) The right to interrogate a witness before the Committee 
     shall alternate between Majority and Minority Members of the 
     Committee. Each Member shall be limited to five minutes in 
     the interrogation of witnesses. No Member may be recognized 
     for a second period of interrogation until each Member 
     present, who wishes to be recognized, has been recognized at 
     least once.
       (2) Notwithstanding clause 1, upon a motion the Chair, in 
     consultation with the Ranking Minority Member, may:
       i. Designate an specified number of Members of the 
     Committee from each party to question a witness for a period 
     of time equally divided between the majority party and the 
     minority party, not to exceed one hour in the aggregate; or
       ii. Designate staff from each party to question a witness 
     for a period of time equally divided between the majority 
     party and the minority party, not to exceed one hour in the 
     aggregate.
       (3) Members of the Committee have two weeks from the date 
     of a hearing to submit additional questions in writing for 
     the record to be answered by witnesses who have appeared 
     before the Committee. The letters of transmittal and any 
     responses thereto shall be included in the hearing record.
       (d) Claims of Privilege. Claims of common-law privileges 
     made by witnesses in hearings, or by interviewees or 
     deponents in investigations or inquiries, are applicable only 
     at the discretion of the Chair, subject to appeal to the 
     Committee.
       (e) Publication of Transcripts. The transcripts of those 
     hearings conducted by the Committee, when it is decided they 
     will be printed, shall be published in substantially verbatim 
     form, with the material requested for the record inserted at 
     that place requested, or at the end of the record, as 
     appropriate. Individuals, including Members, whose comments 
     are to be published as part of a Committee document shall be 
     given the opportunity to verify the accuracy of the 
     transcription in advance of publication. Any requests by 
     those Members, staff, or witnesses to correct any errors 
     other than errors in the transcript, or disputed errors in 
     transcription, shall be appended to the record, and the 
     appropriate place where the change is requested will be 
     footnoted. Prior to approval by the Chair of hearings 
     conducted jointly with another Congressional Committee, a 
     memorandum of understanding shall be prepared which 
     incorporates an agreement for the publication of the 
     transcript.
       (f) Pertinence of Testimony. At the discretion of the 
     Committee, brief and pertinent statements may be submitted in 
     writing for inclusion in the record. The Committee is the 
     sole judge of the pertinence of testimony and evidence 
     adduced at its hearing.


                            Rule IV. Reports

       (a) Bills and resolutions approved by the Committee shall 
     be reported by the Chair pursuant to clauses 2-4 of House 
     Rule XIII.
       (b) A proposed investigative or oversight report shall be 
     considered as read if it has been available to the Members of 
     the Committee for at least 24 hours (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, or legal holidays except when the House is in 
     session on such days).
       (c) Every investigative or oversight report shall be 
     approved by a majority vote of the Committee at a meeting at 
     which a quorum is present. If at the time of approval of such 
     a report a Member of the Committee gives notice of intent to 
     file supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views 
     that Member shall be entitled to file such views.
       (d) Only those investigative or oversight reports approved 
     by a majority vote of the Committee may be ordered printed, 
     unless otherwise required by House Rules.


                          Rule V. Broadcasting

       (a) Whenever a meeting for the transaction of business, 
     including the markup of legislation or a hearing is open to 
     the public, that

[[Page H8290]]

     meeting or hearing shall be open to coverage by television, 
     radio, and still photography in accordance with clause 4 of 
     House Rule XI.
       (b) To the maximum extent practicable, the Committee shall 
     provide audio and visual coverage of each hearing or meeting 
     for the transaction of business in a manner that allows the 
     public to easily listen to and view the proceedings, and 
     maintain the recordings of such coverage in a manner that is 
     easily accessible to the public. Operation and use of any 
     Committee internet broadcast system shall be fair and 
     nonpartisan, and in accordance with clauses 4(b) and (f) of 
     House Rule XI and all other applicable rules of the Committee 
     and the House.


                         Rule VI. Subcommittees

       (a) Committee Jurisdiction. The Committee shall have 
     jurisdiction over such matters as determined by the Chair.
       (b) Subcommittees and Jurisdiction. There shall be five 
     standing Subcommittees of the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology, with jurisdictions as follows:
       (1) Subcommittee on Energy. Shall have jurisdiction over 
     the following subject matters: all matters relating to energy 
     research, development, and demonstration projects therefor; 
     commercial application of energy technology; Department of 
     Energy research, development, and demonstration programs; 
     Department of Energy laboratories; Department of Energy 
     science activities; energy supply activities; nuclear, solar, 
     and renewable energy, and other advanced energy technologies; 
     uranium supply and enrichment, and Department of Energy waste 
     management; fossil energy research and development; clean 
     coal technology; energy conservation research and 
     development, including building performance, alternate fuels, 
     distributed power systems, and industrial process 
     improvements; pipeline research, development, and 
     demonstration projects; energy standards; other appropriate 
     matters as referred by the Chair; and relevant oversight.
       (2) Subcommittee on Environment. Shall have jurisdiction 
     over the following subject matters: all matters relating to 
     environmental research; Environmental Protection Agency 
     research and development; environmental standards; climate 
     change research and development; the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, including all activities related 
     to weather, weather services, climate, the atmosphere, marine 
     fisheries, and oceanic research; risk assessment activities; 
     scientific issues related to environmental policy, including 
     climate change; remote sensing data related to climate change 
     at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA); 
     earth science activities conducted by the NASA; other 
     appropriate matters as referred by the Chair; and relevant 
     oversight.
       (3) Subcommittee on Research and Technology. Shall have 
     jurisdiction over the following subject matters: all matters 
     relating to science policy and science education; the Office 
     of Science and Technology Policy; all scientific research, 
     and scientific and engineering resources (including human 
     resources); all matters relating to science, technology, 
     engineering and mathematics education; intergovernmental 
     mechanisms for research, development, and demonstration and 
     cross-cutting programs; international scientific cooperation; 
     National Science Foundation; university research policy, 
     including infrastructure and overhead; university research 
     partnerships, including those with industry; science 
     scholarships; computing, communications, networking, and 
     information technology; research and development relating to 
     health, biomedical, and nutritional programs; research, 
     development, and demonstration relating to nanoscience, 
     nanoengineering, and nanotechnology; agricultural, 
     geological, biological and life sciences research; materials 
     research, development, demonstration, and policy; all matters 
     relating to competitiveness, technology, standards, and 
     innovation; standardization of weights and measures, 
     including technical standards, standardization, and 
     conformity assessment; measurement, including the metric 
     system of measurement; the Technology Administration of the 
     Department of Commerce; the National Institute of Standards 
     and Technology; the National Technical Information Service; 
     competitiveness, including small business competitiveness; 
     tax, antitrust, regulatory and other legal and governmental 
     policies related to technological development and 
     commercialization; technology transfer, including civilian 
     use of defense technologies; patent and intellectual property 
     policy; international technology trade; research, 
     development, and demonstration activities of the Department 
     of Transportation; surface and water transportation research, 
     development, and demonstration programs; earthquake programs 
     and fire research programs, including those related to 
     wildfire proliferation research and prevention; biotechnology 
     policy; research, development, demonstration, and standards-
     related activities of the Department of Homeland Security; 
     Small Business Innovation Research and Technology Transfer; 
     voting technologies and standards; other appropriate matters 
     as referred by the Chair; and relevant oversight.
       (4) Subcommittee on Space. Shall have jurisdiction over the 
     following subject matters: all matters relating to 
     astronautical and aeronautical research and development; 
     national space policy, including access to space; sub-orbital 
     access and applications; National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration and its contractor and government-operated 
     labs; space commercialization, including commercial space 
     activities relating to the Department of Transportation and 
     the Department of Commerce; exploration and use of outer 
     space; international space cooperation; the National Space 
     Council; space applications, space communications and related 
     matters; Earth remote sensing policy; civil aviation 
     research, development, and demonstration; research, 
     development, and demonstration programs of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration; space law; other appropriate matters 
     as referred by the Chair; and relevant oversight.
       (5) Subcommittee on Oversight. Shall have general and 
     special investigative authority on all matters within the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee.
       (c) Composition of Subcommittees.
       (1) The Chair shall assign Members to the Subcommittees. 
     Minority party assignments shall be made only with the 
     concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member. The Chair shall 
     determine the ratio of Majority Members to Minority Members 
     of each Subcommittee; provided that the ratio of Majority 
     Members to Minority Members on each Subcommittee (excluding 
     any ex officio Member) shall be no less favorable to the 
     majority party than the ratio for the Committee.
       (2) The Chair and Ranking Minority Member of the Committee 
     shall be ex officio Members of each Subcommittee to which 
     such Chair or Ranking Minority Member has not been assigned 
     by the Chair. They are not authorized to vote on Subcommittee 
     matters. Unless they are regular Members of the Subcommittee, 
     they shall not be counted in determining a Subcommittee 
     quorum other than a quorum for taking testimony.
       (d) Referral to Subcommittees. The Chair shall 
     expeditiously refer all legislation and other matters 
     referred to the Committee to the Subcommittee or 
     Subcommittees of appropriate jurisdiction, unless the Chair 
     deems consideration is to be by the Committee. Subcommittee 
     Chairs may make requests for referral of specific matters to 
     their Subcommittee if they believe Subcommittee jurisdictions 
     so warrant.
       (e) Subcommittee Procedures and Reports.
       (1) Subcommittee Chairs shall set meeting dates with the 
     concurrence of the Chair and after consultation with the 
     other Subcommittee Chairs with a view toward avoiding 
     simultaneous scheduling of Subcommittee meetings or hearings 
     wherever possible. No Subcommittee may meet or hold a hearing 
     at the same time as a meeting or hearing of the Committee 
     without authorization from the Chair.
       (2) Each Subcommittee is authorized to meet, hold hearings, 
     receive testimony or evidence, mark up legislation, and 
     report to the Committee on all matters referred to it. For 
     matters within its jurisdiction, each Subcommittee is 
     authorized to conduct legislative, investigative, 
     forecasting, and general oversight hearings; to conduct 
     inquiries into the future; and to undertake budget impact 
     studies.
       (3) Each Subcommittee shall provide the Committee with 
     copies of such records of votes taken in the Subcommittee and 
     such other records with respect to the Subcommittee as the 
     Chair of the Committee deems necessary to ensure compliance 
     with the House Rules.
       (4) After ordering a measure or matter reported, a 
     Subcommittee shall issue a report in such form as the Chair 
     shall specify. To the maximum extent practicable, reports and 
     recommendations of a Subcommittee shall not be considered by 
     the Committee until after the intervention of 48 hours from 
     the time the report is submitted and made available to the 
     Committee. Printed hearings thereon shall be made available, 
     if feasible, to the Committee, except that this Rule may be 
     waived at the discretion of the Chair after consultation with 
     the Ranking Minority Member.


                         Rule VII. Vice Chairs

       (a) The Chair of the Committee shall designate a Member of 
     the majority party to serve as Vice Chair of the Committee, 
     and shall designate a Majority Member of each Subcommittee to 
     serve as Vice Chair of the Subcommittee. Vice Chairs of the 
     Committee and each Subcommittee serve at the pleasure of the 
     Chair, who may at any time terminate his designation of a 
     Member as Vice Chair and designate a different Member of the 
     majority party to serve as Vice Chair of the Committee or 
     relevant Subcommittee.
       (b) The Chair may assign duties, privileges, and 
     responsibilities to the Vice Chairs of the Committee or the 
     various Subcommittees.


                Rule VIII. Oversight and Investigations

       (a) The Committee shall review and study, on a continuing 
     basis, the application, administration, execution, and 
     effectiveness of those laws, or parts of laws, the subject 
     matter of which is within its jurisdiction, including all 
     laws, programs, and Government activities relating to 
     nonmilitary research and development in accordance with House 
     Rule X.
       (b) Not later than February 15th of the first session of 
     the 115th Congress, the Committee shall meet in open session, 
     with a quorum present, to adopt its authorization and 
     oversight plan for submission to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform and the Committee on House 
     Administration in accordance with the provisions of clause 
     2(d) of House Rule X.
       (c) Any investigation undertaken in the name of the 
     Committee shall be approved by

[[Page H8291]]

     the Chair. Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted to 
     infringe on a Subcommittee's authority to conduct general 
     oversight of matters within its jurisdiction, short of 
     undertaking an investigation.


                           Rule IX. Subpoenas

       The power to authorize and issue subpoenas is delegated to 
     the Chair as provided for under clause 2(m)(3)(A)(i) of House 
     Rule XI.


                      Rule X. Deposition Authority

       The Chair may authorize the staff of the Committee to 
     conduct depositions pursuant to section 3(b) of House 
     Resolution 5, 115th Congress, and subject to any regulations 
     issued pursuant thereto.


                       Rule XI. Committee Records

       (a) The records of the Committee at the National Archives 
     and Records Administration shall be made available for public 
     use in accordance with House Rule VII.
       (b) The Chair shall notify the Ranking Minority Member of 
     the Committee of any decision, pursuant to clauses 3(b)(3) or 
     4(b) of House Rule VII, to withhold a record otherwise 
     available, and the matter shall be presented to the Committee 
     for a determination on the written request of any Member of 
     the Committee.


                  Rule XII. Official Committee Website

       The Chair shall maintain an official Committee website for 
     the purpose of furthering the Committee's legislative and 
     oversight responsibilities, including communicating 
     information about the Committee's activities to Committee 
     Members and other Members of the House. The Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee may maintain a similar website for 
     the same purpose, including communicating information about 
     the activities of the minority to Committee Members and other 
     Members of the House.


                      Rule XIII. Committee Budget

       From the amount provided to the Committee in the primary 
     expense resolution adopted by the House of Representatives in 
     the 115th Congress, the Chair shall designate one-third of 
     the budget, after adjustment for the salaries of the shared 
     administrative functions for the Clerk, Printer and Financial 
     Administrator, under the direction of the Ranking Minority 
     Member for the purposes of minority staff, travel expenses of 
     minority staff and Members, and all other minority office 
     expenses.


                Rule XIV. Amendments to Committee Rules

       The rules of the Committee may be modified, amended, or 
     repealed, in the same manner and method as prescribed for the 
     adoption of committee rules in clause 2 of House Rule XI, but 
     only if written notice of the proposed change has been 
     provided to each such Member at least 3 days before the time 
     of the meeting at which the vote on the change occurs. Any 
     such change in the rules of the Committee shall be published 
     in the Congressional Record within 30 calendar days after 
     their approval.

                          ____________________



