

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8152]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           JENNIFER KEPNER WAS MOST COURAGEOUS AND INSPIRING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Ruiz) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the life and legacy of a 
wonderful person, an incredible wife, loving mother, exceptional 
citizen, and one of our Nation's finest servicemembers, Jennifer 
Kepner.
  Jennifer passed away on October 18, 2017, at the young age of 39. She 
lived in my congressional district in Cathedral City, California. My 
heart breaks for her family and loved ones. She is, by far, one of the 
most courageous and inspiring people I have ever met. She put family, 
country, and community before self.
  At 23, Jennifer answered the call to serve our Nation as a medic and 
a staff sergeant in the United States Air Force. She served for 6 
years, from 2001 to 2007, and helped save countless lives on the 
battlefield.
  After being honorably discharged at the rank of staff sergeant, Jenn 
continued her life of service, helping patients in our local 
communities as a radiology technician at Desert Regional Medical Center 
in Palm Springs.
  She led a healthy and full life in so many ways. Her many hobbies 
included CrossFit, hiking, camping with her family, quilting, and even 
painting.
  All who met her remember her love of country, her determined spirit, 
her passion for serving others, and her devotion to family.
  Despite her healthy lifestyle and no other risks, in 2016, Jennifer 
was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, a terrifying diagnosis for 
anyone, let alone a young mother.
  After exhaustive work to investigate the potential causes of her 
cancer, her oncologist linked Jennifer's exposure to burn pits in Iraq 
as the only identifiable and plausible risk for her cancer.
  Burn pits are commonly used by the military to eliminate waste in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. The large burn pit at Balad Air Base in Iraq, 
where Jennifer was stationed for 6 months in 2006, covered 10 acres and 
burned over 240 tons of trash each day, including everything from 
computer parts, medical waste, plastics, and chemicals; some items we 
wouldn't allow to be burned in open air in our neighborhoods here in 
the United States. Yet, in a crowded camp of thousands, our men and 
women in uniform are exposed to giant plumes of black smoke.
  After learning of the potential link between her exposure while she 
served our great Nation and her cancer, she went to the VA seeking 
answers and help. After being denied medical assistance and benefits 
from the VA initially, Jennifer reached out to the advocacy group Burn 
Pits 360 and my office.
  Along with others, and as a team, we helped her navigate the 
complicated VA process, cut through the red tape, and get her the 
benefits that she had earned.
  I visited Jennifer at her home. During our kitchen table talk, she 
told me about her daily struggle raising two small children while 
battling pancreatic cancer. She was brave and had an optimistic 
attitude.
  She told me what it was like living every day in Iraq right next to 
the burn pits--the smoke, the smell, the irritated cough, and the 
sickness that followed.
  Her main concern was to ensure her husband and children were going to 
be okay after she passed. Her second concern was for her fellow 
veterans who, like her, were exposed to burn pits. She wanted to bring 
awareness to what she called ``the Agent Orange of our generation.'' 
Imagine that. During the toughest battle of her life against an 
aggressive cancer, she elevated her family and fellow veterans above 
herself. Her advocacy was for us to prevent future exposure to burn 
pits and serve veterans who have already been exposed.
  That is why we are here, to honor Jennifer and fight for her, her 
family, and fellow veterans. We must find a solution. Unfortunately, it 
is too late for Jennifer, but we can fight in her honor.
  I was there with Jenn; her husband, Ben; children, Aida and Wyatt, at 
her bedside hours before she passed away, and I am honored to call Ben 
my friend.
  On behalf of my wife, Monica, the 36th Congressional District, and 
our entire Nation, we join together as a community to grieve with you, 
Ben, little Aida and Wyatt, and to honor your wife, your mother, and 
the life of Jennifer Kepner. We are awed and humbled by Jennifer's life 
of patriotism and service, and her life and her love of family.
  Jennifer, we thank you for your service and sacrifice.
  Mr. Speaker, Jennifer's memory will never be forgotten.

                          ____________________



