

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9625-H9626]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         INNOVATION IN MINNESOTA'S SIXTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 2017 
recipients of the Greater St. Cloud Development Corporation Innovation 
Award. These four recipients received their awards for their ability to 
incorporate new and inventive ideas into their field.
  I want to first congratulate Mighty Axe Hops in Foley for receiving 
the

[[Page H9626]]

For-Profit Emerging Company Award, which highlights their contributions 
to the hop industry and their efforts to develop an experimental hop 
yard.
  Cybermation of Waite Park received the For-Profit Established Company 
Award for decades of work in digital healthcare technology for seniors. 
Cybermation has been innovating since 1996.
  I also want to recognize the Talahi Community School for receiving 
the Nonprofit Organization Award for the school's commitment to 
building Minnesota's premier adaptive playground in St. Cloud.
  Finally, I want to recognize Jugaad for also receiving a Nonprofit 
Organization Award for their Jugaad Leadership Program in St. Cloud 
that trains members of underrepresented communities with the knowledge 
and skills to produce grassroots change.

  Again, congratulations to all of this year's award winners. I thank 
them for their innovation and contribution to our communities.


                        Capital One's Generosity

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Capital One and its 
executive team and employees for their generosity and their commitment 
to the local communities they serve.
  Capital One has generously contributed to the Boys and Girls Club of 
Central Minnesota to support the organization's mission to enable young 
people to reach their full potential.
  Capital One's $15,000 grant to fund Project Learn helps advance a 
focus on equipping kids with coding skills to meet the needs of the 
future. STEM and tech-related skills are important to the future of our 
Nation, and Capital One is making a significant investment in our 
future leaders.
  Since 2012, Capital One has donated over $80,000 to the Boys and 
Girls Club of Central Minnesota.
  Again, I want to thank Capital One for their commitment to the young 
people of central Minnesota. We are blessed to have them and their team 
in our community and in the great State of Minnesota.


                             Never Give Up

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate an amazing 
constituent of mine for his talent and perseverance. From 2003 to 2008, 
Mick Schultz from Kimball, Minnesota, was a professional snowmobile 
racer.
  In 2008, while competing at a national snocross race, Mike was in a 
snowmobile accident that resulted in the loss of his left leg. After 
such a devastating experience, no one would have thought less of Mike 
if he stopped competing, but Mike Schultz did not give up. Instead, he 
was racing again at the national level in less than 8 months. Over the 
past 10 years, Mike has earned eight gold medals at the X Games in 
adaptive motocross.
  Mike would not allow his accident to keep him from sharing his talent 
and spirit with the world. Mike's talent, however, is not limited to 
racing snowmobiles.
  In 2010, Mike began snowboarding as research for his company, 
BioDapt, which develops prosthetic equipment for athletes. This led him 
to compete as a member of the U.S. Snowboarding team. He is now in his 
fourth season.
  As if all of his other accomplishments are not enough, Mike is now a 
Kellogg's cereal celebrity. Over the years, immensely talented athletes 
have graced boxes of Frosted Flakes, and we are proud that this year 
Mike joins the ranks.
  I am honored to congratulate Mike on all of his incredible 
accomplishments and his recognition by Kellogg's. Mike is proof of what 
a person can accomplish when he confronts life's challenges head-on. 
Mike is a winner and an example to us all. We are proud and honored 
that he is a member of our community.

                          ____________________



