

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6845]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO JIM McCLOUGHAN

  Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, today I wish to reflect on Veterans 
Day and the debt of gratitude each of us owes those who are willing to 
serve our country in our Armed Forces.
  Each year I have the honor of attending Veterans Day events across 
Michigan. At each parade, commemoration, and solemn ceremony, I am 
struck by the profound patriotism of our veterans, but also their deep 
humility and lasting dedication to serving others.
  One amazing example of this is Jim McCloughan of South Haven. In May 
of 1969, he was 23 years old and far from home, serving as a medic in 
Vietnam after being drafted into the Army.
  The orders were to attack Nui Yon Hill. However, Private First Class 
McCloughan and his company were surrounded by more than 2,000 enemy 
fighters. Over 2 days of battle, Private First Class McCloughan put 
himself in danger time and again in order to rescue his fallen 
brothers.
  His head and arm were bloodied by shrapnel and small-arms fire; yet 
he refused to stop. When the battle was over, he had saved the lives of 
10 members of his company.
  Private First Class McCloughan received the Combat Medical Badge, two 
Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with ``V'' device for valor, and the 
U.S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, among other awards. He was a hero in 
every sense of the word. However, he remained focused on only one 
thing: how he could best serve others. That is just what he did.
  Jim McCloughan returned home and taught and coached at South Haven 
High School until retiring in 2008. That might have been where his 
story ended had it not been for his one-time platoon leader, LT Randall 
J. Clark.
  Lieutenant Clark never forgot about Private First Class McCloughan's 
heroism and worked tirelessly to get him the recognition he had earned. 
In 2016, I passed a bill to make Private First Class McCloughan 
eligible for our Nation's highest military honor. In July, I was 
honored to be at the White House as Private First Class McCloughan was 
finally awarded the Medal of Honor by President Donald Trump.
  Jim McCloughan's story is extraordinary, but he is not alone. Across 
our Nation--and throughout our history--people of common backgrounds 
and uncommon courage have put their lives on the line in defense of our 
Nation. Time and again, these brave men and women have come home only 
to continue serving in our schools, churches, elected offices, and 
civic organizations.
  Veterans like Jim owe us nothing and keep giving us everything. It is 
our solemn duty to keep our promises to them. Like Lieutenant Clark, we 
must continue working to provide them all that they have earned, 
whether it is healthcare, education, the chance at a good job, or the 
Medal of Honor.
  ``I'm humbled, very humbled,'' Jim McCloughan said about receiving 
his award. ``And, of course--as many individuals who are blessed to 
receive something like this--I'm receiving it for all of my men.''
  The spirit of service lives on in Jim McCloughan, in Lieutenant 
Clark, and in our veterans in Michigan and across this Nation. On this 
Veterans Day, we remember them, we thank them, and we renew our 
commitment to serving them.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



