

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8029-H8031]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. McHENRY:
       H.R. 4028. A bill to amend the Federal Financial 
     Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 to establish 
     cybersecurity supervision and examination of large consumer 
     reporting agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Ms. SPEIER:
       H.R. 4029. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     make reasonable adjustments to earnings data for graduates of 
     cosmetology gainful employment programs; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. Lee, Ms. Matsui, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Panetta, Mr. 
             Quigley, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Courtney, and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H.R. 4030. A bill to amend the Department of Education 
     Organization Act to codify into law the ``Revised Sexual 
     Harassment Guidance: Harassment of Students by School 
     Employees, Other Students, or Third Parties``, issued January 
     19, 2001, by the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of 
     Education, as in effect on January 1, 2017; the Dear 
     Colleague letter issued April 4, 2011, by the Office for 
     Civil Rights of the Department of Education, as in effect on 
     January 1, 2017; and the ``Questions and Answers on Title IX 
     and Sexual Violence`` issued April 29, 2014, by the Office 
     for Civil Rights of the Department of Education, as in effect 
     on January 1, 2017; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. PEARCE:
       H.R. 4031. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to submit to Congress annual reports on beneficiary 
     travel, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Appropriations, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Franks 
             of Arizona, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gosar, and Mr. 
             Schweikert):
       H.R. 4032. A bill to confirm undocumented Federal rights-
     of-way or easements on the Gila River Indian Reservation, 
     clarify the northern boundary of the Gila River Indian 
     Community's Reservation, to take certain land located in 
     Maricopa County and Pinal County, Arizona, into trust for the 
     benefit of the Gila River Indian Community, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself and Mr. Brown of Maryland):
       H.R. 4033. A bill to reauthorize the National Geologic 
     Mapping Act of 1992; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, 
             and Mr. Palazzo):
       H.R. 4034. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     issue to the Pat Harrison Waterway District a long-term 
     special use permit to develop approximately 8,307 acres of 
     National Forest System land within the Bienville National 
     Forests in Mississippi, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. WEBER of Texas (for himself, Mr. Meadows, and 
             Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 4035. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     repeal certain loan guarantee programs of the Department of 
     Energy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, and Appropriations, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Georgia (for himself and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 4036. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide a defense to prosecution for fraud and related 
     activity in connection with computers for persons defending 
     against unauthorized intrusions into their computers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 4037. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the non-applicability of non-Department of 
     Veterans Affairs covenants not to compete to the appointment 
     of certain Veterans Health Administration personnel; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi):
       H.R. 4038. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to reassert article I authorities over the Department of 
     Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H.R. 4039. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     limit the number of local wage areas allowable within a 
     General Schedule pay locality; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Cummings, Mrs. Davis 
             of California, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Esty 
             of Connecticut, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Harris, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Keating, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. King of New 
             York, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Lowey,

[[Page H8030]]

             Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. McNerney, Ms. McSally, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Sires, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Ms. Speier, Ms. Titus, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Ms. Velazquez, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 4040. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the transportation of horses in interstate 
     transportation in a motor vehicle containing 2 or more levels 
     stacked on top of one another, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. Dent, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 4041. A bill to provide for the retention and service 
     of transgender members of the Armed Forces; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
             Deutch, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. Posey, Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida, 
             Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, 
             Mr. Ross, Mr. Rutherford, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Gaetz, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             Buchanan, and Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 4042. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1415 West Oak Street, in 
     Kissimmee, Florida, as the ``Borinqueneers Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. BLUM (for himself and Mr. Cummings):
       H.R. 4043. A bill to amend the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 to reauthorize the whistleblower protection program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. SCALISE (for himself, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Graves 
             of Louisiana, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Heck, Mr. Walden, Mr. 
             Vela, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. Cohen, 
             Ms. Titus, Mr. Takano, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Dunn, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Johnson of Louisiana, and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 4044. A bill to authorize the minting of a coin in 
     honor of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself and Mr. Tiberi):
       H.R. 4045. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 for shareholder ownership and passive income rules of 
     the personal holding company tax provisions; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Loebsack, 
             Mr. Meadows, and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 4046. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of a military department to make 
     certifications regarding the feasibility of using existing 
     space in property under the jurisdiction of the Department of 
     Defense prior to entering into certain agreements to acquire 
     or lease real property for the use of such military 
     department, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS:
       H.R. 4047. A bill to provide for the identification and 
     prevention of improper payments and the identification of 
     strategic sourcing opportunities by reviewing and analyzing 
     the use of Federal agency charge cards; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
       H.R. 4048. A bill to require institutions of higher 
     education to provide students with statistical employment 
     information, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Mr. Takano, 
             Ms. Titus, Ms. Norton, and Ms. Bordallo):
       H.R. 4049. A bill to establish a grant program to ensure 
     that students in high-need schools have equal access to a 
     quality education delivered by an effective, diverse 
     workforce; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Mr. Pocan, and Mr. 
             Cartwright):
       H.R. 4050. A bill to support research, development, and 
     other activities to develop innovative vehicle technologies, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Evans, 
             Mr. Quigley, and Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 4051. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish a bollard installation grant program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself, Ms. Titus, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Deutch, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Bass, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Himes, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Peters, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Norton, Mr. Khanna, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Carbajal, 
             Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. 
             Payne, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Mr. Nadler, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Langevin, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Crowley, Ms. 
             Pingree, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Sires, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mr. Sherman, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Capuano, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Kennedy, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Richmond, 
             Mr. Schneider, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Bera, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. Adams, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Matsui, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mrs. 
             Demings, Ms. Fudge, and Ms. Roybal-Allard):
       H.R. 4052. A bill to prohibit the transfer or possession of 
     large capacity ammunition feeding devices, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
       H.R. 4053. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     require an independent audit of the cybersecurity practices 
     of certain consumer reporting agencies, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE:
       H.R. 4054. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to require States to submit an annual report on sources 
     of funds used to finance the non-Federal share of 
     expenditures under such title, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 4055. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide certain 
     information when denying claims for traumatic injury 
     protection under Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KIND:
       H.R. 4056. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act and other laws to return 
     primary responsibility for disaster relief to the States, to 
     establish a private corporation to insure States against 
     risks and costs of disasters otherwise borne by the States, 
     and to provide for reimbursable Federal assistance to States 
     for activities in response to disasters, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Financial Services, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself and Miss Rice of 
             New York):
       H.R. 4057. A bill to increase public safety by permitting 
     the Attorney General to deny the transfer of a firearm or the 
     issuance of firearms or explosives licenses to a known or 
     suspected dangerous terrorist; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARSHALL (for himself, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Comer, 
             Mr. Young of Iowa, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Smith of 
             Missouri, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Costa, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Soto, Mr. Arrington, and Mr. 
             Lucas):
       H.R. 4058. A bill to amend the Packers and Stockyards Act, 
     1921, to provide for the establishment of a trust for the 
     benefit of all unpaid cash sellers of livestock, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, and Mr. Poliquin):
       H.R. 4059. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that physicians of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     fulfill the ethical duty to report to State licensing 
     authorities impaired, incompetent, and unethical health care 
     activities; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Larson 
             of Connecticut, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Pallone, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, and Mr. Gutierrez):
       H.R. 4060. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make residents of Puerto Rico eligible for the earned 
     income tax credit and to provide for equitable treatment for 
     residents of Puerto Rico with respect to the refundable 
     portion of the child tax credit; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.

[[Page H8031]]

  

           By Mr. ROSS (for himself, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Luetkemeyer, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Barr, Mr. Sherman, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Royce of California, Mr. Himes, Mr. Lucas, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Pittenger, 
             Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Messer, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Williams, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Poliquin, Mr. Kind, Mrs. Love, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Hill, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia, Mr. Costa, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. 
             Renacci, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Tiberi, and 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 4061. A bill to amend the Financial Stability Act of 
     2010 to improve the transparency of the Financial Stability 
     Oversight Council, to improve the SIFI designation process, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. RUPPERSBERGER (for himself, Mr. Young of Alaska, 
             Ms. Esty of Connecticut, and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 4062. A bill to require the Secretary of Commerce, 
     acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, to establish a constituent-driven 
     program to provide a digital information platform capable of 
     efficiently integrating coastal data with decision-support 
     tools, training, and best practices and to support collection 
     of priority coastal geospatial data to inform and improve 
     local, State, regional, and Federal capacities to manage the 
     coastal region, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 4063. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     maintain a database of information on electricity outages, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 4064. A bill to impose restrictions on the sale of 
     binary explosives, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Takano, 
             and Ms. Schakowsky):
       H.R. 4065. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to establish grants to reduce the 
     incidence of hate crimes, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Lowenthal):
       H.R. 4066. A bill to establish a program to accurately 
     document vehicles that were significant in the history of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Tiberi, 
             Mr. Marchant, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
             Gosar, and Mr. Meadows):
       H.R. 4067. A bill to authorize the extension of 
     nondiscriminatory treatment (normal trade relations 
     treatment) to the products of Kazakhstan; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself, Mr. Ross, and Ms. 
             Titus):
       H.R. 4068. A bill to make necessary changes to the 
     competitive need limitations provision of the Generalized 
     System of Preferences, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 4069. A bill to amend the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to 
     clarify the treatment of authentic Alaska Native articles of 
     handicraft containing nonedible migratory bird parts, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Bacon, 
             and Mr. Panetta):
       H.J. Res. 118. A joint resolution authorizing the use of 
     United States Armed Forces against al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and 
     the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and any associated 
     persons engaged in hostilities against the United States, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H. Con. Res. 85. Concurrent resolution providing for a 
     correction in the enrollment of H.R. 2266; considered and 
     agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H. Res. 569. A resolution providing for the concurrence by 
     the House in the Senate amendment to H.R. 2266, with an 
     amendment; considered and agreed to. considered and agreed 
     to.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself, Mr. Bilirakis, and Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen):
       H. Res. 570. A resolution affirming the historical 
     connection of the Jewish people to the ancient and sacred 
     city of Jerusalem and condemning efforts at the United 
     Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization 
     (UNESCO) to deny Judaism's millennia-old historical, 
     religious, and cultural ties to Jerusalem; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. HANABUSA (for herself, Mr. McNerney, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Peters, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Ms. Lee, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Gomez, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Ms. Speier, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Jayapal, and Mr. Takano):
       H. Res. 571. A resolution recognizing Filipino American 
     History Month and celebrating the history and culture of 
     Filipino Americans and their immense contributions to the 
     United States; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself and Mr. 
             MacArthur):
       H. Res. 572. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Red Ribbon Week during the period of October 23 through 
     October 31, 2017; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. 
             Sessions):
       H. Res. 573. A resolution calling on the President to work 
     toward equitable, constructive, stable, and durable Armenian-
     Turkish relations based upon the two countries' common 
     interests and the United States' significant security 
     interests in the region; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



