

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7946-H7948]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 NATIONAL CLINICAL CARE COMMISSION ACT

  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(S. 920) to establish a National Clinical Care Commission.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                 S. 920

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``National Clinical Care 
     Commission Act''.

     SEC. 2. NATIONAL CLINICAL CARE COMMISSION.

       (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established, within the 
     Department of Health and Human Services, a National Clinical 
     Care Commission (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Commission'') to evaluate and make recommendations 
     regarding improvements to the coordination and leveraging of 
     programs within the Department and other Federal agencies 
     related to awareness and clinical care for at least one, but 
     not more than two, complex metabolic or autoimmune diseases 
     resulting from issues related to insulin that represent a 
     significant disease burden in the United States, which may 
     include complications due to such diseases.
       (b) Membership.--
       (1) In general.--The Commission shall be composed of the 
     following voting members:
       (A) The heads of the following Federal agencies and 
     departments, or their designees:
       (i) The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
       (ii) The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
       (iii) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
       (iv) The Indian Health Service.
       (v) The Department of Veterans Affairs.
       (vi) The National Institutes of Health.
       (vii) The Food and Drug Administration.
       (viii) The Health Resources and Services Administration.
       (ix) The Department of Defense.
       (x) The Department of Agriculture.
       (xi) The Office of Minority Health.
       (B) Twelve additional voting members appointed under 
     paragraph (2).
       (2) Additional members.--The Commission shall include 
     additional voting members, as may be appointed by the 
     Secretary, with expertise in the prevention, care, and 
     epidemiology of any of the diseases and complications 
     described in subsection (a), including one or more such 
     members from each of the following categories:
       (A) Physician specialties, including clinical 
     endocrinologists, that play a role in the prevention or 
     treatment of diseases and complications described in 
     subsection (a).
       (B) Primary care physicians.
       (C) Non-physician health care professionals.
       (D) Patient advocates.
       (E) National experts, including public health experts, in 
     the duties listed under subsection (c).
       (F) Health care providers furnishing services to a patient 
     population that consists of a high percentage (as specified 
     by the Secretary) of individuals who are enrolled in a State 
     plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act or who are 
     not covered under a health plan or health insurance coverage.
       (3) Chairperson.--The members of the Commission shall 
     select a chairperson from the members appointed under 
     paragraph (2).
       (4) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at least twice, 
     and not more than four times, a year.
       (5) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled 
     in the same manner as the original appointments.
       (c) Duties.--The Commission shall evaluate and make 
     recommendations, as appropriate, to the Secretary of Health 
     and Human Services and Congress regarding--
       (1) Federal programs of the Department of Health and Human 
     Services that focus on preventing and reducing the incidence 
     of the diseases and complications described in subsection 
     (a);
       (2) current activities and gaps in Federal efforts to 
     support clinicians in providing integrated, high-quality care 
     to individuals with the diseases and complications described 
     in subsection (a);
       (3) the improvement in, and improved coordination of, 
     Federal education and awareness activities related to the 
     prevention and treatment of the diseases and complications 
     described in subsection (a), which may include the 
     utilization of new and existing technologies;
       (4) methods for outreach and dissemination of education and 
     awareness materials that--
       (A) address the diseases and complications described in 
     subsection (a);
       (B) are funded by the Federal Government; and
       (C) are intended for health care professionals and the 
     public; and
       (5) whether there are opportunities for consolidation of 
     inappropriately overlapping or duplicative Federal programs 
     related to the diseases and complications described in 
     subsection (a).
       (d) Operating Plan.--Not later than 90 days after its first 
     meeting, the Commission shall submit to the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services and the Congress an operating plan 
     for carrying out the activities of the Commission as 
     described in subsection (c). Such operating plan may 
     include--
       (1) a list of specific activities that the Commission plans 
     to conduct for purposes of carrying out the duties described 
     in each of the paragraphs in subsection (c);
       (2) a plan for completing the activities;
       (3) a list of members of the Commission and other 
     individuals who are not members of the Commission who will 
     need to be involved to conduct such activities;
       (4) an explanation of Federal agency involvement and 
     coordination needed to conduct such activities;
       (5) a budget for conducting such activities; and
       (6) other information that the Commission deems 
     appropriate.
       (e) Final Report.--By not later than 3 years after the date 
     of the Commission's first meeting, the Commission shall 
     submit to the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the 
     Congress a final report containing all of the findings and 
     recommendations required by this section.
       (f) Sunset.--The Commission shall terminate 60 days after 
     submitting its final report, but not later than the end of 
     fiscal year 2021.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Olson) and the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Rush) each will 
control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.


                             General Leave

  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks 
and insert extraneous material in the Record.

[[Page H7947]]

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 920, the National Clinical 
Care Commission Act, a bipartisan bill that has received unanimous 
support within both the House and the Senate Chambers. S. 920 is the 
Senate companion to my bill, H.R. 309, which is cosponsored by over 
half of my House colleagues.
  It has this level of support because our Nation faces an epidemic. 
Diabetes or prediabetes affects over 100 million Americans. Nearly one 
in three of our neighbors is affected.
  This legislation will also help many others who are affected by other 
diseases like heart disease, obesity, and many others.
  When I first came to Congress in 2009, it was crystal clear that we 
had a big problem. The benefits of all the Federal research dollars 
going into these diseases were simply not making their way to patients. 
Researchers at the NIH, the CDC, the DOD, the VA, and the FDA weren't 
sharing diabetes research. Who knows? Sharing information may have put 
us on a path to cure diabetes.
  It was clear then, and it is still clear today: we need a laser-like 
approach to improve patient care by pursuing a strong Federal focus on 
research.
  This bill accomplishes that goal by creating a National Clinical Care 
Commission comprised of doctors who specialize in diabetes care for 
patients.
  This commission will have 3 years to strengthen the partnership 
between Federal stakeholders and health professionals who will bring 
hands-on, clinical experience to improve care.
  This is not a new, unending bureaucracy. After 3 years, this 
commission will sunset. In 3 years, it will be gone.
  We have already made such a huge investment of taxpayer dollars into 
research. It is time to leverage that investment into meaningful 
prevention and effective treatment options.
  President Reagan once said: ``There is no limit to the amount of good 
you can do if you don't care who gets the credit.''
  That is why I stand here today in strong support of my bill, which 
became Senator Shaheen's bill, because this bill will help so many 
Americans who are suffering from diabetes.
  So today I ask my colleagues to again help all those who suffer from 
diabetes and other complex metabolic and autoimmune disorders by voting 
for S. 920.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 920, the National Clinical Care 
Commission Act.
  Mr. Speaker, this legislation aims to help improve Federal efforts to 
treat and to prevent metabolic and autoimmune disorders related to 
insulin.
  The most common metabolic disorder in the U.S. is diabetes, which 
affects more than 25 million Americans. Another 86 million Americans 
have prediabetes, a condition associated with an increased risk of 
developing type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
  Mr. Speaker, diabetes takes a huge toll on human health; in fact, it 
is the seventh leading cause of death in our Nation.
  Additionally, Mr. Speaker, all too often diabetes leads to avoidable 
complications, such as blindness, such as limb amputation, and also 
kidney failure.
  In addition to the effects on human health, Mr. Speaker, diabetes 
care makes up a large percentage of U.S. healthcare expenditure.
  Mr. Speaker, currently $1 of every $5 of healthcare cost is spent 
caring for people with diabetes. The proportion of Medicare funding is 
even greater than this. Currently, $1 of every $3 of Medicare 
expenditure is spent caring for people with diabetes.

                              {time}  1500

  Mr. Speaker, that is why it is important to improve the Federal 
efforts that prevent avoidable cases of diabetes and other metabolic 
disorders, and to ensure that all Americans have the treatment and the 
management services necessary to successfully manage this and other 
similar conditions.
  Mr. Speaker, this legislation was previously passed in the 114th 
Congress and again at the beginning of the 115th Congress. I am pleased 
to see that the Senate took action on this legislation to support 
passage of this bill into law.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on S. 920, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I yield as much time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Burgess).
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of S. 920, the 
National Clinical Care Commission Act, sponsored by Senator Shaheen.
  This legislation has been around for a while. It has been championed 
in the House by our good friend and fellow Texan, Representative Pete 
Olson, as H.R. 309. This bill has strong bipartisan support. It passed 
this House unanimously earlier this year.
  Diabetes and other endocrine disorders have been a great cost burden 
on Medicare and, in fact, our Nation's healthcare system in general. 
Thirty million Americans have diabetes, 84 million Americans have 
prediabetes, and three out of four Americans on Medicare have diabetes 
or prediabetes. And $1 out of every $3 Medicare spends is spent on 
diabetes.
  This bill will establish a clinical care commission to evaluate and 
recommend solutions for better coordination and use of Federal programs 
aimed at improving care for people with diabetes and other related 
endocrine disorders. This commission will be tasked with identifying 
gaps where new approaches are needed, eliminating duplication across 
Federal agencies, and leveraging the Federal resources and tools 
available to enhance the quality of patient care.
  I am confident their work will improve the lives of tens of millions 
of Americans living with diabetes and with other endocrine disorders 
while beginning the process of reducing the staggering impact of these 
diseases.
  Mr. Speaker, I certainly want to thank and commend our colleague, 
Representative Pete Olson, for spearheading this important initiative. 
I want to thank him for bringing it to the floor of the House as many 
times as he has. This has been a lengthy process, but today, with the 
passage of this bill, we are voting on final passage, and this bill 
will be sent to the President's desk for signature. Mr. Speaker, Mr. 
Olson's long and arduous journey now will be completed with the passage 
of this bill, and we should all look forward to that.
  Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Loebsack).
  Mr. LOEBSACK. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Illinois (Mr. 
Rush) for yielding time to me today to speak on this important bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise in strong support of S. 920, the 
National Clinical Care Commission Act. S. 920, as was mentioned 
already, creates a commission comprised of clinical endocrinologists, 
other physician specialists, primary care physicians, healthcare 
professionals, patients, and representatives from the Federal agencies 
most involved in diabetes care.
  The commission is charged with making recommendations to streamline 
Federal investments in diabetes, to improve the coordination and 
clinical care outcomes for people with diabetes, prediabetes, and other 
insulin-related metabolic and autoimmune diseases.
  Passage of this legislation will help the Nation undertake more and 
innovative approaches to diabetes and its disease complications, for 
which the United States spends some $322 billion annually.
  I urge the Secretary also to move expeditiously to set up the 
commission so it can begin its important work as soon as possible. 
Clinical training and expertise in diabetes and other insulin-related 
diseases will be needed to lead the commission, and it is my hope that 
a clinical endocrinologist will be chosen to serve as the chairperson 
of the commission. I think that is very important.
  With a clinical endocrinologist as chair and representatives from 
other medical specialities, healthcare professions, and patient 
advocacy groups, serving alongside with Federal diabetes experts, the 
commission created under S. 920 will help to ensure that new innovative 
medications and devices are

[[Page H7948]]

effectively translated to the clinical setting for the benefit of 
patients. That clinical translation is so important.
  The work of the commission will help improve the lives of the tens of 
millions of Americans living with diabetes while simultaneously 
beginning the process of reducing the staggering impact of diabetes and 
its disease complications and the dollars that, as has already been 
mentioned, are associated with that.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank in particular Representative Olson for 
his persistence, as was already mentioned, and for sponsoring this bill 
in the House. I was very happy to lead the way as the Democrat on this 
side of the aisle on this bill, and for my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle who supported this bill that enabled House passage of the 
legislation earlier, as was mentioned, and now we are finally going to 
get it over the finish line. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Olson 
in particular for his efforts on this.
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Iowa for those kind 
words, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, again, short and sweet. This is a good bill. 
It is the first step towards actually funding a cure for diabetes. 
Maybe we will do that. By the way, it leaves here and will be signed 
into law before this week ends. I urge my colleagues to vote ``aye'' 
when this vote comes up for a final passage vote.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Olson) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, S. 920.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



